ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u1	Madam President. As the head of minor opinion, I'm going to start by going through it before I talk about how this case may have been facing me, at least this week it's been in progress, but especially today. Today, the language has been very impressive. I'm now reading the committee opinion so I'll officially finish it, so I can assume that what I have to say, by permission of the president, I have something else to say: A general and educational committee has had to treat a bill to correct a change in the law of equal positions and equally rights of women and men with subsequent changes. - Here's a long list of our guests, which I think has been covered thoroughly so that I let her go. The bill suggests changes in the law of equal positions and equal rights of women and men, to the obligatory duties of businesses and institutions, with a average of more than 25 employees per year, in order to obtain a special witness from a professional official. The bill assumes that the Agency has acquired professional skills in a private and comparable field or in the European Economic Areas, in accordance with Article 4. Regulation No. 929/2014 of certification of the company's equal labour systems and institutions on the basis of the standard IST 85:2012. It is then assumed that by the hearing, companies and organizations can work against the sex pay of their employees. In the reviews, there were many criticisms about the bill. In particular, from the National Standard Council, who mourned with the Council and has now sent the General and Education Committee - or, indeed, the entire Council - a letter stating that the adjustment of the majority of the committee, in fact, has actually been made that the standards of the standard are published in a Regulation equivalent to the Council's holdings of the Council's holdings holdings. The Article of the bill refers to the government's declaration of policy since January 10, 2017, which requires that equality in a broad sense be an integral part of a just and reasonable society and that there is a heavy level of equality in the labour market. It also requires that, in order to match pay due to sex, companies with 25 employees or more take up the same amount of pay. The bill under discussion was distributed on April 4th. 1st. about the end of it. The case went to the General and Education Committee on April 26th. A smaller part of the General and Education Committee points out that the bill was submitted after the deadline specified in Article 3. Thirty-seven. Law of Congress, No. 55/1191. In that case, there was a very limited amount of time for such a significant change. The bill suggests that organisations and companies where 25 or more workers work are obliged to conduct a equally pay contract, but this will be done in a way that the employer confirms that the enterprise or organisation meets the standards of the local Council of IST 85:2012. It has not been customary in this country to legalize standards in the way this is done, i.e. that companies or institutions will be legally obliged to comply with them on the current day-to-day fines. In the case of guests and the reviews received by the commission, this arrangement has received some criticism. It's one of the best comments of Iceland's Standard Council. The Council of Directors is the owner of the standard proposed to be registered, but in spite of this, the Office does not feel that it is not right to obligatory company and organisations to implement the vacancy. Locals are generally intended for optional use and are more likely to provide solutions to companies and institutions than to be mandatory resources. Witnessing in the equally paid system of IST 85:2012 is one solution that companies and institutions can use to demonstrate that they are legal, but they do not have to - and should not - be the sole option. Interestingly, the person who composed the vacancy would object to the legalization proposed here. The standard criticism also notes that there was no consultation with the Council for the donation of the bill. It has to be a sign of unskilled work that has not been consulted by the standard author who is to be legalized before the legislation was submitted. It must also be viewed accordingly. Twenty-seven. The constitution shall be published. On the way to publication and implementation of law to the law. The visitor's study showed that in order for this bill to become a law, it must ensure that the standard of the person referred to here will be published publicly so that it is available to all without charge. A possible solution to the situation has been established by the Minister's Regulation, which will be supported by the laws proposed by the bill. Things have changed, as we have seen. Since this Regulation is not available for discussion of the bill, it must be considered a administrative uncertainty that has not been fully elucidated. It is the assessment of a smaller part of the General and Education Committee that this uncertainty must be fully explained before the bill becomes a law. Moreover, it has now been found that more of the General and Education Committee did not agree with the Council when it proposed that the requirements of the standard should be published in the Minister's Regulation. Council considers it to be the violation of the Council's ownership rights by the publication of the standard of Regulation, in particular its author's right to the standard on which the equally pay certificate is based. Earlier this year the value of Regulation No. 365/2017 of certification of the company's equal labour systems and institutions on the basis of the standard IST 85. According to them. Section 4. The Regulation receives a candidate's profession in the private and comparable area of the European Economic Area. A candidate who witnesses the equally paid system should be professionally validated by Article 4. According to Article 5. The Regulation is an expert authority under IST ISO/IEC 17021 allowed to conduct the assessments and record the company's equivalent labour system as set up by IST 85 to 31 December 2019. It has been observed that the promissory department of a private secret office is not equipped to handle the increased pressures that will follow the legislation of the bill. The Ministry has not completed work on criteria that should be considered in standard practice. They should respond to the impotence of the professional management department by allowing the carers to practice assessments under the law on the condition that they have applied for prognosis, but not before being authorized to be witnesses. When that is the case, it is not possible to say that such Witnesses will be treated professionally or that government agencies are ready to take on the work that the bill puts on them. As part of the Commission, there was concern about the lack of well - educated experts behind such a pay bill, and the assessment will be of limited value to the mental factors that make the work of men and women prone to gender. If unskilled certications are allowed to make assessments of the company's equal labour systems, the results of the bill may be paid the same amount of pay for the same job, but there is no guarantee that the same pay will be paid for similar jobs. A major part of the World Health and Education Committee has proposed a change to Iceland's Management Board as the first person to conduct a equally paid contract under the legal bill. The cost of this project has not been analysed, but a smaller part of the General and Education Committee considers it necessary for cost assessment to be done before the legislation of the adjustment. It should be noted that the lesser part supports the purpose and aim of the bill to establish and maintain equality and equal opportunities for women and men, thus equaling the position of the sex in all areas of society. One of the basics of equality is the common population in the sex world. I'm sorry, this case should be moved to the 3rd. and votes when it becomes clear that the matter is not nearly ready to be taken care of. Time to discuss the matter has been very limited and many of its features are still blurred. There has been no grammatical evidence to argue that this case must be resolved. This procedure has led to a failure to view changes that had led to the success of the bill in the approval of all its members. If the bill is to reach the target, it is necessary that the matter be done well and at peace. If the bill is legal at this point, it will be considered unlikely to reach its objective. The lesser part suggests that the bill will be referred to the government. It's under the name of the writer and Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson. But now I'm going to go to this exciting turn of events today, a respectable president. On the contrary, it has now been shown to be the highest. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities seems to have been held, however, is not a public party in the highest sense. The minister had put in it. Therefore, the adjustment proposal is made by the majority of the General and Education Committee that the standard or requirements should be published in a Regulation. What this means is, in fact, that here we are setting a law on the fact that an enterprise should follow a particular standard which includes their detailed demands that it be handled without having free access to this standard and without consultation with the Standards on how to proceed with all of this, whether it is possible to go over the standard and to find that standards are used. Of course, equally -- if it's well done, it's the best thing to do. But we in the memory of the General and Education Committee, i.e. Pirats and I, we resist this case because we don't feel it's finished. We don't see the perplexing evidence to rush this through the council right now, 15 minutes at the end of the council, or we could say five minutes to, simply to have a list at the highest level. Minister who wants to finish this case now, even if it's not ready. It has been observed that there are a number of problems that may arise in order to ensure that this case is handled well. I think it is very important that it is clear how this will be done and clearly explained to companies what their expectations are. And that the National Institute of Professional Science knows exactly how to function a company in this process and where it has also been observed in the case that the criteria for practice are still being implemented by the Ministry. In this regard, we were prepared to pass this issue through even though we were not at all ready when it was said that at least there would be a public record of the requirements laid on the shoulders of 1,100 plus companies in this country. Then it turns out that the highest. A minister has no authority to publish these requirements. If he had failed, it would have involved reimbursement of the Standard Council's Authorship. It's natural, isn't it, Madam President? Now, more of the General and Education Committee has given them orders to the highest level. Minister to negotiate with Iceland's Standard Council for some kind of access to this standard. We do not know what kind of access, and we do not know how much it will cost. It's naturally just that the costs for the Ministry and Management Board and all the official organisations that will have to go through this evaluation have not been made if more of the General and Education Committee is allowed to follow up. It is also surprising that we are passing an unpublished check to the Ministry of Health to negotiate with what we now know is a private contract for this standard. I think it puts the legal security into substantial uncertainty, i.e. We don't know how well people are allowed to do this. Maybe it'll just get a discount, maybe it'll just get to see it for a while or some temporary access will be available. None of that is possible. Yet, the matter should be forced through the council right now. The reason I'm worried about this is simply because it's not enough for how this professional assessment of the equally paidness of the work should be performed. It is not well enough that those persons who are authorized to pay equally for business purposes are able to have knowledge, experience, understand this standard, and not only an understanding of it but also an understanding of the broad context behind the pay of the sex. That was a fine example. It is one thing to give equal pay for the same job, i.e. Just the exact same job title, but there's nothing in the bill that will help us see if they're paying the same amount of money for similar jobs. At least not if we don't make sure there's a proper and professional witness person involved in this. If the case is as poorly prepared as it is now and goes on and is not properly understood how this is going to happen, then the concern that has been presented at the Commission meeting that will not be significant will enable experts to make this assessment all together, that it will be a simple whitewash for companies who will be able to demonstrate their reasons that this job is different from the other job, and, as a result, it is all okay to pay for it. It is very easy to explain the amount of pay involved in this system, if it is a committed offense. In view of this, I feel that it is very important to have the work done properly. My feeling for me to work this case right now as it's worked and to get it done this way through the council, and put it all too late, and don't give it enough time, and don't consult the Council of Standards, which have the right to the standard, and are not prepared with the institutions to make sure it works well - I can't see that there's a critical reason to agree with it right now. I don't understand why it can't wait until the fall. Except just to finish some kind of check list... that there's going to be some sort of case coming out of the way. As far as I can remember, this was supposed to be the first assembly case on the project. I didn't see any better than that. A minister has spent more time traveling abroad, beating his breasts out of this equally pay contract at foreign conferences, rather than working it closely with members of the council and with those involved. It was too late, and it didn't even give a month to go through this at the committee meetings. It may also be noted that the committee never had access to this standard while visiting the committee. So we had nothing to compare with when members of the committee were discussing the subject of this standard. Because just like the companies that have to put up with this place, we had no access to it. It was one of the economists of a newspaper or rather a booklet to wander among members of the Parliament who were studying the matter. Of course, this matter is important. That is why it is important to do well. In any case, it takes several years to introduce this standard. It will take no months for anyone to work better and at peace with all those involved and so that everyone will like this idea in their expanded form. Because, of course, the goal is good. Absolutely. But I and we don't find that it will be achieved by pressing the matter through like this and by failing to work it properly. So we suggest we wait until the fall and the highest. Minister will do it a little better while you're at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u2	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a law on equal positions and equal rights of men and women, or equally pay. The equally paid witness and the standard it is based on are important tools for promoting equality in the labour market. But let us be absolutely clear that they are nothing more than that. They are tools for dealing with a small part of the workforce and for extending the share of the sexes there. This is not a magic solution to overcome a sex market, not a way to ensure that men are increasingly involved in caring for them, and women are increasingly involved in working as workers, not a magic solution to achieve actual pay equals in the country, we need much more measures than a simple implementation of the standard of IST 85. That action would surely be expensive - but worth it, for we would live with a society that would be better in every way, if we had wiped out the sexual amount of pay and the sex - trade market. But this is a step in the right direction. Though there is little, we rejoice, as in all the steps of the steps that are in the right direction. We do not know the exact impact of this issue when it is fully implemented by the 1,180 companies and institutions discussed in this regard, but the results will be good from the comments of those who know how to judge. The result is not necessarily good because this will lead to equality at the workplace but because all the results of the work at work will be more careful. It will be certain that the objective of the work will have to be done, that pay decisions are justified and documented, that there are systems of decisions that are overemphasized, but randomly never more than that, on average, the reward will be higher than the male side of the female side. Although we have an introduction to the equally paid position, only to attack the compartment that each working group fills in each company, it's something. They will then be small friends of remuneration. So when this is up and running, let's just try to hit the sensibilities system properly in a labour market and get on with the actual remuneration rights. As we have seen, this case is one of the main challenges of restoration, the highest quality. Minister of Equal Opportunities. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the matter has come to the council as unashamed as it can be. It would have been nice to get this case ready, to work with those who are known in the community, and preferably to get it sooner, so we here at the council would have had more time to process the comments we had made. We just finished our first committee opinion on May 25, that's not long ago. By then, we had guests for just over a week. I say for myself that I would have wanted to give this matter more time. But that's the way it is. We don't always have all the time we wanted. What we can do with such a situation is to make time available for them. It has been achieved by us who are behind the majority of world and educational committees. I don't think I'm lying to anyone when I say that everyone who claims the majority opinion is that the case is a problem that they're under orders for the council. In fact, I think the Minister has established it in the 1st. The matter here at the Senate Hall is that when there was experience in the introduction, when the wheels were turning, we would start to see where to embalm and where to adjust and where to make the engine more successful. Therefore, it would also be the induction step so that, on the first step, the largest companies and institutions will come and bring in, but it is also those people who have the infrastructure to which the standard calls. These are enterprises, which would like to have some kind of document class and human resources management, some of the infrastructure that can be built on to introduce the job evaluation system that involves the equally pay contracting process. Then you can base on the experience when smaller people come up with a year later and even smaller years later. In fact, the largest members could even pass the same pay of blood today. We were contacted by the HR manager of Reykjavík's Department of Energy, which described a tremendous ambition there in town to eliminate sexual amounts of money and not to do it by some kind of rifle but, rather, to be honest. PGE is a workplace in which people are highly divided by gender on different jobs. In addition, the energy industry is a very sexual part of the workforce. There's a real hurry to pick up. PGE is reminded me that seven times I've had the same amount of pay done on her, and I think it would fly through both the VR witnesses that was going on about a year, and probably also the equal wage position, but it has chosen not to do so by now. The VR witness she did not want because it had been a false result. PGE observed that it had made it through the VR testimony and could have had the time of non-general pay, although there could have been gender differences from the source of the sex pay difference in the Agency. And, as an honest institution, PGE just said, "No thanks, we don't want that fake plunger. I hope most companies and institutions think about this, when it comes to even-employment, because I'm worried that the equally paid witness, if not careful, can become a whitewash. PGE could have made it so easy to get through the VR witness knowing that within the OR, there was a sexual difference in pay. What we in the greater part of the General and Education Committee made up of changes in the Committee's committee that is here first turned to transparency; turned to the fact that the text in this forbidden book, far too few senators have handled and still fewer people in the community, the text of IST 85, was made quite accessible, or the core of it, at least. This is not what we wanted to get a company out of the pressure of having to kick out a ten thousand bucks to get into the mood, but that the public could see what the law is about to be set up at the council. So we were surprised when we received a message from the Standards that the adjustment of the majority of the section, located here in a committee party on a deck. 992, possibly cutting the standard, despite the development of the change in proposal with the Ministry of Health. It's work I don't appreciate. This conjunction between the Ministry and Congress needs to be arranged. We need to be able to trust that the information we receive from the Ministry is successful. In this case they did not. That is why we are faced with the prospect of being here with a follow - up opinion on deck. 983 since we take back this, of course, our suggestion that the content of the standard is published in the Regulation. But in this subsequent article, it says that the majority stress that the location will be secured, but it will not be done by putting it in law texts here and now, but by placing down the Ministry and Local Council and making a solution so that the public can enter this text. I'm stressing that this is going to work. And start before the law takes effect. Another factor that we have in the greater part of the General and Education Committee suggests changes is that the Board of Management is at the beginning of those entering the standard. At the same time, the Council enters as one workplace, one of the 500 people's workplace, but not the 11 chambers it sometimes wants to become. By doing this, we will ensure that the execution of the European Commission will be carried out on its own skin first of all the possible maladies of this law. Then it should be easy for a minister to have ideas of reforming the law in order to submit to the council. There will not be any response here because we also in the greater part suggest that the Council be in the first session. Then, not the part that we are the elected agents who submit to other laws to the labour market, but most other people think they dozens of committees, senators, and other employees working at the workplace, at the General Assembly, so that the induction will be by the legislature and the executional authority of the forward forces with all the largest companies and institutions of the country. Then I guess it won't be long before we get a change from the top. Minister to correct the situation. It has been mentioned, and I have a few words to say, that the role of an equal rights firm may be too small, as the bill is proposed. I think it can be considered in a larger context. I think the role of sensors also needs to be clear and strong with those working on the introduction of the standard. The certification agencies that are going to need to take a company need to know more than just read out the raw pay, since it takes more knowledge to be able to dig down on argument support for the pay decisions and trace them down so that the remuneration of the remuneration will be apparent. It is not the only ones to be seen by the numbers. It takes a great deal of expertise. This, for example, is a reference to what PGE mentioned to us which I think must be counted among the members of Iceland, the longest available in the introduction to a similar system, and here it is suggested to legalize. In fact, even there people feel that the amount of wages they earn is so subtle that they, the most conscious people in the country, can fall asleep on guard, must constantly be alert to fall off the wrong side of the payload. It would be possible to talk about this much longer. I suppose we'll discuss this again materially, certainly at the next council, if not the next one, and even be having this case for regular discussion throughout this term while the introduction reveals more and more challenges and ways to improve legislation. I'd like to mention, however, that I've made my suggestion to the General and Education Committee, and it was well recommended, that in the early autumn, if in October, the Ministry will be called to the Commission and will explain how the law is being introduced, how to negotiate with the Council of Standards, which in the greater part of which we will be expected to act by the law here at the spring council. I don't want us to be back in the situation we stood for all day, to be in some old age conference between the Ministry and the Local Council, and who can do anything about the standards, a surrogacy I thought should have been finished before the case was placed in the General Parliament. I thought it was solved by the Ministry, when changes were made for more part, but for some reason, after all this process, we found ourselves in a situation where the Ministry's non-communications and uncivilized practices almost killed the case today, this flagship of resurvection almost died his lord today because the minister made a conflict of action. We on the General Information and Education Committee are going to help the Minister out of that problem. I consider this matter to be in the intensive care of the Committee this fall and even longer. [[The president calls.]] Given that we're going to accept it here this spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u3	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a good speech. I agree on most of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator. I am, along with a member of the council, at a leading committee party with a motion that has to do with the issue at hand. At the end of his talk, a member of the council went over to review a change proposal that a minister can by law assign another government or Iceland's Council of Released Standards, IST 85, which actually contains the work done by this project. The majority also point to the Ministry of Health in consultation with Iceland's Standards to negotiate access to the locator, the bill being legal. This says in the leading committee, and it is a spontaneous change, I believe, in this matter. In particular, two points were made in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator I'd like to ask in, but first, I'd like to agree with. A senator says that this is an instrument, an enormous instrument. I could easily stand here and recommend all the managers to use this tool because it is a powerful control tool and like all other management devices and quality systems only to promote the activities of institutions and companies. Hv. A senator spoke of the matter as being neglected and had needed more time. Why is that? A senator on the majority wing of the committee? Why didn't he go the way Piratars did, boy? paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir, who had a special opinion and a reference proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u4	Madam President. When approved here at the council, cases are not ready to be released. As if our adjustment in the greater part seems unchanged - i.e. I'm confident that the introduction to this standard will be good. I trust that those who are involved will be quick and reliable. I don't think there's any harm in making this case the way it is. If I thought there were such problems, I wouldn't have supported the majority opinion. I don't think it's the best way to make songs, though. I don't think it's the kind of case that one of the administration groups put in full priority in his campaign and in his administrative business. I wouldn't lose sleep at that, but I would if I was in Lurison, that I'd come here with a case that had, for example, been held here. Forget to assume that the standard was available, and since all parties had not been contacted at the local standard contract in their time, they will be included in the presentation. I'm surprised by this lack of communication. But on the committee, we managed to talk to all these parties. All those who have been working on the 2008 standard recommend that it be legalized and as early as possible to shape the integration of all these organisations and institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A clear answer from a senator. In fact, more questions are raised, so it will take time to develop, especially when companies and institutions start working with and through that system. It won't be a problem, as was the case in the speech of two. A senator, for the companies and institutions who already have quality and testimony in other areas. Then there will be more easy documentation and indicators in documents that can be somewhat dependent on the function. It's a good thing to work on the standards, but it can become a huge, big deal for smaller companies who don't already have these tools and tools and this process or that knowledge inside and even have to hire them with expertise in this field. I'm just a little worried about that. Now, I don't live so well, because I come in as an assistant to the committee, to have gone through all this process, to have all the guests, and to listen to how these have gone into the praxizes of visitors. But, hey. A senator came into it, saying that the committee's reaction was to make time work on the case. Is then what? For those working with the standard, a senator to refer to the changes in the motions involved in the time frame of the issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u6	Madam President. When I said that we had made the arrangements for time working with the case, I meant that we had put in the motor that would draw it in the right direction rather soon. The mission is that the Ministry as a whole and the General will be in the first cycle of induction to find them on their own where to fix this process. As a result, contributions will be made to a council quickly and safely. We will then be able to correct the laws as necessary. It is possible to approach issues from either direction. In Iceland, we have often adopted international contracts, so we start with spending 10 to 15 years meeting all their requirements, and then we validate them after that period. But last fall, the council chose to go the wrong way through the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, in which it was validated without any demands in the administration. It was done, for example. to put real pressure on the administrations so that it will not take these 10-115 years to build up all the blocks needed to finally validate the government, but it will take a much shorter time. I think this approach, to turn the case into a bridge and then to fix it when we encounter a problem, can do the same if it's not more effective than allowing the case to improve with several traffic within the council before it is finally approved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u7	Madam President. Now I'm one of those people who's always had a bad case of this matter. I fear that in this way, validate a equally paid witness is done solely to impair and damage the labour union of workers in a labour market, that this makes it difficult for them because when they present themselves with the indications that there may be some difference between sexes, the company will be able to say: No, see, at the end of this testimony, to someone's fulfilled laws and something. It is quite possible that this standard, which actually does not work out that companies have equal salary, but to ensure that jobs are grouped down in some way so that they can be compared, produces the right results, but I think that it is not completely safe. There is also a big difference between a selective standard in which people are encouraged to apply it to what some might be inclined to ignore by formal but really being baloney. However, I decided to rely on the committee's return and to do well in this case, to make sure that there would be a degree of transparency, and that the standards of the case would be settled. But let men know, after this day, the transparency is gone. We're not allowed to see the situation. We don't really get to do anything. We are in a position to discuss this when the clock is ten minutes short in one night and for an empty assembly hall. There's not one man in here. [[Up front.]] A few in the side room, of course. But the transparency is gone. We'll talk it over in a hurry and at night. In view of the fact that the transparency has gone, I feel that the whole matter could be held back. I say that because this transparency was the only guarantee that the public would know what was in that law. There seems to be a situation where everyone but Pirats accepts to do bad things and it's enough to be informed that the matter is defective, then it's okay to accept it, hoping that it will be fixed in the future. That's bullshit. Laws are not wine, they shall be no better with age. It is not that laws can be stored and hoped for the best. Especially since we're talking about a standard that can develop and develop so that no one knows where we don't see it, we don't know what's going on. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Yet, the Ævarsdóttir Övarsdóttir's challenge earlier led to a certain conversation today so that the transparency was taken away. That conversation was about penance. The conversation was that the Standards of Standards should be written to this standard and had not been negotiated, not being followed by what would be normal, making a deal with the Council on publication of the standard before we got to the position of arguing about it on the day before the Senate ended. But knowingly, a solution came out of the pot. That solution is a little bit interesting. When I discussed this in the tunnel with various members of the council, it was found that there are nine other laws in force where a standard is required. That means that in nine other places of law today, we don't really know what's in them. It's rather interesting and even scary. Some of this is not very serious. It's, like, a... standard review and the like. Of course, we should be able to discern the standards involved. Regarding writers, I feel that the Author's right to standards are strange, and it doesn't work to make a possession of these things. Perhaps there is sufficient occasion to discuss the position of authors in a large context later, but not when the clock is becoming one in the night. However, there are certain standards that are widely used in the world, much more than this standard of equally pay. Then I'm thinking about standards from IIETF and V3c e.g. These standards have always been opened. They've built a large system so big that we all use it every day. This is to form the standard for html that makes web sites possible, e.g. The status on IP that makes the network possible. These standards are open, but these were not the first places that did these things. Other standards were involved, but they did not survive. They didn't last. They didn't stand up for the tooth of time, because no one came into them. No one could read them. Happily, no one ever thought of trying to put them in law. I find it surprising that the best suggestion that comes from Uphold and this government on how to encourage people to follow standards should not be opening up, so that they are available to everyone, but to follow a standard that no one can read except pay Standard Council 10 of you. K. How would it be if all the standards in Iceland were open? If we were to change the standards so that standards were published publicly, they could still have the author's, but in the same way we expect other data to be published publicly? It's, for example. Unable to obtain speeches from the General's Web site and change and publish it, you can say: The institutions still maintain their authorship, but it is required by the State that these standards are published, otherwise they are not considered to be good standards by law. Here is a solution that might open up, not just that equally pay-off will become something that is selective and that even those who are encouraged to follow the standards in a reasonable way, but it can be done to other standards. What would the world be like if we, e.g. Did they know exactly what was the standard for accountants? I've never seen that standard. I'd be curious to know what it says. It is full of other standards that we should be able to examine completely. Experience with the Internet, of the standards that come from IETF and V3c, has shown that standards open are good standards not only because they are usually better written but also because the best standard is the one you have at the hand you see, which you understand, which you know how to use. I can't see that this case is properly worked so that we can be at peace with it. It has been pointed out to many discrepancies. We should turn this down for a while, especially because the transparency has gone away. We should give the highest. Justice Minister this summer to negotiate with the Standards for the release of this event. Who knows, unless the government could do the good work of negotiating with the Council of Standards for the publication of all standards. To give them the time would be advice, that would be good advice, that would be wise, because then the conclusion will be that we can at least be happy, convinced that we are not fixing another standard that no one will see except paying the Council of 10 you. K. It may not be a lot of money for people who run a 25-man business, but for the people who work in these companies or people in town who are interested in starting a 25-man business, it's more of a business and perhaps not something more important about them to buy. In fact, now I got it as a suggestion from one of the highest levels. Minister, without saying a name to the person, I would come here in a pit and just read up the post, because then he would be in the Senate, and as a result, he would be open with some kind of advice. [[Up front.]] Is that it? Yes? All right. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson tells me that he has read it. [[Up front.]] - In part, well. Nevertheless, we should not go to such activities to open our standards. That shouldn't be necessary. What to do in this case is to take this case, wait until the fall, finish the contracts in summer, fix the lines on the bill, and put them back in the fall so that everyone can be happy. I think everybody can be happy. It's a good thing. This may be a conservative way from a so - called liberal class, another matter. I didn't mean to put their lines in the way they set their course. But we can settle this. That's the right way. Let's open our standards, take this case in the fall, and let's not do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u8	A respectable president. I would like to discuss only the changes made by the Committee discussed at 2nd. to equal positions and equal rights of women and men. Of course, balance in the workplace is a major matter that is important to take seriously when we are going to take steps in trying to correct both genders. After we received reviews about this, the committee made adjustments in the case and discussed the committee. I would like to briefly review just why the committee decided to make these adjustments and how she feels that they will improve the case in terms of equally pay. First, there is the position of my enterprise and the institutions that many were concerned about, i.e. that it would be burdensome to the smallest companies because they do not have a staff to do that and the cost can be high. Thus, it is vital that we consider how we can introduce a equally paid system and help them in the process of doing the same kind of validation. As a result, we concluded in the Committee that it would be advisable to report the companies who had a 25How150 staff in which a remuneration in a single dust at the end was due. It was suggested that they be divided into two groups so that we would take first a company of 90 to150 people and a year later, a 25◯89 company. By doing so, we would allow smaller companies to make more room for achieving the same-employment work, especially considering that they had gained experience in the equally pay system, how they were introduced, and that the experience of the larger companies could be used by other smaller companies and institutions that follow up. Expert knowledge and solutions for smaller companies and institutions can be obtained if this is done in slow and good steps. This gives us more time for employment to meet the requirements made on the bill. Thus, the delay in implementing this has been increased by a phase at the end. When we discuss this matter, it is related to the adjustment we made on the committee, and here we recommend that the State take a good example. It may be normal when we demand a business in the country, that we here meet them first. I think it'll be a good thing if the state proves that it can go through these things and sees them something that would be good to change before the same requirement is made on my business in the country, so it won't be too burdensome for them. The proposal suggests that first the Council will arrive, along with the largest companies and then all other federal institutions. I think it's a good change because then all of them will have to finish before less than 150 companies accept the equally pay form. Then there's the third change I'd like to discuss. There are some measurable goals that the committee found missing in the bill. It is important that we monitor the effects of the bill. According to the Habitat Prize Research, in 2015 women's average labour market wages were 91% of male averages. Of course, this can be done better. If we look back ten years in time, the women's wages were only 76% of their male wages. So it's a big move in the right direction. However, the amount of pay is greater when we look forward to an uncorrected amount of pay during overtime hours, where men still receive a much more overtime period, which gives us further evidence of family responsibilities. There, adjustments are needed in which the equally paid witness cannot correct it. But there are other factors to consider. Therefore, we feel that it is important that laws be evaluated, for such laws must have a purpose in themselves to become unnecessary. Above all, they are to be successful. Therefore, we suggest that the minister evaluates the results of certification and confirmation of the equally paid system every two years. It is extremely important for experts to work on the value, the quality of the checks, the research and statistics, and the availability of these information so that we can identify our targets and how the bill will turn out. Then, especially for the General and Education Committee, it would be nice to hear in the fall what the result of the witness, what would be acceptable results, and what results would be unacceptable. We stress the importance of keeping track of the effects as we put such laws in place. Then it is the change in the publication of the standard, which we thought was important to attend, where comments like these have been made. Of course, the lead committee reviews our conclusions in this regard. I reiterate that we strongly emphasize that the location will be secure. Because of the obligation of the bill to companies and institutions and that individuals can study this standard, whether in whole or in a unique element. So we're going to direct the Ministry to negotiate access to the standard and will monitor it during the coming affairs of this matter beyond tomorrow's approval. Then I won't have this much further. I think we all love to achieve equality in the labour market, but we may have different ideas about the best ways to do that. This is natural, for if we had the best answer to that question, then there would be no difference in pay between the sexes. But here we are trying to eliminate gender pay between enterprises, and with these changes I believe the witness can be effective and can look forward to monitoring it and writing it under the majority opinions of the General and Education Committee. I am so looking forward to working with my Committee and Justice Minister for further success in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u9	A respectable president. To illustrate the problem we are facing, various studies have been carried out on the pay of the sex. One such investigation went on e.g. conducted by scientists who were hiring students into college. Then the university employees - trained to remain as neutral as they can with regard to data - their specialized scientific practices - their job applications and not really know that they are in an experiment. It's a blind investigation. They get an application marked by a man's name and a woman's name on what. What becomes evident from this study is that although this is a very well- educated staff in neutrality, not biased, there is still an unexplained difference between choosing men over women from among candidates and offering higher pay. It is simple, unintentional partiality with which we struggle. This is a cultural problem we have. We need to know what we are dealing with. It was observed to sources who led the committee that this will also be a problem for people who are to evaluate their jobs. Unwitting jobs is unwittingly mistaken for our internal values that we have instinctively developed. A second suggestion for the teacher really needs training in reaching out for the internal bias. What can be said is that the standard definitely helps. But how difficult and professional it is to overcome this unconscious bias must not be minimized. One technical point that I have noted about this bill is the cost, especially after the adjustment proposals. Today, institutions, such as the management board, or Council of Government, are to have the same pay form. According to one authority, this work is up to 85.9 months for a medium-sized agency. Thus, it is a significant cost that is not laid out in the bill, so the Council does not know how much money it is to spend on. They don't know how much effect will be on a financial program. That one technical point is that I feel worthy of that analysis before we are ready to sign the cost, which is our responsibility to manage public funds. This process that has been carried on, of having auditioners, and of going to agencies and the Generals first, and testing this on ourselves, I think it's a very good process. I am prepared to sign it as the correct methodology in finding out the goal of the bill, which is a very noble goal. There are, however, some other problems I'm aware of. As I described earlier in answer to a storyteller, reporters who had tried this equally pay - witness system said that all their work was to sort out jobs. True, the ideologies are behind the fact that there will be paid the same pay for the same work as in that way, perhaps to the same amount of pay. But the question given to the members of the committee, and I was very informed, was: Do you want a work class bill or a form of equally pay? The description was that this bill was about sorting jobs, not witnesses who paid equal wages. It says in the committee itself that this is a device to get to that direction, not a complete step, as I said earlier. Then I think of it as when a company or an agency has this badge, equally paid witness, it really doesn't have equal salary. It has only arrived to explain pay differences, since the situation is much more complex than is recognized that this method can cover I think I'm being fooled in a certain way. I set the example this way: today is, for example, the case. the Ministry of Health to take information, pay information, companies and institutions and to make a statistical analysis of the data, and to try to explain from certain variables the balance of pay shown in the data. After taking all the variables that can be harvested, there is an unexplained difference in pay. It may be possible to explain, but we do not know what variables it is and have not found those that explain the amount of pay shown in the analysis. After all these institutions and companies are through the same pay contract and we still get the same results through the statistical analysis, through the checks, and we still get unexplained pay amounts, it's very hard to say: But all the institutions and all the companies have explained it; they have as much pay-authorization as they have, and as a result, they have explained the amount of pay, though the overall statistics taken from many institutions and many companies, show unexplained amounts of pay. At any rate, we'll find that there is no pay difference within the companies if everything works out well. But there is still a pay difference between comparable jobs between companies. In this way, I find it difficult to call it a collective form of salaries and to agree with the comments of the members who came to the Committee and called this group of work. I'm just ready to sign this bill as a work class. But I think it's just a little bit that I'm being fooled by saying that there's as much pay as any company and institutions are doing with a price tag, but that's not in themselves. We don't know, they've just explained how much pay is done. If so, we are free of the term "momentary difference, " which is not the goal of this. Another way they went was also discussed by the reporters. They refused to go through this process, for it was so vast and costly, as mentioned, that it is 8◯10 months to work through all the work descriptions and comparisons and things. They actually used these statistical methods, which were offered: Is there an unexplained difference in pay or in the company? Actually, the same analysis as the total wage number. And when they have that information and try to change their pay decisions, there was a program in progress, they can change the criteria of their pay table and see if the outcome is unexplained pay difference or not, anyway. It is far more natural for me to go than a group of servants to reach the goal of equally pay - witness work. The reason this company chose the statistical method was that it was much smaller, simpler, and less expensive. It took just one 1/62 man a month to install it, and then it's just going on. If new decisions are being made, they only have to come up with numbers, and that's the outcome right away. So I'd like to compare it, 85.9 months to a.m.! I think the possibility is obvious. Then I ask if we should be going into this tremendous process when there is a much easier way to achieve the same goal. However, if companies and organizations want to explain specifically why there is an unexplained difference in pay, they can pick up the standard, go through the class, follow the procedures set out there, and they will be explained as to what is behind the unexplained pay amount expressed in their statistics. It's about the status itself. These are some 40 pages. One speaker said, though, that reading and understanding would require quite a bit of expertise. I've only written through him and looked at the layouts on the tables and the comparisons and how the scores are calculated and so on. It's not a small thing, though, it's quite a matter of putting yourself in this to get the depth. That's exactly what the reporters said. It was a discovery process for them. Although they had become very seared by thinking about the same wage work, they were constantly discovering something new months later. As I described earlier, this state of mind is extremely difficult and a cultural phenomenon to overcome, as the tests and examples show. I believe we need a lighter instrument to help us inform us about unexplained pay intake but such an enormous and complex device that is very likely not to walk so easily everywhere. There are certainly people out there who have a very good head of men and a very good position to put into this process and probably get very much out of it, but I think for the most part, it'll be a very rocky road. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson described how he felt about the bill as a sort of starter error. That's one reason why Piratar and I don't think we can sign it. We simply do not accept such practices. We make certain standards for the work we do at the council. True, we realize that failure can be made and readily acknowledged if that is the case. I think the consequences of setting up this class and the required professions are unpredictable. Overall, I believe that they could be good, the process, the suggestions, the modifications that were made could help. But what I don't understand is why the donkey is so big. The labour market partners said that in this year's collective contracts, they should try to get the standard in, so that businesses would go to work to get their own work done. They felt that it could not be done unless the standard had come into law. I'm not so sure you're right, but they might be right. The will of the Professional Association was to make that journey, at least according to their authority. The will for the workers and the labour market was also to go on that journey. If both sides are willing to take such a trip, I don't understand why it takes special laws to do so. In fact, it would be very easy to lay down very simple laws on that, as set up by the Standards Act, to have very simple, or equal, legislation and then set in Regulation to use this standard as expected standards should be used. I don't think much of this bill is necessary on the first steps. It would be very easy, and it would be easier to do so in a slightly simpler way first. If we start with institutions, Boards, Generals, and take these in such steps, we can make the law grow naturally according to the experience we receive gradually at the introduction of the standard. We may find out that this is extremely heavy and difficult for the induction process and that we want to go another way. This is very common, e.g. In software, we don't dump ourselves in the deep pool at the first step, but take little steps and see where they're returning us. Based on the reviews of the members of the committee, they say it's extremely difficult to introduce, it takes an enormous amount of knowledge, time, and cost to go into this. When I receive such information, I need to take a deep breath and think: " Is another way possible? Commenters said: "There are other ways to go, and there are statistics available. Then I must ask, Is that not a normal first step?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u10	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for having a good discussion on this subject. If the case is resolved at spring meetings, long in preparation, its roots have been established in 2008 when the Council of the World Council of Social Affairs and Inspire had premition to hide the development of such measures, which were then developed in government cooperation, labour market parties, local councils, and others. It's been a long time since the tournament, and we're about to take a very important step. But as we have discussed, it is vital that we also be alert to the fact that this is a tool that we want to use once and for all time to eliminate a sexual amount of pay, but, of course, we will need to be very alert to its effectiveness, its reforms, and its development. That's why I want to thank you especially. The General Information and Education Committee for an extremely careful discussion on the subject, for the suggestions here have been proposed by the majority of the Committee to change the bill, which I think all are improving, and to further strengthen its objective that it will be a real tool that we have in our hands to eliminate sexual agreements. This has been pointed out in the discussion and in the opinion of the majority of the committee that it was desirable that the vacancy itself be published. In fact, the same opinion has also been maintained in my opinion. I take to heart the fact that this is a very desirable goal. We will face the challenge of settling down with the Standards and looking for ways to make sure that it is. Of course, it is proper to state that it is very clear in the Standards Act how to legalize standards, to make them mandatory. After all, the methodology presented here is discussed. But I believe in the opinion of both major and smaller parts that it is desirable that the standards of the market would be publicized to increase transparency, to increase public access to information on what is being introduced here. And, of course, we will seek to make sure that we do. But once again, I just want to say that this is an important step we are taking. I have full faith that this is a real tool that can provide us with the means to eliminate gender pay. And while there is not a cure for those things, it will bring us considerable results. I'm convinced that we'll all be able to come together to ensure its function. I thank you again for a good and helpful discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u11	Borist has a letter from the fourth. We're out of Suðvest. "The Þorgerður of Katrín the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and the 9th. We're out of here. "Harðardóttir Hardydó, that they can't attend a conference in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly for the 2nd Presidency List of the Southwestern Revolution, Bjarni Halldór Janusson, and 1st President of the National Assembly in the Southwestern District, Willum Þór Þórsson. Bjarni Halldór Janusson and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson have previously taken their place at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u12	This meeting will be interrupted. One, two, three, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, three, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four,
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u13	By letter dated May 24, the president has requested it at the Commission and Control Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Parliaments, covering the following reports National Review: follow-up report on waste use by means of an EU directive, follow-up report on the management status and the calculus of the high school, reports on Group Association Lab, collection of costs, follow-up reports on the bodies of the Ministry of Presidents from budgets of 2012 Pharisees and a report on the health care of the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u14	A respectable president. Good morning. I would like to give a brief talk about a positive position in Smokeytown, how much change life there has taken in, and the situation of the community is getting better, despite the fact that it is still the most committed community in the country. There is an enormous structure that, of course, is linked to a large portion of the Cheflavor airport, which produces hundreds and even thousands of jobs each year, with an increasing number of pilots. There's a lot going on. It was estimated that the number of smokers in town would grow about 2.5% per year, but in recent years the number of growths is about 7.5% and is now approaching about 17 of you. ... aman. This growth is increasing by an average of 1,100,300 people each year. This, of course, results in various growth projects. There is a need to build up a service, and it is now available that on the next two years or so, the number of high school spaces in the countryside needs to be increased, especially on the Ásbway, where the University of High School now has about 14 classrooms and you need to add at least 14 classrooms. Seven over the next two years, plus the number of high school spaces to be added to the community. Of course, they do not know exactly how many children will be or what age they will be, so they run a little blind into the sea. This community's debt has not yet been able to secure loans, loans, as it is under the surveillance committee with the local financial laws, and it has to be made request for loans to be made. How important it is, then, that our community receive a share of the 10 billion sold on Ásbek for the building up necessary for a rural society that will not be able to borrow at the next time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u15	A respectable president. The newspaper today has a quote. paritaprevir Aargi, Birgir of an Ármannsson, where he says, by permission of the President: It's either more of a thing for or not. If it's more of a thing, it doesn't change in itself whether it's one person more thing or not. ... But since there is a difference, there's only a vote to make. As I was late tired of pointing to it, the current government has a smaller part of the vote of elections. So it is impossible for me to understand how more parts can be spoken of at the council as being able to decide something by the force of its votes when the same greater things do not have the force of votes from the voters behind them. Why was it not a greater proportion of voters who determine which categories could form a majority government? Why can the senator who is only bound to his convictions say that the greater part works in the council and not in the general election? It's a bit of my experience with the council. People shake their heads over various matters, but they just agree. What sort of conviction is that? If the government's going to file a bad case at a council, it's just gonna have to be thrown back. Congress is not a time label for the government. Senators are here on their own terms, in their own convictions, and on their behalf. So I'm curious to find out what this nation's commission means to you, members of the government. How small a vote is it necessary to be in elections so that your democracy will speak to you? One vote? A thousand votes? 1,862 votes? More? Does your conscience not waver? Is your conscience a faulty system of elections? That's just the rules of the game. We won the game, even though we've scored fewer points. Excuse me for criticizing, but aren't I wrong? Isn't the game on home ground with a local judge? Didn't the game understand the Independence Party three more members of Congress than votes gave rise to it? Three members of the council should have gone to groups that could not be replaced with the council. What kind of game is it, leaving out? [[The president calls.]] Consider this message this summer. Is the International Assembly a House Where Her Conscience Is Left At the front door?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u16	A respectable president. It is interesting to step into the scene of the Generals now, when the halls of the Council are near the end of the council, in the financial program of the government, which can be said to be the main execution of this council. It seems in simple form to go out of three things from my point of view: a union of state management, minimal money of building wood, and a reduction in tax burden from the material. This policy is designed to run on modern and prosperous society based on innovation and green practices, which are somewhat in the spirit of the left - green industry from about a decade ago, but it will not be either released and held. New births will not come from nothing, and sceptres will not be born into a highly educated educational system. Travellers fail to thrive on hollow malarways, monophasis of electricity, and unstable network relationship. These changes in job practices and the reality that we face simply requires a much more intense wood and a stronger partnership. There's a pink elephant in this, too. There is no real money policy to bury the budget, no problem with how to control the crown. It's about time we Icelanders have become accustomed to thinking and driving ourselves like hedge funds, which thrive best in risk and uncertainty. The core of the problem is when the major problems of the financial program all fall together on one thing, producing oil on fires inequated. Intensification and inadequacy of combined use are uneven. It is the inequity that is the world's greatest concern over politics. With the extended range, there is an increase in the number of angry ones on one side and in the other. The worst of all is that in the end, the hips can get together, so that the righteous anger of those who have too little has been transformed into the sails of their sails. Then there may be ideal circumstances to cultivate political monsters in closets, which have recently been exorbitant by far in international politics. I don't think any of us will go there, but then we'll have to take the turn as soon as we get to the next intersection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u17	V.E.G. President. General politics, kitchen - day talks, conducted at the General Assembly yesterday. I always find them interesting and truly attract the work of the council here at the end of the council, the political position, and the works of the highest degree. Governments, anyway. This is truly an increase in prosperity, the improvement in the quality of employment, the increase in prices, and stability. But what road trip is at the highest. the current government under these conditions? In Wonderland, the cat said something like this to Lísa when she asked for directions: "If you don't know where you want to go, it doesn't matter which way you choose. V.E.G. There seems to be a government there. The practicality of conversation does not exactly come from the work of the present. Government, rather, because of the decisive action of the last supreme. Governments led by the forward party. The problem was solved by the latest level of solution. A government by perseverance and carefulness and altered the debt of the home and the status of the nation's population. The potential that we now have to build up here is wood, health, transportation, welfare and education. But which way is this going to be the highest? Government to Choose? That's hard to see. In particular, there are ideas of cutting to high school, cutting donations to university, private health care, raising taxes on interest, and speaking in cross - line with and against the currency. This was the last term laid the foundation for the ideal situation in which we really are in a much better structure of basic wood and with increasing social emphasis on improving general well - being. It's not an easy thing to do, a respectable president, but in the administrative home it seems there is a lack of solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to say. The head of the pro board, Páll Magnússon. Yesterday, there was talk of settlements at the highest level. Jón Gunnarsson's minister took a little note of this matter, what would have been done in recent years, and especially what would be planned in the near future. One factor was the development of an electrical system. There is no doubt that in many areas a pot is broken in these materials and in many of the scattered areas of the country that need to be built on such materials. V.E.G. A minister linked this position directly to a frame plan. To him, the left government, when it was in its power in 2009 and 22013, as he put it, by the permission of a president, had a law that would put a stone in the street of a frame, and the wise uses of our energy resources, to which it would be the same as it is today. This would be the result. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether to share the vision of a minister that the position of electrical energy is somehow to teach that a frame plan was applied in its own time. I'm not sure that I and the highest. Ministers have the same view of what makes a wise use of energy resources, but I have a considerable concern if the development of electrical energy systems is directly linked to the ideas that the Minister has on the practical use of energy resources. One is to disseminate electricity, which is even already there, to take the next step in producing more electricity. I wanted to hear thoughts later. Senator on this. Are we going to wait for a frame plan to go and finish before we can get into the electrical transport system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u19	Madam President. Now I have a problem. Of course, I would simply say yes when asked to have a place to speak. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, apparently thinking that there was some of the issues we are now dealing with on the job committee. I heard him once. A senator has the premeditation here: Well, I haven't studied this exactly yet, but I still want to say... Sadly, I missed that part of my talk at the highest. Minister as quick as possible. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé refers to his own number. I just don't trust to see if there's a controversy about the box at the elected time of 2009-2013 that explains where we stand right now. I think that this fall, when we meet again, must be faced by this task to deal with the transport and distribution systems of electricity and to solve the issues of the colder areas of the country, especially in the northeastern and around the country. I can't answer it in any other way than this. I can say, though, that I think I may agree with the Minister in what he said yesterday, but exactly what he said. I'm sorry, a senator may not hear his speech, and I don't trust to tell me what the root point of the present issue is in the box during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u20	V.E.G. President. During the last term, there was a system change for the benefit of older citizens. In this system change, a cent was against the loss of a cent, and various classes of pensions were united. The aim of these changes was to simplify the social security system and improve the interests of the elderly. In this system change, those with lower incomes were especially viewed. According to the Ministry's study of the consequences of structural change, most senior citizens increased in wages for change. According to the Ministry, the increase was in the range of 10◯24% at the last year. The largest increase was found in those with the lowest income. However, it is noted in the Ministry's study that the two highest income tenants declined during these changes. These include groups with 470 thousand and a higher salary. During the last term, we did not achieve the same results as in terms of quality disability. Not an important system modification agreement was reached, but it must be continued in cooperation between the Quantum Community and the Ministry and the solutions both parties can accept. The overall increase to the jury during the last terms, over three and a half years, was over 40 billion. However, it is sobering to consider that according to the government budget. Governments to the next five years are a total increase in the languages of the elderly and disability of less than 26 billion. This is a difference of over 14 billion, but it contains estimated system changes due to microbubbles of 2.7 billion. As calculated by the system changes during the last terms, it was estimated that the system change would be up to 5 billion. There's a lot of missing up here. No doubt we could have done better with this group of subjects during our last term. As mentioned earlier, over 40 billion went to the lawsuit in three and a half years, but now over a five - year period for the next five - year period, it is 26 billion. [[The president calls.]] That is a sobering thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u21	Madam President. I listened carefully to talks here last night in kitchen Sundays. I didn't feel that there was much conviction in the management speeches that they watered to guide the nation into a welfare community and had some vision of the future. Rather, it seemed to be the most loveless marriage I've ever seen, hanging out on an economic basis alone. It's about power and power. As a result of a man's presentation, I felt that they resented the fact that it was so difficult to control in the present situation. I've been at a council for eight years. Of course, if you want to talk about difficult years, it was the years after the fall, when the days ran together for one night and day, right here at the council. I cannot feel sorry for people today, when they have brought us here by taking great tribulation after the collapse, to demand that the cookie be divided in a just way. We're reaping the results of years of hard work, and people cry that it's all so hard, it's so hard to put more money into the health system, it's so hard to put more money into education, it's so hard to build up wood, it's so hard to get all this number of tourists in the country. Everything's so hard. If all of this is so difficult, is it not just a matter of face - to - face with the fact that they cannot handle this role in controlling the country when good ones are? We left men can take it for granted. It is not a religious fanatic to oppose personalization and to work secretly and clearly to bring the nation's common wealth into private hands, as this government is doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u22	Madam President. The financial program for 2018●2022 shows that the United Nations has a support for the UN's goals that industrialized countries provide at least 0.7% of the budgets of their national incomes for developing cooperation. However, if Iceland's development contributions were only 0.25% in 2016, and if financial plans are adopted unchanged, donations will only rise by 0.01% in 2018, or 0.26% of national income, thus remaining until 2022. However, recent years have improved Iceland's contributions to NATO, first in the history of the Ministry of Proclamation and Independence Party and implementing a national financial programme to continue to do so. V.E.G. The foreign prime minister has promised an increase in money for NATO. True, there are dangers in the world that can pose a threat to security. However, instead of attacking the root causes of the problem, which is a failure and profiteability, the wealthy communities have responded by increasingly armed and unprincipled waste in military and military alliances. The financial agenda of increased contributions to NATO, while the lack of ambition in developing cohesion is short - lived and undermines the safety and safety of the world in general. It's a course to refuse. Let us keep this in mind when we continue our national budget and later vote for it at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u23	A respectable president. During the first week of May, the media were a part of a dream tour by the former senator and minister of the Independence Party in Sweden for five others in a replacement surgery. It happened that the Bible planned the trip, with the president and the chief owner of the former colleague and group sister of the traveler and members of the relatives of the prime minister. It is peculiar how all of this harmonizes with, perhaps unfortunate coincidences in the context of things. This class has been trying to break the way for public funds to provide health care. The journey described the person as spiritistic. What was the top point was that when she ran to the high hospital in Sweden, she was told by herself that it was a private hospital that she would not know before she left home. Her experience made her realize that it was a lot of news, and she was there to see the Creator's glory so as not to compromise. The trip was made on the basis of the EEA Health Care Professional Directive. That source is one of the fine cooperation that we started 25 years ago, but it required that the independent party be drawn to that extent with great revulsion; it was split up. It is a joy to see that the partyer has experienced the benefits of this relationship and that the action was successful and, of course, brings happiness to the future. What came to be understood by interviews with her, however, was thought - provoking. It was high that the government paid all the cost of the trip, even attracting escorts. That's not true at all. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. 484/2016, and according to it, the health insurance of Iceland will be reimbursed in this country as if it were a health service in this country. Team replacements are centralized in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] So I felt that there was reason to immediately ask a written inquiry to the minister on how the Regulation was conducted and if there were any misunderstandings. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though, an answer has been drawn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u24	Madam President. In the Declaration of Independence Class Governments, Expansion and Future Bears, the same is true. This about immigrants and foreign languages, with permission of presidents: ▪ In a population population, there is a man - made and varied experience that has resulted in enriching one's relationship. ... A regular reception of host - power workers will be provided and will be sought to receive more refugees. ... The objective of humanity should be guided by the release of applications for international protection, in accordance with the United Nations refugee Convention. Despite these beautiful words and promises, there are many examples of people and families who are seeking international protection but who are rejected and dismissed from the land. It is my opinion that we senators are to use, not for the release of individual subjects, but for the resolution of the entire group. But I can't put my words here in the General's speaking chair today at the application of a 16-year-old boy from Morocco who came to Iceland last December but has been denied asylum. As an unsurpassed child, the boy is here with his 21 - year - old brother who wants to get him to safety. The boy is homosexual, and he is twice as weak as an escorted child, and because of his sexual orientation. In the United States alone, the Icelandic government directs the Dublin Protocol as the basis for sending the brothers from Iceland rather than for passing their case here. As it has been repeated, there is nothing in the Regulation that encourages Iceland to send out refugees, much less homeless children. It can be said, therefore, that this is a policy and the position of the government rather than its legal duties. The Icelandic government will have to answer its policy in the affairs of escorted children and whether they will fulfill their beautiful promises to receive more refugees and whether they will be guided by the efforts of humanitarian people to provide international protection. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other things are inhumane.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u25	Madam President. I have to agree with what. The last speaker who says: "It is absolutely unacceptable that we are in the position we are today to be in the presence of unbelieving children. At the same time, we are expanding our donations to NATO. We're paying another billion to NATO. What for? We have nothing to do with spending so much money in NATO. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We're supposed to defend them in humanity. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It must be the freckles that were mentioned here yesterday. To whom did it come to be the highest? Is there a financial and economic minister? Is it a prime minister who is so aggressive?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u26	You ask yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u27	You ask yourself. Who would that be? Who is the one who does not want to deviate from what he has determined to be right? You see, it was a big word. Secretary of finance dropped here yesterday. The nature of the case, as you look inside, is the case. The minister now seemed to do and speak only on behalf of the Archipelago, you ask yourself, " What is this? ' Because it's clear, and you see everyone who wants to see that there's a division in the government. They don't go with one another, they don't go the same way. At least they don't hold hands, that's obvious. Of course, it takes the highest. Minister to explain who he belongs to. Because if he doesn't mean the highest. The prime minister and those with him in the government need to know who it is that prevents us from making good changes here, whether we are talking about health or school matters or what we do at any time. Who's the one who doesn't want to change, the highest. Minister? V.E.G. A minister has the opportunity here today to complete the matter of government policy. I really hope that he will explain it to us, for we need to know this in the opposition. We can help him with some good changes if he is willing to look forward, not in the back seat, as this seems to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u28	A respectable president. I stand here on behalf of the members of the board in the middle of nowhere. The welfare committee to share a joint accounting that was presented in transpolitic reconciliation yesterday: The state has a great and special obligation to consult with disabled people and its organization under law on the affairs of disabled people and on the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, whom the Icelandic government validated. In the autumn, a debt was made to honor and enforce. In Comb 4. The contract is related to the agreement, so that when Member States prepare their legislation and policy to introduce the contract and work to make decisions about the status of disabled persons, they should have close consultation with the disabled and ensure their active participation, including disabled children, through a means by which they are represented. With reference to this and in light of the wishes, tips and comments made from some organizations working on the interest and rights of disabled persons on the subject and on the treatment of the bill, and considering that the welfare committee has taken a short period of time to release the bill at this council, it is suggested that its payment be delayed. A welfare committee is expected to make time between councils to discuss the bill and the reviews in close cooperation with the Ministry for immediate release at the beginning of the next assembly. In progress, the bill can gain a value on January 1 as defined in the January 1 issue of this magazine. At the end of a book that can be seen in the Committee Summit, a proposal was made to the Ministry of Health to stipulation the user-controlled personal assistance in Article 11. and provisional regulations within the bill will be passed into current law on the affairs of disabled people. They are expected to be in law about serving disabled people with a great deal of support when the bill is delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u29	Madam President. Now that my first session here is over, I just want to think about the roles we're taking in here. In here are two groups, control and control. This reminds me a little bit of school. There are also two groups, teachers, and students inside. The teachers are only fewer than they speak considerably more. Every time you come to the living room, there's a teacher saying something, and then he quits and comes in another teacher and says something. The students speak mostly to introduce some of the projects. Then some teacher immediately arrives and says: " This is not a good thing. This is not working well at all. [[For example: What school are you in?]] Late return. Not very well done. It wasn't like that when I was a student. We worked late at night, returned everything at the right time. It's not like that. When teachers speak and few students attend, they complain: Why is no student here? I've prepared a great speech here, and then no one comes. So, no one's coming. I feel a little like this, and I don't deny that I've often enjoyed this very exciting year. I would like to use this opportunity, most likely the last time I get to talk about the Senate's work, to thank the teachers and students very much for the cooperation of the remaining year. Who knows, maybe I'll, if I'm doing well in this job, one day I'll graduate, and someday I'll be a teacher here at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u30	Madam President. I'd like to talk about the great campaign program of young people. I believe it is not because of a lack of political interest but primarily because of the poor-hearted group. First, young people cannot buy as much goods and services for their income and desirable items. So if not more because of the lower income, consumers are as much of their business as others do. From the competition of low prices to changing cab cars legislation, all of these are young people's issues. What we can do there is limited, yet we can make sure that freedom of choice is a natural one and is opposed by competition for the benefit of consumers. In fact, we do the most good by improving the resources offered to young people, e.g. by promoting mental - health services for young people, who normally find it harder to get the strength from a trade union doctor's doctor's kit and resist the refusal of many young people to accept the vital service. The Icelandic loan fund might also be tailored to the needs of those who apply it. There are, however, some declines when a student's loan is granted, and most of the funds are loaned to 92% of the amount that a student really needs to earn, even if the student's progress is good enough and all the conditions met. Most students do not consider that to be enough. It is also wrong for the fund not to pay in advance. Students need to search banks and charge loans with related expenses and financial worries. If the loan fund paid itself out in advance, the loan system would be more transparent and savings already would be the interest that is now paid to meet the interest rate of overgrad loans. There is also the birth strength of students, up to 60,000 dollars. lower than the level of birth in low labour markets. If we say we're working, we don't send out the right message. These are just a few of the many examples. There's a pattern here. When society finally works for young people, it begins to participate in the social events involved in elections. So, if we're going to respond to this, I suggest we do our job and make sure the community works for this group. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u31	A respectable president. This time our second most recent assembly date will be before the end of the council. That is why I find it appropriate to mention, and perhaps curious about the loss of queries to the minister, who just seem to disappear into a black hole when they leave us to them. My request has been by the highest level. Secretary of education since March 23rd. It's two months to the highest. Minister has taken action to answer this inquiry. I've got no response to it, no notice that the answer needs to be won or delayed, that there's something over my head being working on the case. V.E.G. A minister has 15 days to answer his inquiry, and there are rules he breaks without having to enter it here. My request is to staff and staff at the State Radio. This is a question that a HR manager or personnel manager should be able to answer in one, two days. There's nothing in my question that calls for a lot of overwork, research, that something needs to be digging deep into it. I'm asking about the staff maintenance arrangements. Why is that so? The minister has now broken it for more than two months to answer this inquiry? There's simply nothing else left but politics. [[The president calls.]] He is uncomfortable with the inquiry and allows him to ignore it. That's what I'm calling for, chief. President, that there will be a follow-up for the inquiry before the council ends tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u32	For example, the Office of the Generals suggests that questions are answered continuously throughout the winter and that they carry special stress on the application at the end of the council. We still have time to run, and the office hopes to get some answers. Although the council is suspended and the president assumes that it will be done as necessary, it is permitted to hand out the documents electronically.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u33	Madam President. It's good to hear that the General Assembly Hall office does its work and push after our inquirys. I could use some. I'm going to do the same thing as what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who spoke of questions that still remain. I am one of those who have not received answers to my less query, which is two months old, since the 20th of March. That request was addressed to the highest level. Minister of Justice for escorted children who apply for international protection. Like what? A senator pointed out earlier, the Ministers have 15 days to respond to our inquirys. May 19th. came a message to me that the Ministry couldn't have handled that inquiry. I wonder what this beach is all about. I even asked. how many children who were escorted under the laws of foreigners had applied for international protection in this country in the past five years and for their age and gender. [[The president calls.]] Have unsupervised children been sent to another part of the country within the last five years on the basis of the European Parliament Regulation and how do governments ensure that the children who are prevented from applying for international protection in Iceland and sent elsewhere, are provided with the tools and treatments that match the international commitments of the child's rights? [[The president calls.]] There must be political and no other reason why such a request is not answered. There's got to be a way of answering a question like that in a matter of two months.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u34	The president's attention is what. Congress officials assume that the hour in the Senate speaker's stand is not correct, but in time the president watches his chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u35	A respectable president. I have a little program, which I started already. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé went up in a pitta, which includes the days that have passed until answers are received. Since the last time I examined it, there's been a lot of improvement. The mean duration of queries is 18 days. But the average time for the queries that are currently inside and that have not yet been answered is 30. If all that inquiry is answered, the mean time will be slightly higher. But to keep this under control: the present average response time is 18 days, which is very good and the best I've seen in many councils, what I've thought. However, it is not very good to leave unsatisfying questions. If they're just pulled out, the average is really good. It is highly unnatural to choose which questions will only die and which questions are quickly answered, thus adjusting the average.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u36	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A president of the United States, who responds to my indications and other prowess. Senators. You're absolutely right at the highest. The president that questions can be answered electronically after the end of the council. But I think it's a good idea if it's the highest. Ministers may allow themselves to delay answering queries until the council is sent home because it leaves us on the scene to discuss the subject of the inquiry, discuss the answer. When you send a inquiry to a written answer, there is certainly no special platform to discuss it, but there are ways to do so on the program. I think it's an example of a very bad practice if the Ministers can simply ignore queries because it's awkward to answer them, send the council home, and send an electronic answer to the members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u37	Madam President. We are now in the final session of a national budget discussion discussed during the past few days at the council. In many respects this has been a turning point in that it clearly indicated that the council was all an active participant in the discussion and treatment of the matter. I especially want to thank you right now, when the discussion ends, the fine work the entire council put on this important matter. In a sense, the discussion has been a matter of technical and technical presentation. I just want to say, as it has been shown in the discussion that I've been trying to take part in the best of my ability, of course, that there are certain learning and development processes in this case. I think the discussion now also indicates that we should try to resolve to take as much leap in developing this process so that we can achieve the goals we were going to set for ourselves, much sooner than we can see right now. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have much of a case here. I'm going to have to split my speech session with the independents between me and my wife. paritaprevir It is important that we bear in mind that Friðbertsson, the Njáll of Trausti, the son of Trausti, is a large tooth wheel on the progress of the country's responsible for economic government. It is true that what needs to be changed and that adjustments need to be made. This is a responsible approach in that we try to be moderate in extending our government expenses. We take into account the energy in the economy, and it is certainly brought up in the real increase in expenses that are specifically attributed to the leading point of the section where more effort has been made to sort out the cost development that will be in the coming years. A respectable president. Finally, I want to thank you for the fine discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u38	Madam President. There is clearly a new plan in the budget. It's a big, big campaign the Icelandic government makes in this case. Let me just mention a few points that we take into account in terms of the greater share of the budget, the investment and better information collection there, so we appreciate it and try to see the investments in our country for us in the coming years, how we work this case. We called the Society of Industrial Affairs and other bodies for the Committee, asking for information far and wide, and hopefully we'll have more detailed analysis for the next financial programme, even for the financial law in the fall from these sources. It is important to work closely with your locals and other government, companies and ohfs and others in order to get a better overall picture than we seem to be in on today and have had to work with them. In view of what is said in the opinion of a greater part of the travel agency, we feel very important that more extensive research and analysis are needed in the article, which created about 39% of last year's currency revenues when the fishing road created nearly 20% and the major industry 13%. It's a question of whether an Icelandic aircraft should be taken out of the travel statistics as well as a thorough analysis of the aircraft. Icelandic air traffic is a relatively large part of our economy, it's a lot of people around it. This is actually the fourth support today if we talk about the traditional foundations, and it needs to be analyzed. It is up to us to discuss how to control the high flows of foreign tourists into the country and the economic sizes produced, and the pressures of the Icelandic crown and such factors, whether it needs to be investigated, because Icelandic flights, international airports, have become so big a change in national production and economy of the country. Thus, there is a need for humans to look at it economically and to perform the diagnostics that must be done, how it affects our economy. In 2010, at the time of the Eyjafjörður, 16 passengers were operating at Icelanda and Iceland Express. By this year, they are 49 at the Wow and Icelanda, the numbers have tripled. If the projections go along, and what Weow air has implied, within three years, that the airline leaves 17 planes it has to do today to 40, and Icelands will continue to grow as it has done in recent years, passengers who fly to and from the country of 2020 will be 80. There were 16 of them in 2010. Thus, over the course of 10 years, the flying fleet is on its way to and out of the country. I think we need to start giving serious talks about how much this tremendous growth can have on the Icelandic economy. And it's not supposed to be that way - I'm the senator here who's spoken most of all for Icelandic flights and has been doing it for a very long time, but I'd like us to learn what this is going to mean for an Icelandic economic system. I think there's a great need to do that as soon as possible. Ofoffore Economics reported in 2011 on Icelandic air traffic as a proportion of Iceland's domestic product. Then it was about 6.6%, but today people don't know what a high proportion it is. It has been reported that there are between 10 and 15% of the national production involved in Icelandic international air traffic. I think there is a great need for this to be taken very systematically before and that the report will be at least won again. The data and figures from the previous report need to be updated to get some perspective on this because natural policy measures for this country have to be made to some extent here. The government, the legislators'Council, must have some perspective on how this should develop in the economy and tell us how we want it to grow. Therefore, we have tips on these factors in the majority of the interest of the branch committee. We want people to start assessing the effects of the system and to get a full view and work on future policy. If we take a look at the ideas we have today about the Cheflavor airport and its evolution in the years ahead, that's a very big idea. It would also have to be appreciated in the national global economy what it means if the predictions that have been spoken about in connection with the Chefavor airport are fulfilled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u39	Madam President. The first thing that has caught up in this financial program is the comments of an independent financial body on the plan. I don't think I'm going out of the game when I say that review is actually a relapse of this plan. It shows that the schedule is not in line with the baseline values mentioned on official financial stability laws, on transparency, on balance, and on why the plan does not meet the baseline. In particular, this is most pronounced for the translucency, which is almost nothing in this program, since it lacks massive core users and back-to-back figures so that the plan can be considered transparent. The financial adviser also says that the plan is based on homologous projections and, hence, is extremely uncertain about the economic foundation of the programme. For example, it is assumed that this longest continuous growth in the history of the Republic will be completed with smooth landings, even though history will teach us otherwise. We must listen to these indications and to this criticism of a financial body that says that there is much more work to be done in order for these laws to work as they were supposed to, that this strategy does not meet the law as it is required. On the end of this schedule, I would like to say that it is based on what has been done before. During the last term, government income stocks were severely weakened. I don't have to review all the examples that I've often studied here in the IIlium symposium. However, a reduction in the top level of the valuable tax system is continued. I haven't heard what. The government's members question the tax decline, as part of the population we hear from all disorders. While it is contrary to what all economists are talking about, members of the government are concerned about the value of tax doctors. Now that the expansion of the economy is in the way we see, the sponsorship of the crown in the way we see it is offered a tax reduction. The transfer of the tourism to the top level of the valuable tax system is controversial, it will not be accomplished if I can listen and can read a word at any time. The senators of the greater part of the United States. It will not be made up, and I'm not surprised, for there seems to have been no consultation with the article on this proposal; there is no analysis on how this change will affect the tourism. The homework hasn't been done, Madam President. The big issue is likely to be the fact that the planned development of the combination, suggested in this financial program of the greater part, is shown on page 20. 16 in the proposal's report; it shows how the share of gross domestic product increases from year to year and ends under the average of the past 25 years. Such a trend is completely preposterous. We know what our nation's age is, and we know that our medical system will be more likely to move on as well as the care system and, in addition, we have an enormously cumulative need to build up, whether it is health, education, or other resources, so that I don't mention those of the lowest terms in our society's society, disability, or older age, who have tragic results in this financial strategy, which is supposed to name to ensure that their terms remain on the lowest price of society's salary, continue to be impaired for a centennium. I got it. I got it. Councilmen of the greater part read the CREEP review of this strategy. In short, the basis is vague. There is a lack of analysis and data. The plan does not follow a baseline law on public finances and is far from all the expectations given to the public in this country before election. It does not live up to the expectations given to the judges of the administrations. [[The president calls.]] That alone is reason enough to reject this plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u40	Madam President. Yesterday, the highest said. Jón Gunnarsson's secretary for transportation that the situation in the economy was extremely good and would not have been better. The state's position would be strong and would be the basis for the building to come. A well - known theme was also heard, the emphasis on the private enterprise, the support of state affairs, and then entered the minister's greatness despite the fact that the Environment Minister of the same government says that it will not be attacked on its watch. Under the resounding rush, there was trouble. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir with her problems at the same time with us that she feels she doesn't understand terms when it comes to things that start with a private one. Residents, as well as Ministers of the Bright Future, each spoke of his own lawsuit and his point that this is not a government agreement. How challenging it is to maintain our welfare system and ensure its future! This requires both a good organization in the past and a clear view of the future, but especially a solid financing. This is where taxes are the most important thing, and in our left greens it should not be looked for money to pay for welfare services. We do not want to demand medical care or school fees for sick people, but we expect taxes from taxes. We demand that natural resources be exploited, not by a few national interests, but by all national resources. We want taxes paid on capital income, and we have no tolerance for those who compromise their obligation to their community in these matters. This budget does not match what was promised for elections. The economy is increasing, and why are the poor, older citizens, children, and young people who are making their home not to be enjoyed? When would that be the right time? As mentioned earlier, the financial adviser's review of this government budget is a drop-off. In the past 25 years, there has been less share than is expected in this financial program. Twenty-five years is no small thing. We look forward to a considerable age, and we do not accept it in this financial program of building up aging services. We're buying helicopters, but we're not going to make sure they're human. We're going to reduce the number to the police because we don't do enough. We're going to close or cut down from the county, and most likely it will be in the country. The number of students in school is expected to be reduced. Personalization is referred to in a different way by members of the Parliament who discuss this financial program. There are broken promises, and there is no progress in building up this national budget. It is deceptive to claim such things. The administrative home is out of control. I think it's perfectly clear, it's been shown here yesterday and it's been made very repetitiously that this government doesn't function in rhythm. The national budget presented here has not been sufficiently successful. It is reprehensible to postpone and push forward to the fall of decisions that are fundamental in this national budget. This can't be offered. V.E.G. A minister has said that the comments cannot be addressed because they arise after a national financial program has been submitted. So if we are not to take them into account, why are we to make comments? We cannot just say, " We're going to try to do better next time. ' We obviously do, and that's all we can do. Worse, this is not really the case with the financial counsel. It is a good thing to say that we can pray. Government officials here speak of this as not absolute because it's just a concierge, not a law, but we've established this here by a Congress resolution adopted by the government parties before and by the terms of financial policy. It's the government, and we're locked up, as financial advice repeatedly points out. When we have these frames in our hands a little more distinct, much too little, though, as everyone has said, it's just said, "It's just gonna be revealed in the fall, and then we're going to go back to jubbles between lawsuits or paintings. A respectable president. Where's money? What group of paintings is so fat that he can see from money to something else? Who should pay the proposals of the greater part of a budget board that is based on money spending in colleges, that the university enjoys comparable donations as it is in the current year? It's not clear, but it must be within the language field, so I wondered if there's a group of lawsuits in the language field of the schools that have a table for a table. I don't think so. I must say, because many talk about the left and the right, that the difference between the right and the left course is always obvious. Sometimes others are said to be. It is never hard to distinguish between socialism and socialism on the other hand, with specialism and capitalism. It is always obvious when the rights of the stronger and richer are greater than the rights of those who have little to take. When governments allow the power of wealth to dominate, social injustice becomes the result of what we see here. That's what's happening, and that's what this government budget reflects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u41	A respectable president. We are discussing today the highest case of the government in this council winter, financial agenda until the next five years. As to the discussion, the criticism of this Assembly Hall, from both the smaller but as much from the majority of its members, i.e. in the opinion they have given, there's a lot on the plan, and it doesn't depend on the expectations of the government parties, and, in fact, other categories, praised for elections, and it's not dealing with the problems we face today in the community. What everyone agrees about, both members of this room and outsiders, such as financial advisers, is that this is a time when the sentence meets legal requirements and more diagnostics are lacking between investments and business and other economic factors. It's fine that we agree on that. I think that's going to change in the future. More remarkable, though, is the fact that in the majority of the panels of 12 panels, they criticize a great deal of this financial program and point out the need for adjustments. However, the senators struggle to make adjustments. This is the debate, however, the place where we take the debate about policy development, that's the lawgiver that adds the lines and the execution authority. However, it seems that the lack of solidarity within the governments and the government parties is such that the government bodies are afraid to make changes because they do not agree on it. But they will agree to point one another out. I discussed the financial policy of tailoring the policy of this government with the feeling that they could not enforce anything or anything. There was nothing to discuss during the financial discussion. The senators didn't come up here. Here on the financial agenda, however, they criticize one another, but they also failed to make adjustments. We'll be in a lot of trouble under the budget this fall. Everything's going to be in the air. There will be a lack of money in the medical system, fantastic. It's a little under-finance. It is claimed that it is being financed, both in construction and in business. That's not true. Even this structure is not a treasure, which, though most of it, goes to concrete on Ring Road. The same goes for college. The increase there goes to most of the concrete, not to further education. In high school, the current government decides to depart from previous governments and prior financial programs by taking money from high school, which is produced by a shortened study from four years to three, and moving it into a state fund or something else, but not by returning it back to education. In innovation, research, and technology, there is no plan. The disregard of the present government is absolute when it comes to dealing with the future, which is developing here an increasing education, increased opportunities for innovation, research, and education of young people. Not to mention transport plans. There, the government simply returns wealth. It discusses the setting of premium charges. If they will have more service, more and more ways, then let them pay more. It was the mantra we heard last night. However, the independent party came along and said: "You just need to make more personal choice. A bright future came up here, her chairman, and concluded that it was only a good policy that this government brought on. I was surprised. On the other hand, the project returned empty in the kitchen day talk yesterday. There was no discussion of the future on the part of the Generals. It is true that the economic situation in Iceland is good today, but there are major challenges. In many ways, they have to find a way to land the economy smoothly. The greatest challenge is yoarism in the country and gang. But there is another way. It is the way of the reconstituted economy. This is the way we build where there are opportunities to do so. There is an opportunity to do so in the country, where much structure is needed in many areas, without a major impact on the whole country. It would be a building policy. Now is your chance. Of course, all over the country needs to be financed by the needs of health and education. That's only basic. We have enough money to do that. That's what we're supposed to do. Therefore, we will reject this financial program and contribute other ways to the budget in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u42	V.E.G. President. We candidates feel that it is important to stress the subsidies of the state funds and thus reduce interest costs, but we would have wanted to go a different way than the right government, a better way as soon as it is capable. We criticize, for example. the great requirement set out in the state budget. We would've wanted to bring the deadline down to 1% of the budget, but it's now 1.5%. Less management should be given at a government fund of about 10 to 12 billion dollars. A little extra a year. In addition, we'd like to increase the income of state funds e.g. with a comet charge and a public health tax. The government board plan is priceless. In fact, the government intends to place several billion people on transportation, but they are just a drop in the ocean. During the collapse of road edifications and failure to take up new projects, which have become urgent as a result of increasing traffic. The government is going to make transportation easy. However, the minister and members of the right categories have tried to reduce the disappointment of the people of the land by speaking of hope. It's just a little bit of a roadside hope. The message is: If you want to add transportation, get rid of single bridges, double roads, you must want to pay for the road to the road. Otherwise, nothing's gonna happen. This message is bullshit. There's a better way, our favorites. Any who would like to see the absence of passion within the government. The only thing that seems to unite most members of the government is their belief in personalization, personal business in as many areas as possible. The government runs a starving policy that has fallen to the population of the country to accept that it is better to have a private service than nothing - or to relax service. In order to hide election fraud, a way is by providing financial programs without separating capitals for investments and, on the other hand, for business purposes. If we look e.g. in the health and educational domains of these classes, it has been found that the capital increase in the level of health and education is primarily in the form of concrete. I criticize their priorities and point out the obvious fact that if the infrastructure is allowed to fail, it will damage the long - term competitiveness of the country. Are people really going to stay in their hands when the economy is up and up, like in the midst of a crash? When Is the Time for Action? We need to be careful when the economy is hot, as it is today. But not all areas of the country. Analysis lacks, e.g. with regard to the reproductive effects of implementation by national parts. I also want to emphasize again that the priorities of public projects should not only be based on interest requirements but also on national grounds where various social factors are taken into account. Then I come to the settlements that are very thoughtful to us candidates, now and again. Unfortunately, a financial plan describes a complete lack of ambition in that area, where contributions to long - term parishion projects are not included in a financial program. Such long-term funding uncertainty is completely unacceptable. We candidates are completely opposed to the valuable tax changes the government groups have spoken to. We think they're badly developed and poorly prepared. It has been shown that the impact of planned changes is underestimated and not delayed in collaboration with stakeholders. Similar criticism came from the local communities regarding the issues of financial programs involved. Neither was there any consultation, and worse, plans are completely unrealistic. According to financial councils, Government Accounting, which, in fact, went deeper in the years, said that these plans and numbers were actually crazy, and the Union of Icelandic rural society. Why is it that figures that are known to fail are being developed? I quote here at 11:00. the law on government finance that we should follow. It says that rural society should be consulted with financial programmes. It is to be done, and it is not now. We are not enforcing official financial laws, at least not in this regard. In terms of both content and format, a majority of the budget committees soon came to realize the prejudicialness of the budget. So the greater part suggested that certain factors be examined and reformed. I wish that more of the money committees had shown political courage, remained consistent, and made adjustments. Will they be members of the government who have figured out how malicious the plan is, in real life, to vote for it? That's what we're going to do with the advance at least. Don't do it, we'll be on the red button and suggest that the case be rejected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u43	Madam President. Here we will discuss a financial program that was adopted after a kitchen - day discussion, which was spoken only of. The government has not yet been able to explain to the nation or its members where it is heading. She believes that it is her main concern to show responsibilities in the government business, but the results seem to be to be to reduce business ventures, to bring him to a private person, and to cut off cohesion. It's a completely different tone than it was hit before elections. Then let us just discuss the responsibility of this financial program. It leaves 8.5 billion holes in government affairs, and there is an uncertain 17 billion dollars. In 2019 due to the apparent fall from the expected increase in value tax for tourists in July 2018. No income is given or told where to strike. This is irresponsible. It is important in the midst of a stimulus to stick to the goal of subsidies, not to do as the government now promises unfundable expenses. It reduces confidence and sets the pursuit of money left in perfect agitation and flexes rhythms and increases the pressure on growth. With this, the government also promotes instability in the workforce, all because financial committees and government members are unable to raise government funds when it has rarely been easier. In blind faith in the doctrine of liberalism that public intervention and tax returns cannot be of the good, they put on bad ideas. Social stability is undermined, however, as one of the North American model's foundations, which the government actually talks very beautifully about when convenient. These plans, along with the straitjacket of a financial program that claims a government share, make it possible that the cut-off knife will appear and fall if only the economy is pulled down and the rise is reduced. That is why it is urgent that the current government does not retain control. The members of the United States totally reject these irresponsible practices of the greater part of the budget. Such association is in complete opposition to plans for better business and financial projects and the aims of new laws on public finance, good economic management, and the strength and responsible government of public finance. In addition to the main comments made by financial advisers and others about the need to show greater responsibility in the good; providing safe disposal of funds, more than smaller, and the reduction of the upper level of a valuable tax in the middle of the upturn is very unfortunate. The 13.5 billion lost should rather be used in other areas, such as the reduction in insurance costs, which would benefit innovations. If a determined willingness to lower taxes, no matter what the cost, the government might be more concerned about social and social matters that have been discussed extensively and that are unsaturable in the budget. These may include difficult housing conditions, older ones'affairs, and desperate ones, so I don't talk about attacking poverty. Thus, this financial program does not include responsible economic management and no matter how often the song about stability is sung here, it is in no way consistent with the needs available. In the United States, we have provided some adjustments to support the government's income foundation to provide more access, Madam President, and to strengthen social support and increase the equation. We need to make sure that no one is left behind and that everyone will enjoy the good years we live. It is easy to make money by increasing income balances in the tax system and taking up market-related resource costs in the marine road, such as the highest level. The secretary of finance, in fact, spoke very highly before elections. When a financial program was introduced, the big headlines were about 20% higher to the health system. True, it was forgotten to report that the largest part of the increase was the construction of a new land hospital. We are happy, of course, to build a new hospital, but who would have thought of an election that the same building should be cut down in hospital service in the country and in the Land Hospital? The added supplement to the financial management programme is not even enough to meet an increase in patients, much less enough to work on the list of waitings or the necessary equipment buys or maintenances. In other words, this means surgery on the health system. The financial benefits of a short school education are snatched from the school's hands. There will be hundreds of millions in the coming years, and the work to improve school activities will show that they are clean and productive. That's a terrible lack of ambition, Madam President. When it comes to making donations on each university student, we will continue to fit the rest of the North countries. It's across the market, working in cooperation with the university community and appearing at the Scientific and Technical Council that the government now has some resources. Also, the financial plan does not provide any reliable way to improve the quality of the public markets, classes that are mostly women's classes - nursing, teaching, important future jobs. Although an agreement was made in September last year, leading to a new law on pension rights, since it is strictly recognized by a minister to correct and equalize these terms with what happens in general on the market, it is not. The financial programs also show cold greetings to youths. There is no ambition to improve our education or to prepare society for the dramatic changes that we are facing. There is no serious plan to improve the status of young people in a facility, although the government minister himself declared a state of emergency at that market several weeks ago and announced and organized an emergency group to be returned within a month and nothing has been heard from him. The union offers a simple suggestion for a solution that is not sufficient but that helps. We're building 1,000 apartments into the general rental system in cooperation with the labor movement and now free people from the poverty trapes of the rent. This is not enough to improve the situation of young people and parents. We need to remember that in this country there are over 6,000 children with want. So we need to strengthen the systems that support these groups. But the new government continues on the route of the older one to reduce the scope of these effective instruments for combating poverty and ensures a safe roof over the head. This is where I'm talking about child support and interest improvements. Transport and law enforcement funds cannot be met in any way, and so on. In addition, the government is not in charge of funding a good public service or that it is not interested in it. I feel the need to be presented in the discussion whether or not the role of the government is viewed when it comes to public service, who it is, and who should bear it. A greater proportion of the budget is actually giving the plan a drop-down score, with the permission of a president: ▪ This financial program indicates that new more things have not had enough time to prepare and implement financial programs for the next year... It is far off to say that the procedure and work on the new setting is acceptable... Therefore, the government has had a very short time to prepare the situation, bearing any marks, whether it is viewed by its own financial plans or by the aims of its individual causes. However, the government intends to submit to the threat of the crisis and accept the plan, but we in the smaller part will probably all be on the red button and refuse, because this is not an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u44	A respectable president. All I want to do is correct a small understanding of this longest economic growth in the history of Iceland. As indicated by the review of a man. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr in the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, it is only fourth place of six of the longest economy in history, if predicted. To gain the title of the most economic growth, there must be a considerable farther. But at least. So what is missing is the financial program that we are now discussing. There have been 70 reports from the majority of financial agencies that the financial structure is not just lacking, it's nothing. In order for us to make informed decisions, transparency is absolutely necessary. This applies not only to the council but also to the nation. People outside the community read and study government plans in the years ahead. Their plans need to be understandable, understandable, and understandable so that people can criticize government policy in a grammatical way. I'm looking for specific points in a talk. Secretary of finance, but the financial programme is a government resolution on the budget. What the government returned to the Generals and the Council adopted from here to the government means that the government is not permitted to pass over the budgets set in a budget for the budget. That's the perfect key. Budgeting is not just a strategy that can be decided on or off without an explanation. It's a real piece of paper that has a lot to do with the law of the law in the fall. A key element of financial agenda is the management policy of the environment. The aim of climate policy is to explain key priorities, goals, and costs, which are precisely lacking in this financial strategy, and is the main reason why we cannot really accept it. We don't understand where to go or what to do. This could be much clearer, more evaluable, and more likely to measure the progress of the projects listed there. The overall figures of the topic areas should be more differentiated into operating costs, legal jobs, pay costs, and monopolies, to name major factors. These are known sizes. The current picture and projections should not be a problem for the next year. These are very well - known sizes and are absolutely necessary for the General to decide whether we are in place, whether to reduce cuts, or whether to improve in any place. It will guide us in what questions we should ask in each subject field. The goal of financial planning is to create a frame for the next five years, and especially the next budget. When the next budget is published, no major changes, all in itself, are to be surprised at the income or expenses of each case. The point is that here the government comes to the council with a list of projects, which are actually involved in a particular project that the General Assembly has already committed to. The list was divided into the constant groups I listed, and then a new project. In contrast, the government offers proposals for funding these projects, to these constants, to committed activities. We need to ask ourselves about the funding, that the budgeting projects are further clarified. The government arrives at Generalis and says: "We're going to do this, and we're going to do it, and it's going to cost so much. Then we ask: Why? When we study a financial program, we will examine the list of projects, which are presented in a very strange way that I think it doesn't fit the numbers. The numbers put out. This is gonna cost a lot of money, and this is what we're gonna do. It doesn't match. Then we need to ask why we have not received any answers. And because we don't get any answers to that, we're gonna push on to ◯neοn, and we're gonna turn this thing over to the head of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u45	President. As it has been repeated, Pirates and I have requested economic-class information on this financial programme under official financial legislation. It is also necessary to eliminate the uncertainty of the financial agendas, as is shown by the number of accounts on the matter. It turned out last Friday that the information that Pirates and I have repeatedly been calling out for, orally, in writing and in committees simply does not exist according to the Ministry of finance. So this occurred at a meeting as a dog. Senator Pirata, Leví Gunnarsson's son, was represented by the Ministry of finance. We were trying to find out before the Senate if the written inquiries could be answered. The men of Pirathah, Benph Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Jón, Þór the Ólafsson of Ólaph, had submitted. What we found at that meeting was a big concern for us, but it was found that these budgets here, first of all, are not based on government financial laws in the preparation of financial programmes, and this financial plan is based solely on budgets for 2017, as well as on some economic factors. What remains is not clear. You can't get information about why the amount of money in a language field is given. We are concerned about this, and we may not really be able to explain in any way that it is not possible to explain simply to this level that has to be thrown down and that it is as it is that there are no professional practices under any definitions and may explain the tactics, all these baldness and forgotten lawsuits that fall under the financial conditions of the whole equation. No other law can be said to be here, for it is very clear in the law that it must be done, by specific means. That's not right now. As we have seen, there is great uncertainty among institutions and others that are normally used to legalize. Actually, this financial program has upset society, but I thought that such a frame should work in a very different way, that should create a vision and can be organized from a policy described in a frame like this. It is worthy of commendation when it is done well. I like both the chairman of the budget board as well as the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance to admit that this financial strategy is, like, what's happening. The chairman of the budget committee mentioned in answer to me, a running stream on the setup. When the premiere, which will be the next time we get a financial program, you can take it seriously because you can't take it seriously because the stream or general testing can't be listened to, as it was said, according to the chairman of the legal committee. I found it very helpful to talk to the highest. The secretary of finance and hearing that he is ready to respond to the demand of the Piranha and other members of Congress, even the major members, to state that there are indications that have come out of this process, and this has been a very useful process. As a genetic audition, this has been a very useful process. As a drip, this has been a very useful process, since very severe defects have been observed. I'm so happy to hear it. The secretary of finance is going to respond to these indications. I look forward to hearing his talk below to see how serious it is. Ministers accept observed indications, including ... froma financialadvisor. So I hope that more people in the community will see the importance of this being done right from the start, not tossing the sums, and the policies we will have to live with in the next five years, if we are to live well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u46	Madam President. I have been overseas in the office of the past few days of the financial agenda, but I have been able to monitor through the Internet and through live broadcasts and monitor the talks of members of Congress and to think that there is reason to thank for a good and objective discussion. What a joy it is to experience now the second development of a five - year financial program that, if it can be said, it is an important post in the budget and in the setting of the State budget! The first financial plan, in effect, slipped through the General. Congress may not have realized what it would be like to put much policy into it, but this year it is a different age. I'm only concerned about whether or not we are in some way the financial agenda is, because, of course, it's a series of lawsuits and frames. Of course, these are not perfect financial laws. That work remains, of course, if it is based on a financial program. Maybe that's what's so historic. We are molding ourselves in our careers. Right away. The Swedish Parliament's budget committee, perhaps our main work model, was told that it would take about 10 years to develop this process and polish it. We Icelanders are used to wanting to swallow things faster than that, but we are in the process, as has been observed in the discussions of both the representatives of the greater part and the smaller parts, and we want to learn from the process and follow it. I only want to use the minutes I have here to discuss the content of the financial programme, i.e. the political policies involved in it. Sometimes when you listen to a conversation at the General Assembly and even elsewhere, you might think that the world is divided into black and white, either new or socialism, profit, public or what it is, but I don't want the world to be so black and white. The five - year financial program shows quite well. This is the case with a slow approach to the earth. State affairs are being maintained. There's been an up-and-in. It is under way to counteract the eutrophication of the programme, but at the same time, it is being confirmed by a marvelous expansion, as shown in budgets for this year 2017, and to make a significant contribution. This is especially true in health, health, and welfare matters. I think there's a financial program here that just keeps going - well, should we call it the black and the white or what? This is a financial strategy of moderation, and I gladly sign the policies that focus on the health and welfare issues in particular, the priorities of a financial agenda. It's true that, as we're used to here in Iceland, we're in this endless sea of turmoil and underfishing. Now our main problem is extreme expansion, heavy pressure, it's pressure on the executive, it's pressure on the currency, it's work market pressure, etc. You feel that governments are always fighting to keep under pressure to work too well, or to try to save things when things get worse. The long - term methodology, the design and plan of five years, provides lines that show where you are going, is exactly thought of as having consistent influence. Although we haven't finished that process, I think it's very important that we're developing things, even if it's not perfect. That's why I'm glad that financial plans have come to this place. [[The president calls.]] I thank you very much for a very good and varied discussion about her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u47	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying whatever it takes. paritaprevir In his discussion about travel services, Ramídi Friðbertsson mentioned earlier, with no plans to add anything else to that discussion. I just agree with the exact view that we have repeatedly discussed in a financial committee. We're discussing a financial program. In fact, the last few days have been a useful discussion, I agree with it. In fact, sometimes it feels as if we are reading each of our plans. What we agree on and have noted is that we have quite a distance to shape the structure of this program, how we put out detailed information, such as not mixing investments and business ventures. The review of the financial Council shows that the translucency is not enough. We need to respond to that review. We all need to make a good note of the improvements we want to achieve so that we can be more able to intervening in our discussion and understanding that the ideologies of this long - term program can be the same. I feel that it is important that all the members of the fasting committee begin to analyze the classes under which they fall, thus giving their report on the program. That's a good thing to do. In the bright future, we are content with the increase in important issues being made up of. However, I cannot help but mention that I do not fully understand a discussion of private business and personal development. Such intents and discussions have not been carried out in a councilroom for the future. Rather, we are trying to identify the private business that has occurred in recent years. The aims of a bright future are to sharpen the legal environment around the sources that have been vague and that have sharpened policies and such. I would like to review some of the facts that I find important in this financial program. We are raising the largest public cost to health and health care and the cause of the elderly and the desperate. The rising rate for health care during the 2017 budget is 42 billion dollars. An increase of 22.5% per year. The increase in welfare at the same time is 28 billion, a 15% increase. As a result, there is an increase in drug and medical media intensity of 54% over a five-year period of the schedule, the largest increase observed in this schedule. This is the priority of the government, and there is a great need for structure in this fundamental community foundation. I would like to mention here in very short terms that in view of a greater portion of the budget committee, a health - care minister is asked to consider the benefits of establishing a special control of the hospital's operations. That's an idea we're putting on for a discussion. Never has it been specifically said that this government is a political government, as some have been referring to in this discussion. I'm much more impressed with the fact that there are experts in the field. I hope that we will be able to do well in this discussion, and it will become perturbing and come to a good conclusion about it. Finally, I'd like to say that there were a few points in the Committee's list of more part of the legal committee. One indication of design and format of the programme and, on the other, points to which we draw special attention. Many of these points were observed by sources of information and are relevant for specific topics. I think it's important to stress that the more part is to accept this amount of money and pay. On the other hand, we take up a few comments, suggestions for improvement, and suggestions for discussion. On the contrary, we're not giving this financial plan a failed rating. We're accepting her. In conclusion, it shows that we are coming to the earth with caution and we are working against the expansion, while at the same time we are confirming an expansion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u48	Madam President. I would like to express my joy with the discussions that have been here at the Parliament on the financial program that has existed since the end of March. The legal arrangement on public finance is now being made clear for the second time. Last year a discussion about the plan fell into the shadow of other matters, and as a result, it may have been coloured because at that time it had already been announced for the election. It is only natural that there are still some nuances, and I am the first to admit that it is. Many comments and comments have been made in financial discussions. A more thorough report was obtained by a financial body representatives, as well as a financial committee of high esteem, the majority of themes, and four minorities. The committees discussed the plan and gave opinions, as well as many members of the council have discussed it at the Assembly Hall. I think it's very important that we take advantage of this year's experience to improve our next year's schedule. A financial agenda is not a political issue and is very important to the wide variety of agreements. We can debate its contents, but we should agree on the setting. To this end, I have already started the Ministry of finance on the following factors: First of all, financial tips already being analysed, and the results of these analyses will be determined by the next autumn financial programme. Second, I have requested that a financial committee, both greater and smaller, be carefully reviewed and considered their comments. These indications are extensive and not all in the same direction. It can be listed in two parts, one in a material way, as well as a comment on shape and presentation. In particular, the latter comments to prepare financial programs next year will be considered. Third, I've decided that in the Ministry there will be intelligence of budgets elsewhere in the states as well as in other OECD countries and in what way these nations will put forth their plans and draw lessons from it to us. Fourth, the next budget plan will be set up on an excel form at the same time as the plan is submitted. This will include the main elements of the programme and the more advanced disunitions. Fifth, the next financial programme will show the expected switch between management and implementation in budget-to-employed causes of acidification. I'm going to introduce you to her. The budget of the progress of this work as resources and opportunities arise. Finally, point should be made. Parliaments report that the next budget bill will include an overview of the estimated budget of individual teams for three years. This makes it easier for members and others to understand who the underlying aspects of the programme is, although the aim of the programme itself is to set the budget on each topic field. The aim is to speed up the work of financial programmes under official financial law for the next spring so that more time will be involved in dealing with it at the council. It is important that this work take place, and it will include the Council in the work that has been done for the year. Madam President. The budget is a progressive strategy, which shows additional support, but it adds up in many areas. Many have said that although this has been improved since the last financial program, there may be more to the maintenance of the budget. Others want to slow down so that more can be done. That's where we've got to try to find the average gold. There are a lot of projects in this community, but the money's limited. There are more things in society right now and there are not many devices that the State has to keep running. There, the late bat has gained interest, and the government has a budget. Here we follow the old Keynes model that suggested that during a thaw, the state would collapse, in a contraction the State would add. And just so that we can add when the need arises, and there will be a need, in this program, an ambitious policy of subsidies which have already been paid over 10% a year, and that is how we save growth in the future. As a result, we may spend more on useful expenses, spend more for the citizens, spend more on projects, but don't have to pay creditors. But there are many positive factors in this financial program. It's not just resistance, it's also an offense. We go forward in transportation, which is added 20 to 25 billion from the last financial program. We add to the welfare system, we set out a targeted program to complete the Home Hospital Building, a project supported by all members of the Parliament, but now we have a plan on how we will do so, and we are going to complete it in 2023. This will be for the good of all the people of the land. I noticed in the discussions here yesterday that contributions were made to students in college elsewhere in the north and Iceland. It was said, not that the entire college contribution in Stockholm is much higher than that of a university in Iceland, but that there is more to contributions to a student. Of course it's normal, it's the student who counts, but when we think about colleges where we're adding donations to a student about 300 yous. K. that the real value of the season of the plan is we look at the total budget for school, i.e. That's how many people have what they want. The representatives of my section spoke. Of course, just as in the hospital system, the student is the patient, not the homes, nor the institutions. Plans are important, but of course, changes are possible. We do not know exactly what the future will be. Only in the short time that the council has been working now after a year's special occasion, some in some ways predictable, others have been completely surprised, and in total, we are talking about expenses of a total of 1,515 billion dollars. This will be true in the future too, for we cannot foresee everything. We will make mistakes with plans, and we must correct that mistake. There will be new needs, and then we will correct the plan. Nevertheless, this financial program is an important force, the guidance we will follow, and we will all follow it together. During the preparation of this program, we had a great deal of consultation with various parties, including those with whom we met. to the rural population, and it's important that everyone moves on rhythms because if we succeed in this, if we reach this goal maintenance point, the circumstances will arise for that, for example. Lowering the growth in society is one of the best reforms you can imagine. In addition, when a general level of worth gain is dropped to 22.5%, we offer large compensation for the entire population. The plan is a lot, it's progressive and conservative, but it's primarily a guide that we're supposed to respect together. We're supposed to respect this process, we'll try to take into account the comments made so that we'll get a better plan for the next year and we'll be happy about the methodology in the future. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u49	A respectable president. This is a bill that will enable them to sort out minor issues solved by an electronic signature. Two o'clock. pointed out that two things better could be said in the review of the Persian Guardian. First, it would be explained that when it comes to delivering a report electronically, it will be made clear that it is permitted to be handed over to the accused rather than to someone else. Second, in which the article says that a minister can further determine the implementation of electronic signatures and submission of a Regulation report, it must be stipulated. Not only is a minister permitted but it is his direct duty to discuss these matters in the Regulation. This new proposal stands for all the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u50	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panther from the General and Education Committee for a change in the law on the Icelandic Board of Education. The committee has discussed the case referred to the Committee after 2 Cor. Changes created more parts and smaller parts were called back to 2.r. The discussion discussed again the student's equal interest in loans for comparable studies and how to respond to some of the comments made by Kingdom Accounting. The committee noted that if you go to college, you can go to college in cooperation with a university and that this is in accordance with the current requirement for going to college. In order to eliminate any doubts about the borrowability of such a study, the Committee contributes to the change as well as the pursuit of foreign studies approved by a minister who is also borrowing. The Commission considers the importance of meeting contracts between college and high school education to work with the Ministry of Education and Culture. Two. The bill is suggested that those who are attending abroad will continue to have the right to complete their studies with the sum of the loan. In view of the changes in the Commission's proposal for a course of education, whether in a local or a foreign land, the Committee proposes the removal of the arrangement. The Commission stresses that on the global review of the law on the credit fund of Icelandic students, it will be considered to the comments of National Recycling on the legal environment of exodus and loans to such studies as her reports, the loan fund of Icelandic students, and the development of loans, June 2011, and Icelandic schools's firstborn, May 2012, as well as the loyalty of the criteria and quality of the study. The Committee then believes that at that overall review, the interest of the inhabitants of the country in the future programs of exodus as well as the impact of international education should be considered specific. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made in the Senate document. Under count of the General Information and Education Committee, i.e. Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason of the Year, Gentor Guindar's Gunnarsdóttir, Elínardóttir Sólvenólól Elinardótttir, Tótrjörn Einarsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Gunnarsson, Harðardóttir Hardardur, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir. The Brjánsson S., an officer of the Committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u51	A respectable president. I have to put a definite emphasis on a particular aspect of the committee's opinion so that it's clear. First, to a large extent, the Commission's discussion was about this level of students, which is found in attending the school is an indistinguishable high school program, a high school program that is being taught. If it is loanable, why not do similar studies in high school, but still under the merits of training? As it turns out, if you go to college, it's like going to college. It's like going to college. However, it is noted that study requirements will be ensured. Since this is a high school and high school education can teach only established courses, it is only natural to attend school also to be similarly confirmed and studied in high school. The requirement is, in effect, that the quality of the study is confirmed in the same way as in high school courses. What the comment says is that my study's benefits are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u52	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind to talk to you. Senator. He handled the matter correctly. However, I wanted to point out that the discussion of equality is twofold in this regard. A government review explains that students at one study were given a loan beyond the legal authority, no other students who did not have legal authority received such loans. That was the comment of the Kingdom Accounting Committee, but a discussion in general discussed the situation of high school students to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u53	A respectable president. I'll just sign it and say, "You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u54	A respectable president. This bill aims to respond to the National Reexamination Guidelines for improving the need to provide certain student loans. The changes made by the General and Education Committee aim to define the content of the study rather than exactly the places where it takes place. We've reached common ground so that the whole committee could be okay with it. There is the hope that secondary schools will see an opportunity in this country and start a conversation with university students to study the country in order for people out of the country who want to attend this study to do so here, in the three places where the study has been available. I agree with that. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request that it be necessary to examine further research, examine the content of the study, and consider the benefits of identifying it as a course of study in high school, both to ensure quality and also to ensure that the level of testing that students receive after study will be what they expect it to be. It was observed by the Committee that many failures to study with people who present it are presented in a way that only the university they are taught in connection with, there is no guarantee that this would be true of any other university. Many students who pursue studies believe in a different religion. They need to be sure that they will be reformed. Sometimes it is said that we are not good enough to commend in this room. I may suggest, before I finish my case, to commend those who worked together on this matter on a General and Education Committee. We had a conflicting view when the issue was taken up to 2rd. But it got caught, and we drew our new proposals, more things and smaller things, back between the 2nd and 3rd. and here is a common modification form which compromises both views. That is to say, with no intention of leaning upon any other member of the committee, why. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, who walked between us on the committee and found this neat way to bring a modification proposal that reached the core of what we in the smaller part of our body suggested at 2nd. without much of it would be too much for you to open the flood - dry loans loans to a high school education level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to say something with a what. A senator with regard to the cooperation of the Committee; it's a great pleasure that this has been achieved. The majority may have been concerned about opening too much loans in high schools and where the interstate would be gone. Now it's got the highest. Education minister announced a complete review of the entire legal environment surrounding the loan fund. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator would want to see inside that he must borrow from traditional high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u56	A respectable president. I don't think in general there should be a need for student loans to a standard college program available in public high school, where there are no schools and people are more often than not parents' homes, so there are other shoulders to be performed. It is this group that studies are set up to serve that I expect to be considered on the overall review that lies ahead. Older students are the ones who, like those early funerals, pursue trade, and want to go up to the next class for some reason. This is a group that would require a forward loan and need to be considered in the event of a full reexamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u57	A respectable president. Yeah, thanks for that. Of course, today's industrial education is loanable, and when high school becomes loanable, you wonder if you need to worry about the possibility of insecurities between high school students and late school students in so - called boarding school. I wondered, " Will I be more motivated to go to boarding school - even for young students who have these dates - instead of completing a traditional student test, because, as we have so many times, training today is not in the value of a student's test? ' I wonder what. A senator shares these concerns with me, whether there will be any incentive to further take up leave school because they will be fortunate beyond the traditional high school program that ends with a student's study.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u58	Madam President. I think that the young student's motivation to go to boarding school is already there, as noted, that I remind both of the Federal Accounting and of the school directors who came before the committee, that there were times when people were sometimes tried, that even if they were about 18 years old, they would be going straight into the public high school program. While we have two systems that overlap, there is a gap to be found in order not to break equals between people. One of the values of my opinion is to redefine the exit course so that it will end with a student's test, because the content of the training school today is all that a student's test is apart from being a student's test. I think it would be more honest to re-enact the course so that it met the same quality requirements and gave students the same knowledge as a student's test, but would be in this range that they have, especially to older students, who need support on progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u59	Madam President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a change in proposal from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. After the case was settled here after 2nd. there were opinions both from the Ministry and from the agencies that will be responsible for the collection, i.e. The rural community, that it would be better to give the opportunity to step up the currency in a way that would not have to add the payment by attaching it to a carload rather than to send a notification in another way, e.g. by e-mail or something like that. That's what the new proposal is all about. I'm gonna read it. ...after the a-a team 2. If you have a new letter, as follows: 2nd. phrases like: The price must be submitted by a written notification to be attached to the vehicle, provided to the driver, or successfully sent to the owner or driver of a vehicle. Thus, it is being said to contribute to a more varied budget than is now being paid. Under these writings, Gunnarsdóttir, Chairman of Pawel Bartoszek, guide, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bártísdóttir Haraldsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Teitur Björn Einarsson. Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case, but literature is considered authorized at 4 mgr. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a spokesman for his brief report. I came up here to challenge our opinion of a branch representative of the Left Green in the Committee that appeared in our special masks on this matter. We did not oppose the case and support its progress, but we reasoned that it was very necessary to avoid accepting this matter so that funds for the development of tourism would be available. Farmers need much of the valuables created by increasing tourism. Parking expenses, as required here, are services. Special requirements for services apply i.e. What can be used. In this case, it is only extended and stated on what may be used, so there is in no way the need for rural society has been met because of the increased number of tourists. How important it is, then, that this is only taken as a step toward taking a closer look at tourism funding. In the left, we've talked about coming and changing the charges in a fair way. We've been talking about an increase in the hostilities that go to the countryside. Above all, we have talked for collective and consistent policy of payment in travel services. Also, the expenditures given here must not be some sort of admission fee in the natural world. There is a very different debate whether to charge into the natural world, and there are a number of factors in this case that need to be more to swerve, e.g. how the price will be set up. Will it be less expensive in the parking lot that has already been built? The expenses paid today should not be used to pay expenses that have already fallen. Not a service charge. Will the pay be reduced when the cost of stock is fully paid and only the cost of operating? There are such questions that I trust will be taken into account in the future. However, we do not violate it, thinking that our rural communities should be given this authority. I just wanted to revise our position as representative of the Left Green on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u61	A respectable president. I just can't resist it. I just want to reason a little bit on these issues. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. I'm going to let the senator answer, and I know that he will. In some cases, I feel left green a little more than green. I'm very green in these chemicals, and I have some conviction that parking costs are a very green way to reduce traffic weights, to reduce cars being used. I confess that I would charge parking bills, even if I had to throw away the money that was being collected, just because parking costs would have the effect of reducing unnecessary driving and encouraging people to make good use of cars. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that parking costs are a green way, not just to earn money, but to change the behavior of people slightly. Or is his conviction that the combination, which then takes place through a different type of tax system, is it great that he prefers to apply it rather than the parking lot?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. It gives us a chance to talk about a common politics, which we may do too seldom, and we may lose ourselves in something else. I think I am at the foundation of a hearty agreement with a senator. If it's been said in my case, it's either. A senator misunderstood, or I did not get it right. I love parking expenses. I love parking bills so much that I think, for example, I do. that urban areas have to consider that the actual cost of parking is appreciated and that it is the users who pay for it. I've never understood why institutions offer free parking areas, for example. College offers free parking because the cost of parking is enormous. What I'm saying with this, when I say don't view the parking lot as an access control in areas, that discussion is much larger. Whether we're gonna run into an area, to form a bill into a area, then, in the form of parking bills, and you can't get into the area unless you pay a deposit, it's just a much larger discussion that needs to be made, and not in connection with a group authority to put on parking fees. It may well be that the outcome of such a discussion would be a price of some kind. I'm not gonna tell her who she would be. I am very anxious about whether people can be charged for their country's inspection. But I understand the ideologies back there. I understand the need for such ideas to spring from. I'm here to discuss that, but not under a case that allows local authorities to charge parking bills. [[The president calls.]] That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u63	Madam President. Yes, we came to some point in this regard. You don't necessarily have to be left together and be green. I can imagine that if we went to parking lots of parking fees that were of the nature of their ability to prevent people from going to a particular place in a car, they would, of course, be spending a lot of money on people depending on how much money they made. Yet, these charges are green. I'd like to ask you what. Because I want to get it straight for the publication of my committee opinion, whether my understanding is correct, my left greens will not violate the case because they will sit behind the case or if they will support it. What will be the final outcome for the council in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u64	A respectable president. In my opinion, the why is wrong. A senator in principle as to the nature of a left policy and the nature of a environmental policy if he sees it as some kind of contradiction. There's not much more left policy than a regular environmental policy. Few things are more successful when society as a whole handles difficult situations and puts money in them. There could be more left-hand policy on the state financial program. Governments, government contracts, tops. Governments, for within the left policy, it allows society as a whole to take on commitments to address the problems we face in the face of environmental problems. I admit I don't understand that mental exercise, and I don't know if it's only set up here to say that the left movement is sometimes more left than green. To me, it is an unbroken unit when it comes to these matters. Hv. A senator and I are gathered on the Environment and Transport Committee. We've been working on this thing together. I've recommended here the opinion of the environment and transport committees in my opinion. Hv. A senator should be somewhat informed of my opinion on this matter. Our attitude is reflected only in the payment of the case, but it can be read carefully through the record I was described here and should not surprise anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u65	A respectable president. There was something else vague about the subject of the bill at the time of the discussion. I gave talks where I was trying to ask if the parking lot was actually a tourist control. It never really came out, simply because they have to answer the question for some particular tourist location on the territory of a rural society. If the parking lot is full, can't anyone else come to the place? Won't cars be parked outside the parking lot as usual today? Will there be any surveillance, and will people be removed from the roads near this parking lot if they park there and plan to get to that place? This is a key question when it comes to whether the parking lot is a control or not. I can't imagine paying three, four or five times a week on a trip that costs a foreign tourist $200 per person, as the surveys show. I can't see it. I don't think parking costs really work as some sort of access control except if it's forbidden to park anywhere at the site except in the respective parking lot. Another thing I discussed in these talks was the need to assess the endurance of areas and places. The size of a parking lot must be determined, not just by something, but by a real estimate of what the places in question are going through. After all, the bill centers in some of the ways that rural society truly deserves, without consistent structure in the circumstances and services of different places, whether in private property, in the management of rural society or in official national parks, in a peace - declared area. Although we in the memory of the section do not violate the bill, we consider a huge task to be actually part of a mental structure in the tourism industry. A complete donation and resource access to tourism is something that has been called out for probably one to two decades, and it is still in the same process. There is no way to provide such work at any short time, create a comprehensive structure for resource use and, at the same time, resource protection for tourism. This is, of course, the nation's largest business path. If you compare that with fishing, then all other thinking has been going on for far too long, and we are going to derail it in many ways. There is yet another point I have pointed out in this regard; there is also a lack of a complete organization or cooperation, so that the activities of the future, footpaths, and other activities being carried out in these places, are of knowledge and skills. It too lacks much. Such reding, as I call it, even opens up to a variety of problems that we cannot foresee that could, for example, happen. If you are a member of a community, work at a tourist location, or you do it somewhere else, but there is no consultation, you are not consulted for skills. So I'm in this one and another danger that I hope we have the good fortune to avoid. But as mentioned, we do not violate the bill and consider it a chicken step. It is a work to do in the coming autumn and forward. We will, of course, participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u66	Madam President. I'd like to take this opportunity to mention flying for a few seconds or minutes. Thus, free disposal materials are being assigned to pilots. This was mentioned earlier in a talk. paritaprevir The Trausti of Friðbertsson, Nundus, said that flying has grown very large in Iceland and is likely growing in the years to come. It is a wonder, then, where this flying business may be heading if it changes that emissions are not going to be penniless and new aircraft will be difficult to find. As we look at a growing flying system that may be the only support for economic growth in Iceland, this should be remembered. It may not be as low as it already is. The analysis that would have to ask for an impact on Iceland's economy would have to consider the facts and possible developments I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law on tourist construction funds. The changes are primarily in the following: It is suggested in the bill that the role of tourism is altered by the fall of tourist attractions in general outside the scope of the law. If the bill is legal, the fund shall contribute to the construction, maintenance and protection of tourist facilities owned or in the management of rural and private partners. It is also suggested that the national construction programme for the protection of nature and cultural memory is generally not considered to be ablation of the fund. The bill also suggests a change in 2.g. The law on the government of the fund in order to reduce the number of directors from four to three. It is suggested that the fund's income be a contribution under each year's budget, and it will be reduced from the specific share of the host tax to the fund. This is in harmony with the new laws on government finance. The Commission suggests the change in the bill that the four executives will still be four, but not three, as suggested in the bill and that the fourth member will be designated by the minister of nature protection. The change can be seen in the Senate document and leads spontaneously to the fact that the first three words take place instead of four, and then note that following the words of an Icelandic member of the county: one according to the appointment of a minister in the field of nature protection. The committee agrees that this bill will be agreed with the changes I described. Under these things all the members of the committee write, in advance. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson. But we would suggest that this bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u68	Madam President. I'm going to measure for my changing proposal to the bill for a change in the law on the tourism standard. The proposal goes out to take places that fall between the current layer on tourism funds, i.e. that it is permitted to fall from an organization that exists today and is expected to pay the scholarship 20%, such as at work or in other ways. The suggestion reads: The person assigned from the European Commission's European Commission shall provide a requisite structure set out in the Regulation. However, a minister should be permitted to depart from the demand for a contract when it is administered for travel in private areas where no service is granted. Depending on the protest requirement, a sum of money can be taken up to a maximum of 8,000,000 dollars. Today, there is a problem with the tourism fund that accounts for the administration of some business or service at the site. However, places where people simply don't want to make money because the place is in their country, but at the same time, the land is damaged by tourism and they can't really keep tourists from getting access to free travel laws. This suggestion is intended to fix it and to sharpen its potential.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u69	A respectable president. I present the employment committee's opinion on bill-to-be, to legalize the state-of-the-air management laws on marine crops and on Fish Labs, the monitoring of weight-spottiffs. The committee discussed this in a number of meetings and made numerous members, including the Directorates of Professional and Developments, the Farmer and Fishers Association, the motorman and metal technicians, the National Relations of Iceland, Marine Research Institute, the Anti-Species Associations of the Sea Routes, as well as other members of the Committee. The bill is presented to strengthen the resources of the Fish Room to monitor the weight of the Marketing Authorisation holder. In 1st. It is recommended that if monitoring by the GDP is observed, a significant variation in the ice ratio in the catch of a particular species of fish is observed compared to the average ice proportion of the ship in the previous countries, the Fishing Agency should monitor all weight gains of the concerned weight of the Marketing Authorisation Holder for up to six weeks. If the weight loss holder has to be increased, according to the above, he will provide all the costs according to the fish lab registration. According to point two. The fish company should cancel the GDP for one year if there is repeatedly a significant variation in the volume of ice in the catch for ships as countries for the weight of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Those who have turned the Committee on the bill support the law, so it is important that the registration of sources be as accurate as possible. It was discussed that if the bill becomes a law, it will increase the dependability of marine resources and will have a warning effect. The Commission takes into account the above, but it points out that legislation provided by the Fish Room under the bill is ecstatic and is essential to the Agency's security of those under observation. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson writes this in advance and has the right to submit, or support, an arrangement for the case. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Councilmen Páll Magnússon, president of advance, Ásmundur Friðriksson, head of staff, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson, as we have noted, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústir, Logi Einarsson, Óli Kárason Kárison, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u70	Madam President. I agree with the bill in principle, and I think it is very beneficial to think that there can be a surveillance of the condition that seems to have been a considerable ghost that has been following the greeting system from the beginning. However, I suggest a change to the bill as it is available, and it is in my view that I took from the fish market directive, which is truly a weight - loss market, and added to it that, like the seamen's interest groups, I might be allowed access to those who are registered to the seagulls in Iceland. This would, in effect, mean that interest groups and unions and the like could follow more closely regarding companies that weigh their own earnings. It is, in fact, Pirata's policy on water resources that information is available to the public and that it is useful to provide the system with what it is today. But the suggestion is this: In chapter I, there will be a new article that will be 1. saying, After Section 5. The law will come up with a new article that will be 5th. a, as follows: The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) is obliged to provide an overview of the sold resources of each day, its buyers and its prices. They shall daily send a copy of such a summary. Then, if desired, they shall send a report on the sellers, the labor, the buyers, and the prices of the seamen. Otherwise I suggest that even if my proposal cannot be fulfilled, the bill will be accepted. I certainly think it's improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u71	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Committee members with a change in proposal. This is an introduction. A slight change is required mainly for texture, but in 1 mg. 2.g. The bill is proposed to Regulation No 37/2010: 236/2012, on the lack of debt insurance and specific aspects, will receive adaptation standards as determined by the joint EEA committee. Two. The same articles are suggested that the decision of the joint EU committee should also be legal. Based on the Commission's opinion, it is sufficient that the Regulation to adapt according to the decision of the joint EU committee to get the legal value but no longer validate the decision as a whole. So the committee suggests 2nd. 2.g. The bill will fall away, but it will be referred to in the paragraph to the EEA extension at the European Commission News of 1st. The article. It then suggests that the Commission is referred to in accordance with EU Regulation No. 2362/2012 of Figure 1 mg. Section 6. and 10th par. Draws into the introduction of the regulations to simplify their presentation. There is also a minor change that has to do with removing the acronym, e.g., at the decision of the fines. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes presented in the opinion. Under this, all the members of the committee, wow. Óli Björn's Kárason, chief of the council, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Sigbjörn's daughter, Jón Valdor the Steindór of Valdimarsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, in advance. Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, Will Bjarnason. Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir, in advance, and a Smári Mccarthy, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u72	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on the bill to legalize the insurance market. The committee was contacted by a representative of the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs. There were also reviews from the SEC and financial organizations. The bill is based on Directive 2009/138/EC (EEC) for the establishment and management of a business in the area of insurance and insurance, as well as the changes it makes by Directive 2014/51/ESB (◯Omnibus II◯). The 2009/138/EC Directive was included in the European Economic Area Convention with the decision of the European Committee No. 78/2011, July 1st, 2011. The proposal for the 2014/51/ESB has not been implemented in the EEA Convention. The principle of the directive was legalized here on the land by the insurance law, No. 100/2016. The directive contains measures on the insurance market. The directive's aim is to harmonise the legal environment for the activities of insurance companies and thus to improve the EU economy insurance policy, improve consumer protection, and ensure financial stability. The setting of the bill consists mostly of the installation of the directive. The primary objective of the bill is to protect the interest of insurance companies and gamblers. In order to reduce the likelihood that insurance companies will have financial problems, there are increased demands for governance, risk management and information, as well as legal requirements. In this case, more sources and demand for the UN are trying to ensure that the risk factors that affect the activities of insurance companies and financial stability are monitored. The bill contains detailed frameworks for the building of insurance insurance companies, evaluation of their condition of reluctance and monitoring, as well as the decision to monitor the SEC. In addition, there are detailed principles on risk management, monitoring procedures, information and ability to obtain information. There is then a set of provisions for the increased monitoring warrants of the European Life Insurance and Pension Fund (EIOP). There will be authority at the F.A. and EFTA. At a meeting of the Committee, the work programme of these surveillance agencies was discussed when it comes to insurance markets. The existing bill refers to further monitoring of financial corporations, but its bill is also for treatment of the Committee (111st case). The majority of the sum of credit, therefore, is the importance of the co-registry of the bills so that the clarity of the law is ensured. The Commission suggested that the contents of the directive had been replaced, either with insurance laws and with the bill, so it would be necessary to refer to the bill for a comment in the law on insurance management where they were released. This could eliminate definitions that were already in the insurance laws. The majority agree with that viewpoint and suggest changes in them. The Commission also showed the view that a minister should be authorized to refer to the publication of Regulation 2015/35/EU in English in the European Commission, and that the Commission should provide a warrant for the implementation of regulations based on technical standards to refer to their English publication in the European Commission's Commission, to end the implementation of the Regulation and technical standards further to the regulations of the Directive. The importance of such sources was then highlighted in the insurance law as well. The majority state that according to government law and law code, no. 15/2005, shall be published in the News of All Laws, Government Directives and agreements with other countries, as well as advertisements regarding their value, cr. 1.mg. 1st par. The law. This will emphasize that the matter is Icelandic, and it is the unsatisfactory principle that all the text of government events is in Icelandic, although it can be found exceptions in the laws on government and legal writing, cr. 2 mg. Section 4. The law. Therefore, differences from that rule should be used with caution. Hence, the majority do not suggest changes in the content and the importance of being clear and accessible to laws and rules. To that end, their publication must be legal and legal. In addition to the above modifications, a greater proportion of the items contribute to a number of adjustments in the way they adapt to language patterns, choice of words, or obviously incorrect references. Then there are adjustments to explain some of the principles more clearly. No further explanation is needed for this adjustment. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjordsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy were absent from the case. A respectable president. This is a bill that follows the procedure for the Council Report No. 916. They're in 24 teams and I'm not going to list them anymore, they're in the Senate document, and they're an integral part of this committee party. Under the heading "Subjects " on May 24, 2017, Awake! Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, chairman of the case, Brastur Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Sigurbjörnsdóttir Arbjörnótir, and Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur's daughter. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u73	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee's members my part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for additional financial cohesion control. The bill is about additional financial conglomerates monitoring, which are integrated enterprises working on both insurance and bank or investment activities, especially with regard to their own money, risk management and business in a corporation. It is based on the 2002/87/EC Directive for additional financial monitoring by loan institutions, insurance companies and stock market companies, which are part of financial conglomerates, with a change in accordance with Directive 2011/89/EU. If this bill becomes a law, it will be in Icelandic legislation on the implementation of additional financial organizations. Then the responsibility laid upon the Rapporteur and the UN will be legally established. The bill therefore suggests that if an additional control of financial conglomerates is tested in this country, an important financial market, the law is being given. There are significant changes that are primarily word changes and references. They are on the council document 922 and are in a total of 26 numbers. Under the committee, this is what Óli Björn Kárason, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Njáll the son of Friðbertsson, and Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason. Although Lilja Alfreðsdóttir was away from the hearing, Gísladóttir Ingibjörg Gíslidóttir was found for Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, who agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u74	Madam President. I've been searched and pointed out what. Marty's members haven't had time to discuss my speech in the past. Therefore I will make my remarks known, but I said, The aim is to speed up the work of financial programmes according to government financial laws for the next spring. I am delighted and obliged to declare that as with all other jobs, I will strive to obey the law, both the laws on public finances and other matters. I hope it explains this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u75	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of the license for Minister for Ministers on behalf of the State Fund to finance the construction of a sub-Valalah tunnel, law No. 48/2012. By permission of the president's permission, the bill's contents of the bill meet with additional funding due to the work being discussed here: This bill suggests that loans from a government fund to finance the construction of a tunnel under the Valain will be increased by up to 4.7 billion dollars. on price at the end of 2016, the amount currently estimated to be needed to complete the tunnel work. A financial committee has discussed the matter since her date on May 16 of the past. The members of the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, representing the Vella-Haf. and the members of the Statety Fund came to the Committee, reviewed the case, and answered the committee's questions. Like the World of Congress, and most of the nation all know about this case, there is quite a long, long history. I'm not going to say any more than I need, but I'm going to, by the permission of the President, read out the results of the majority opinion. I would like to first mention that, according to financial and economic information, a summary of the report has already been launched on the conduct and preparation of the entire procedure. It is in accordance with the opinion of the Committee that this report will be necessary to address a thorough review, discussion, the scene of the Generalis. In conclusion, the majority opinion says, with permission of the president: So with the approval of the bill, the main stakes of government funds as a lender would be to ensure that the project will be completed and the tunnel can be used. The majority of them do not take a stand on the continuation of the budget of loans and property, but they show that a share of the budget could inevitably be financed by direct funding from the government fund when it comes to recycling. The greater part is that when the future budget of financing is decided to come to General Assembly and it will be given a specific legal bill that will remain unchanged in 2021 when it comes to recycling the loan. The majority suggest that the bill be approved. Under this opinion, Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, president, and Hanna Katrín Fridrik's Friðriksson, vice president. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was away from the case, but literature is under the opinion of the fourth leg. 18th par. Organizations for the General Committees. Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, Njálri Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, Oddný new Harðardóttir Hardydurdóttir, and Theodorra S. Þorsteinsdóttir also published in the form of literature.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u76	A respectable president. I'm gonna have just a few more words on this matter. It is definitely necessary to complete this project. It is now a hole through the pagans, and there is no reason to leave it in the present condition. What is the point of a government law? State responsibilities laws are to minimize the risks of a government fund when it is decided to render Kingdom responsibilities. The purpose of the law, which is a law on authority for a minister to finance the construction of a tunnel under the Válla, was that the borrower would not have to contribute 20% of the total financial need of an assignment and that a government fund could lend for the whole project but not just 75% of the project as a law on State responsibilities are expected. The purpose of these conditions is to minimise the risk of state funds in risky investments, investments that otherwise cannot be borrowed from the public market. With this bill, the government fund takes all the risks of the Valaeon walk. Technically, there is no personal money in the company's Vállah tunnel ehf. because it has run out, haven't done the end, and the borrowed money. State funds are 100% responsible. The objective of the bill is to establish a law that will prolong this 100% trust in the state funds, which violates the purpose of the laws set to protect government funds, and thereby to pay taxpayers against the misuse of state funds by politicians. A financial committee has a prominent role here. According to law on budgets, including of loans and state responsibilities, says, by permission of the president: The Committee shall further supervise the implementation of budgets. This will include monitoring. making sure that the work of the budget is in accordance with laws and goals and is being carried out effectively and effectively. Here's a suggestion for a budget to go to the 3rd. The bill for a law known to be not subject to the responsibility. This is key. It is known that the loan will be canceled. It is known that the loan is a better loan through the government funds than if the loan was made on the open market, the difference is paid by all the taxpayers. It's not supposed to be like that. Yet, the law on state responsibilities says that a person who receives the Kingdom responsibilities should pay a rich fund a difference between government interest and market growth in the form of risk charge and responsibilities. It is very serious that a financial committee responsible for the implementation of budgetary funds on the behalf of the Generals agrees with the release of a bill that disassociates the government's defense system for financial losses. On the contrary, the responsibility of the committee is to ensure that internal surveillance and care equipment of the State work best at any given time. So the review board is not doing its job. According to my share, it is totally unacceptable that the Council performs in this way. The minority believes that the order of the Generals to complete the project we have to do in a way other than defuse laws set up to protect state funds' interests, e.g. by taking over the construction of the tunnel and financing it by means of a transport plan. What will be the result? Much has been discussed about the importance of increasing the respect and trust of the public before the Council. But is it not action that causes the Council not to have the respect and trust it should deserve? Should not the council rather nurture its reputation than damage it? By contrary to laws intended to prevent a government fund from losing a substantial amount of money, what should be considered a natural and professional process is avoided. If the General Commission agrees to dissuade the government's defense device, we might as well packed together and go home because the commission is to strengthen these tools, ensure strong internal monitoring, and to enforce the law. It is, in my opinion, impossible to increase the respect of the council by such measures. It is therefore suggested that this case be settled within the framework of existing laws and regulations. During the construction of a Valallian march, a decision was made to implement it in advance of other means of transportation, reasoning that it was under control. All the warning signs that it was realistic were ignored but have now come true. We're running out of action. As the law on State responsibilities says, the state's funds are successful unless they meet the following conditions: [...] If the need for loan is not met in a general credit market, - which cannot be met - ◯ and it is shown that the work is practical. - It's not practical, it's been shown. The objective of this legal bill is to provide transportation funds that would otherwise not be financed for the next few years. According to the bill, loans are being made, but evidence indicates that substantial sums of money are lost and must be viewed as a loss of strength or contribution to this transport. Thus, the approach to natural transport and the question of how this procedure would be applied in a larger country than in this region, and how to conform to other parts of the country, and how to control the financial expenses above financial resources if this was done everywhere. Isn't it the budget board that's following on behalf of the Generals that the Commission stays within the budget? Were not new laws on public financial matters used to strengthen the Federal Commission's surveillance? The bill is suggested to provide loans from a government fund to finance the construction of a tunnel under the Valaleha, up to 4.7 billion dollars. on price at the end of 2016, the amount currently estimated to be needed to complete the tunnel work. The source has therefore changed prices since the time when the bill is not being explained. The minority points out that the proselytists of Vella law march ehf. presentation the budget for 3.1 billion dollars. March 1st. However, more than a month later, 4.7 billion dollars are missing. to finish the tunnel. If the bill is to be legal, the smaller part is the need to monitor the use of the source so that no investing beyond what is necessary in terms of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that State Review is monitoring the implementation with the magnifying glass. Now we have a question: Is there any authority on the current budget to pay off this 4.7 billion? I don't think so. So, although this law would be approved, it is not allowed to pay this 4.7 billion. I don't quite understand how this is going to work. On the basis of the project. The bill's report shows that when it was decided to build a VLA tunnel, it was proposed that a panel canal and their financing be systematically sustained through collections of roads. It has been found that the preparation of the project was greatly lacking, requiring a 44% addition to the original loan. Such increases in loans have a major impact on the function of the halls. In payment of the case on a budget board, the chairman stressed that by providing the additional funding, it was being saved the funds that the state fund had already set up on the project, where it might not otherwise be replaced. In written answers to the memory of the part's questions about the project, the trust fund has confirmed that the loan is unlikely to be reimbursed by the president's permission: However, the rich trust fund holds there a good chance that additional financial loans will be reimbursed and some early loans. So it is still set on grounds that are not known to be successful. What's interesting about this review is why there is a good chance that the additional loan will be reimbursed but only some of the old loans. Is there not a fine chance that the old loan will be reimbursed, as well as none of the extra loans? The result, however, is the same, a loan that is well - known and has to be overwritten. Technically, the project on the Vella-hall tunnel is not a problem with the state's funds. The loan was not to be paid until January 5, 2018. However, in November last that period was extended to May 1, 2021, due to delay in the tunnel. However, this means that without additional financial resources, the employer will inevitably not be able to repay the loan at that time. Disregarding is highly predictable. And there are other factors that enter there regarding the problem of divorce. One of the things that need to be considered is the responsibilities. Vault tunnel ehf. it should be according to Article 6. the law of state responsibilities pays the dues of the commitments upon which the State responsibility rests. Accountability must be fully answered to the will that the individual receives, on the basis of state responsibilities, in the form of a more favorable loaner than anything in general that is offered on the market without national responsibilities. Accountability must be determined on the basis of an independent remuneration assessment by and without state responsibility and should be calculated by the head of the head due commitments as it is on average in each currency period. This law was not in the original laws on State responsibilities, but it was added by law No. 20/2011, of March 20, 2011. The minority points out that this law is valid because it has been decided that it will remain in the law and not be replaced as two other articles. The principle involves the Ehf Crawl tunnel. to pay market interest on loans obtained from a government fund. The minority cannot see that the government fund is able to lend to the company because its payment flow does not depend on market growth. The company must be held accountable under the law, but they do not, and they have not done so. Based on the risk of the project, where the credit rating is CAA1 or CCCC, depending on the Rapporteur's assessment, which falls down into the forecasting category, it should be lent to a growth rate of 13% above the risk-free growth rate. The State Trustment Fund pointed out this in his review of additional loans to the Vain March ehf. that, based on a cutoff rate of 9%, the pressures on unattainable growth would be 1,300 bp compared with the creditors Moody's and Standard & Poor's. By permission of the President, the State Trustment Fund responds to my request that the project is in no way within the scope of such a procedure. The majority have decided that this requirement of the law will not be removed, so the stress should be collected from both the additional loan as well as from the original loan. The minority feels that it is necessary to give a review of how to evaluate the sum of the pay given as Válés ehf. The law should be paid prior to the application of 2nd. the bill begins at the General Assembly. Which hasn't been done. Then there is a second benefit. Anyone responsible for responsible state funds should pay the highest-priority prior to each year's loan. The price to pay should be paid at the start of a loan, and it will flow into a government fund. The price of a risk should be determined by the National Accounting Fund, taking into account the risks that are considered to be of responsibility. Vault tunnel ehf. has paid 0.6% on risk fees in accordance with the financial and economic decision of the day. Not a state guarantee fund. The minority points out that in accordance with the Law, the State Accounting Fund is required to determine the cost and to believe that the intervention of the Ministry of Economics to its decision would be abnormal. The minority feels that a National Review should determine whether an investment that falls into a prophetic category should be 0.6% due to the need for any investment, then, should be paid 4%. When the ratio was checked, only responses were made to the ratio based on the length of the loan and the amount. It would be unnatural for long - term loans to pay high risk fees. On the basis of this loan, where due due in 2021, the loan must be short - term, and in view of the fact that it is classified as a short period of divination with a short due date, the risk rate should be very high. The minority also points out that it is unlikely that Vádala-lain channels are an ehf. Pays the company's credit fee in practice, where there is a chance that a section of credit will need to be canceled to the company is more substantial and that they cancel more money than it is now thought to have been paid on the risk bill. According to the information that the smaller part received, the company pays the risk fee every time the loan comes. In view of the financial status of the company, only the cost of the risk is paid with the financial status of the company, i.e. If the original loan level was to survive the project. So far, the company has paid nearly 160 million dollars. in a risk charge which reduces the financial resources of the company to do the same amount. Obviously, this calls for more loans than was paid, the cost of risk. Which doesn't fit. The probability of a 22% payment drop is shown in a basic field picture for the Vadalau gang after the tunnel has been used. As well as the report of the IFS analysis, by permission of the President, says: In view of a basic picture, a percentage of payments in 22% simply means that the management model does not work according to the criteria. This high probability of payment does not mean that 22% of the loan should depart, but much more likely to be a small amount of the loan reimbursement. The minority feels that it is impossible to lend money from a government fund on these grounds and that a financial committee cannot recommend it. It is necessary to look for other ways to lend or support the company if at any other level, it is planned by the Generals. One more issue, at least, that is important to consider, is a description account. In the 5th. track No. 11/1997, on state responsibilities, says, by permission of presidents: A responsible trust fund should be kept a suspended account because of the responsibilities given. The fund's unsigned account at any given time should provide a realistic view of the scheduled scripts...-◯ Substitution for responsible responsibilities has never been set up in spite of the orders of the law. The minority believes that the Kingdom Accountable Fund's assessment of the need for writing is due to future loans to the Venetian halls before 2nd. the bill begins at the General Assembly. Which it doesn't. The General shall have to have information on which level of government experts believe that the loan, whether directly or indirectly, will be canceled before any professional opinion of the loan and the government's legal rights can be made into commitments. In view of the information available, if the U.S. Council's decision to lend the loan is considered to be professional, it must be learned about the loss of the state's loan. Remuneration is an additional law on state responsibilities, said, by permission of presidents: The responsible servant should pay the fee according to the budget set by the minister. This will take into account the cost of spending and the evaluation of the responsibility. The payment will be given to the state guarantee fund. The minority points out that payment has never been collected, and a minister has never set the fee. The minority feels that a minister needs to settle this matter and that responsible workers need to pay the fee. It is unusual that in spite of the U.S. Reconnaissance and intent of the law, a secretary will not proceed. There is now a time for shareholders of Vellahester walk ehf. has refused to add more money to the society's main meeting to cover the above extra costs, i.e. mainly a matter of responsibility and a risk bill. The smaller portion feels that it should be canceled, since it is inaccessible and normal for shareholders to shoulder responsibility as such. The minority feels that the return of the shareholders should be placed first for a limited period of time that allows for the tunnel to be signed. It cannot be avoided in view of the risks of the project that the state's funds have more share unless the decision is made to sell the project and at the same time to dispose of its funds and risks. In addition to this bill, the government has decided that there will be a thorough assessment of the entire project and the reasons why the cost of it has been far beyond plan. The bill's report shows that work on the requested assessment is started and that it is expected to be in the middle of this year. The minority points out that this assessment is displayed and that what went wrong is already gone wrong. A political decision was made to build a Venetian tunnel, which was the end of a transport program that did not occur to carry out the project for the next few years. Therefore, all conditioning studies were lacking and the risk of the procedure was overlooked. In this regard, there is an enormous amount of hot water, cold water, and soft materials, all of which have had to be convened with intense cost and effort. We were warned of comparable failures in a private report, in a report by IFS analysis, and in the discussion of the legal committee at the time. The report offered here will not produce anything new. It is intended only to dust the very few who feel that assessment is needed. It is quite clear what happened, why it happened, and what the consequences are. In recent years, there have been some discussions at the General Assembly on the quality of legislation. The minority feels that there will be good reason for this discussion regarding this bill. In the context of this issue, it will not be overlooked that a greater proportion of the Senate monitoring committee with the implementation of budgetary measures recommend that it be approved. This points to a recent example of 5 billion. K. failure due to prompt treatment at the end of the last terms, change of the social security law needed to be corrected during this council. After this, back on the horse. Correction of the law on buying out the first apartment, available to provide for the end of this council, can also be considered. And also the advice of fools. In addition to this situation, under this Kingdom responsibility, there is a matter that the lesser part thinks should be taken into consideration by the Council. The minority believes that the Generals should request that a government inspection cross the building of an airport at the Akureyri Airport and each part of the Válla-hön walk ehf. is, in effect, in the work where the company operates solely because of the state's responsibilities. The construction of a flight battery that is not on the transport program for the next 12 years or so is normal, but money is spent on such projects. So the minority suggests that the bill will be referred back to the government, where it is to provide some solution that fits within a professional process and legalizes and legal requirements, and not to ask the General Assembly to violate all the procedures it has established, do not ask the General Council to violate the laws of State responsibilities. I don't know how this case has gotten this far. I'm asking members of the Parliament to consider their own role in monitoring. The Council itself has set up standards of government responsibilities, set out these criteria for monitoring. But we're asked to cross them back and forth, and we're just gonna say yes, okay. I can't believe the General is so overwhelmed. It is minimally necessary for a government to abide by the law, no question about it, to propose a motion to the Council, which then abide by law. That's all you can do. In turn, the General can decide for himself something else by making use of his legal authority. But that the government proposes that the Council violates law, that's just completely prerogative. And that I am not prepared to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. It is a good thing for a position to conclude this matter, as discussed earlier, and as the evidence shows. There is a lack of opposition to the end of this matter. It's all too far to be there. But I'm coming into this thing at the final stage or in the later stages. At this point, the discussion is mainly technical, it's legal, and it's about shape. However, I'm going to allow myself to ask a brief question about material, not about shape, but on material. I would like to direct that simple question to why. paritaprevir Björn Leví, son of Gunnarsson, explains his view to this investment in the future, provided there is a way of doing this and in a proper, formal, and satisfactory manner of ending this matter. What is his view of such projects? Do you think this is a good idea? Is this unwise? I myself am convinced that the national value of this project and its implementation is indistinguishable. I don't think it's possible to spend much better money today than for investments in roads, tunnels, bridges, and so forth. This is what we are calling for in connection with a financial plan. So the question remains, and I present it here: Is this a reasonable investment or unwise?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u78	A respectable president. Ask all those who carried out a transport program that was above this project when it was pulled forward, whether they too do not feel that they are doing something extremely important and necessary. Of course, all of the projects discussed are very important, but our priorities are priorities. There, the General decided to implement one program on the list for specific reasons that everyone knew would not be able to resist. It's got to be over, and now we're going to sign it again. There are other ways to solve this matter. As I said at the beginning of the talk, it is absurd to leave a hole in the tunnel and do nothing more about it, of course we will finish this. But we do it in a responsible way, with laws, regulations, and professional procedures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to that question was given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. In itself, it was a fine passage, but it did not answer my question. I realize this, so I want to reiterate my question. What's the stand? paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for such investment and for this investment, provided that it is completed? Do you think this is a good idea? Is this unwise? I'm aware of the situation as to how it was planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u80	A respectable president. I think there'd be one more answer for me to know a question. The senator, for I think my attitude toward this has been very evident. I don't know what was missing my first answer in this. It is not in harmony with the principles set forth by the Council. [[Up front.]] - I told you, like with all the other projects. All of this is necessary, but we put our priorities first. It's about finishing this tunnel. Great. It would be very silly to leave this hole behind. I don't mind. My comment is that we're gonna do it right. First of all, we don't have the legal authority to pay off this 4.7 billion that's expected here. In fact, that would require extra funds. These aren't the financial laws. I don't even know what to do with these laws. Yeah, we can pay about 4.7 billion, but we still don't have the money to pay it out, even though these laws are made. It doesn't solve anything. All I'm asking is, please finish this case in a decent way, because it's absolutely necessary for the population of the area there, for people everywhere else in Iceland who are thinking. Why are they not in a similar position? Why are Kingdom responsibilities loans not being paid for a double bridge in South Africa or a trajectory on the West? Why don't everyone go past the financial and financial resources that they did there? Clearly, it does not matter whether this is a practical procedure or not. After all, though not financially visible, all roads have been economically acceptable. State responsibilities laws focus on whether this is economically acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u81	Madam President. I keep silent about this case, and you're absolutely right. A senator who spoke before me, difficult, and controversial, and with them on the transportation projects of the past few years. I think it's safe to say. You can agree that it is critical to see how this was done in its own time. I have not failed to claim that I am, i.e. how this case came about. But that does not change the fact that here we are. I like it. A senator carries some serious things on the table and is concerned if his entire system agrees that we do not compromise the law, as the senator claims. The state trust fund has not said that it is a violation of state responsibility, as it were. A senator says. It is his conclusion and interpretation of the available data, but it is not clear in the text of the Kingdomty Fund that certainly recommends that we do this. A trust fund also says that the possession and such things can be considered. It was decided on the part of a minister not to do so. We can criticize it, whether it's more reasonable that the state's funds have more to do, in view of its total funding, almost at least and the risks as attributed to the State Accounting Fund. It also points to the fact that the country has more things in its tunnel, that it is more reasonable to repay the old loan because it may result in the near loss of payment, very little if the loan is reimbursed in terms of what is available today. It goes down a lot. At least it's not 22% of the situation today. I'm well aware that me and what. A senator will never be able to find a common conclusion in the interpretation of what is in our heart. It's okay. It's just gonna be like that. At least I have chosen to read from a different result from the Statety Fund, as most people seem to do. But that still worries me. Tomorrow we will have a meeting on the subject, where we will find answers to more questions that have been raised. I think it's very good. As noted in the minister's speech when giving the case, he intends to have the matter examined from the beginning to the finish. I don't agree that there is some overgradification, as this shows, or useless, not at all. I think there's something we should learn from. If we fail somewhere or think we did, we should go over it, just so we can write down exactly what. I was also interested in the claim that all preparatory studies were lacking. If we look to what has been going on with us so far, there have been some things. Certainly it's the biggest anomaly, so it can't be overlooked that it's the biggest anomaly. An overseer who has experience in walking to 30 years in this country has said that he has never had so many incidents in the soiling of his life in which almost all happened. We must not forget that the road was in charge of this project, so we conducted it as with all other assignments. We know the abnormalities that came up there, a lot of hot water infusions, a lot of heat, a high echogent which was a continuous, big crash from failure, and then the cold water that came after the collapse. When we look at a tunnel in Iceland, maybe one or two of these things have come up. In the stratosphere came up a great deal of water, as we remember. It also happened with the creations in both North and Bolungarvík, etc. There's been a few things. However, in view of the fact that this has often been held in a pita, it was interesting to me that preparation has not been enough. Some have claimed that more studies revealed this, others say that it is not. In the days we saw a tunnel in Norway, a measuring tunnel in the Thale, where Norwegian tunnelers experienced for the first time an enormous leak. They have never experienced such things before. I don't think it's been too bad for you to do that. I don't think it was too good to do that. Some things you just can't support. That's where the Scandinavian contractor's office is digging. A tunnel similar to the one we're talking about is being constructed around seven miles, seven and a half. There were about 3,000 liters a minute that leaked out there. Of course, much more in Vella-hallways, certainly. There's been a delay. It was a joy in itself that they were able to prevent the leak at the time of the explosion through the Baal tunnel. This seems to be bigger than ours and we're talking about a business and situation where we know there's a tunnel all over the place. I don't really want to think that this project has been misinvolved in the first place. In terms of how the matter got on the program, I have not questioned that it had the right to do better, how the counsel was. Of course, such things should always be extensive and well discussed. What I've said about this too, and we're supposed to think about: "We want to get on this kind of project, i.e. such mixed projects, private projects with the responsibility of state funds, etc. or how would we like to examine it? A Secret Service minister has proclaimed projects that might as well be classified as something like this. Then I think it's a good thing we have this story that we want to watch and learn from. But I'm not sure it'll change something about the situation right now. I also don't understand that people assume that this is money, that is, of course, borrowed. It has often been the case in the case of a tunnel that has been taken out of parentheses. It has not been meant to affect other transport projects. That's why we have, for example. The negative status of the road type was being discussed because at the time someone decided to set up projects that were not to be introduced into the transport program. It can be critical, I'm not going to argue about it. People may feel that they are critical, but they have been. Nor is it given that the money borrowed and borrowed at the time would have been borrowed from other projects or would not have been in a box that could have been used in other projects. I think the misunderstanding is that if it hadn't been carried out, the funds would have gone into something else. There's nothing at all. I feel that it is important for me to meditate. I can agree with things that are critical here and there. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is critical. I think we have a lot of that to look at. But I don't think it's gonna be any good for a state fund or project to send it back, and I don't think that, based on evidence, we're violating state responsibilities. But as I said before, I hope we'll find out in the morning at a meeting of the Committee if we'll cross the law here. I'm just going to hope it's not because we don't want to think we do it. There are a lot of things in this, though. It's a means of transportation that I think we should discuss, not just attach ourselves to the form. The overall safety profile is increasing, the travel time is reduced, the work and services are increasing, the habitat conditions will improve, and this will have a positive impact on urban development. This will also lead to an increased selection of new habitats, which are not present today. It will be safer to access health care than it has been. Now we know what's in there that there's not a midwife in a vast area, just east of Langanes and north of Akureyri. It's even Part of improving that condition. When we were e.g. moving health care was part of increasing traffic security, and that is true in many areas. I'm not going to argue that it isn't. I think it's kind of forgotten when we talk about it, even though it's very important. I'm not gonna make it count that it's important. The majority of the committee have also brought up positive points that have not been stated by the senator and reviewed the analysis of the advisory company, such as the State Accountable Fund. It shows that government funds get the best approval. There is a lower requirement for growth than private people would do for the project. It is also suggested that the State will turn the current project loan into a long-term loan with stress. We can debate the pressure, and in part, part of the Statety Fund laws were removed from the relationship at the time. That's it, and it's critical. I completely agree with that. But that's the situation. This is actually being added to this project to complete it. I'm going to pay attention to what's been presented here and what I understand. I'm not gonna talk anymore, Mr. Honorable President, about this matter. This is a matter that one would have wanted to have been different in many ways. There is always uncertainty in all projects, especially a funeral. It is so with our blessed country that it is made so, and not just here but in Norway too, that it seems to surface despite careful research. We cannot guarantee all such things, nor can we determine exactly what we pay back, as well as, unfortunately, with our mortgage. I'd love to, but it's not like that, and I don't think we can guarantee it, but in this. We need to learn from this process, from the way it has taken hold of us. There may be some examples, though not exactly an example of such projects, of the road type that has advanced considerably. It is quite clear that we have such projects that the government fund has had to pay more than was originally expected. It is a form of variation that we face over and over again. But these are big numbers, and I'm not going to belittle them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u82	A respectable president. Let's just start positive. Yes, it is possible to reach all these positive points without breaking the form. Why do we choose to do this in the wrong way when we have the option to do it right? If you talk about learning from the process, now is the time to do so. Let's just learn from the process now and do it right now, but don't do it wrong, exactly as we did last time. The number of unexpected abnormalities could have been reduced by further preparation. Hv. A senator rightly says that this is far more unexpected than usual. I think it's interesting and I want to ask you why. A senator of legal rights to pay this amount from a government fund. It is not authorized to pay in advance of the government fund. You can't agree to a budget in the fall to pay these billions and to start paying them now. So I'd like to hear from what I hear. A senator how we solve that problem. Hv. A senator noted that there may be no payment. That's wrong. That's due day 2021. The movie analysis of the State Accountable Fund shows that if the government keeps the project for about 40 years, it will pay, but then the market interest will be calculated from the state's budget and the market interest loan that has not been paid so far. All we see right now is that it's 2021 currency. There's bound to be a takeover. How it will be taken over by either sale or complete public command of the tunnel is not possible. But it is very likely that they will have to cancel some part of the loan, as shown in the review of the Kingdom Accountable Fund, and we are no better off at it than we are now. We may as well do this now instead of throwing it over to the next terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u83	Madam President. Do the wrong thing. Again, the senator tells us that a better preparation would have prevented them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u84	Turn them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u85	- Or cut them down. It's his statement, just as I say to him right here and now, as I passed through the Norwegian tunnel: I can't say that longer preparation there or here would have returned that we knew more about the tunnel, the Earth or the mansion, or what it is now, than when we left. You can't say that you are. We could have studied for three more years, and we may not have come up with better results. Still, we would have had the exact same problem. There's nothing to say it hadn't happened. There's nothing that says it couldn't have happened. But how long can we justify research? How much will these cost before we begin each assignment? Do we want to investigate the next tunnel for three years? If we feel that we have reached a certain conclusion, what standard should we set? Can we get started, or must we examine more to be sure - about what? I can't quite figure out what I'm talking about. A senator can't say any more than I do. The laws discussed here and the legal authority: The secretary can sign a loan agreement. Likely, he will, signing a loan agreement, as the laws for state responsibility assume. Then he needs to seek this legal authority. This is not to say that he is necessarily paying it out now. I haven't heard him mention it. He's talking about signing a credit card. And like a cot. A senator knows that the contractor needed confirmation that the government would continue to lend money so that the contractors continued. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u86	A respectable president. It will be interesting to see where that coin comes from and prevents the implementation. It was mentioned earlier that I mentioned that there was a broken law here. No, I mentioned an example where the law had not been performed. Perhaps it could be interpreted as saying that the law was being violated. They do not collect fees, they collect risks in strange ways, and so on. During discussions with community centers on this matter, Dr. Gunnar Tómasson, with permission of a president, says: The Supreme Court has decreed that loan without significant guarantees of reimbursement will be reimbursed as agent fraud. Iceland's Constitution does not allow a penalties for the Minister's punitive fraud in the form of loan fraud without significant insurance for reimbursement. Why don't we just make it work? Just send it back to the minister and he can bring it back with the planning?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u87	Madam President. Hv. Senator. These are great words, accusing the minister of fraud. [["Not my word...]] - Well, it's getting used to what someone's saying in town. At least there's a very large word in my opinion, saying it's an embezzlement. [[Up front.]] Hv. The senator will then discuss in the morning with the State Reconnaissance to see if it is considered a federal fraud. If that's the case, we'll have to rethink the situation, won't we? In my opinion, this has not been revealed in the data that we have in our hands to support it. But maybe I'll have to watch it again tomorrow. Actions will cease if there is no guarantee that the government fund will guarantee additional loans. It was the words we received to hear on the financial committee on the basis of a contractor's work on this matter. Not that they'd have to be paid tomorrow. That was not my understanding of the evidence we have. At any rate, I think it would be enough to cover the loan statement so that the contractor there thinks he can continue and not have to cancel the contracts. But if a senator has any other information about it, it would be good for us to review it on the committee tomorrow. This is an occasion for careful consideration of the Kingdom's interests. I think this will be done in view of the results of the report on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u88	A respectable president. I'm here taking a commission from a health committee on bill to legalize the law on housing partnerships, No. 66/2003, with subsequent changes, on the financing of housing partners. The committee arranged for visitors to meet with them and reviewed reviews. The bill suggests a change to Section 5. No. 66/2003, with subsequent changes, so housing partners will continue to be permitted to borrow from financial companies and credit institutions as well as to receive sponsors and donations from partners, but at the same time, they will be permitted to borrow on a general market as well as to finance themselves with the publishing of bond bonds. In this way, housing partners will have more opportunities to choose the most favorable financing which is best considered, with the best interests of the partners at work and taking into account the risks of financing. As a result, housing services are likely to become self-sustained, which increases housing security. All the reporters rejoiced at the change suggested in the bill. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Under that direction, president of the Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Arnardóttir Lara Eagledótttir, Brjánsson S.E., Halldóra Mogensen, Sverrisdóttir Sverisdur, Elínardóttir Sólnardótnardótir, and Sigfússon Sigfugurson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u89	V.E.G. President. All I want to do is come up here for a brief talk and explain the importance of what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. A matter that took place during the last term is being completed, but the government that was then doing a very extensive job in caring for the housing market. It was one of the main objectives of the government that people had a real choice of farm shapes and were working on legislation on housing partnerships that had the goal of strengthening the status of their partners and giving more power to the inhabitants of these housing partners over approved and decisions made within these communities. I'd like to be happy to know that this is an even stronger foundation for these partners, that they can finance, among other things, in a public market that can even later pay down rent to the population. This is a good thing, and it helps us to make real choices about farm shapes. The law on housing partnerships, as mentioned earlier, was part of a very large package that had to do with local rented apartments, that there were large extra mortgages for tenants, and changes in rent law. It is very important to protect these laws set up during the last term. I'd like to be happy to know that this matter is on schedule and that the discussion is likely done about it. I hope this is a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u90	A respectable president. We have 39 cases on the program. When they're jumping over the front and back of the program, it's very difficult for people to get into the discussion they're trying to follow up on, because things are getting really fast here. Please try to follow the schedule or let us know with sufficient notice if it changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u91	The president apologizes that because of the incompetent circumstances in this building, where members of the Parliament are meeting and finishing matters, there is a slight change in schedule. I'll read to Congress now what kind of order it looks like right now: Twenty-seven will be considered, 29 will be considered, and then 28 will be considered, and 30 will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u92	A respectable president. I present an opinion on the Management Board with a change to the bill to correct the change in waste management laws and laws on environmental pollution measures caused by the single use container for drinking products, EEA regulations. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of people, including The Environment and Resource Ministry, the European Union of Iceland and the Environment Agency, and the reviews of the case came from a number of rural communities, Hafraggjörður farms, the National Institute of Health, National Protection, the Union of Iceland, Waste B.S., and the EEA. The bill was previously submitted to the Council of 145th, a 670th case, but it did not succeed. The main changes to the bill since its contribution are expected to be no longer responsible for the pressures of administrative guilty due to violations of waste management laws. The bill is intended to introduce the EU types, make necessary corrections on the tracks and previous inputs, making them a change to the regulations for environmental pollution from a single-use drinking container, No. 52/1989, allowing the implementation of organisational reforms for aluminium, including is needed because of the loss of the global market price on the Icelandic crown. For further information on the subject of the bill, see chapter 3 of its report. At a meeting with the Committee as well as its review of the matter, the EEA protests that in the existing bill it is not to find regulations as the home of the Agency to impose governmental guiltys on specific rules of waste handling, as was the bill submitted to the last Parliament. It is important for the Agency to establish such sources as at first, where waste delinquency is becoming increasingly common and more extensive, and there is an urgent need for effective means of decoupling, especially with regard to general safety impacts. The Ministry's opinion that it is better to wait by the introduction of the law to the next legislation to introduce and introduce a comparable law on loyalty and pollution prevention, if not reasoned, and there is no need to wait for its introduction. Other than this, the Agency approves of the bill, as it has been worked in a broad agreement with the Agency. The Commission has received the information from the Ministry that it has been decided to wait by the implementation of the Constitution principle for a time, especially by the criticism shown on necessary steps and time frames. The Minister introduces the Allegorical Council order of a task force and status at the 2017 fall. Two. 20. The bill for validation is found instead of 2.mg. 64th par. a should be on 4 mg. Was the law necessary for changes made by bill to correct a change in the laws of loyalty and pollution. As a result of the changes made by the majority of the Committee to do this bill, it includes the continuation of the publication of the worksheet in the hands of a healthcare committee, it is no longer necessary to maintain this validation principle. So the committee suggests 2nd. 20. The bill will be removed. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 2 mg. 20. ... goout. The committee has discussed this matter, as we have seen. Haraldsdóttir, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion under warrants at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Other committees who sign this are why. Councilmen Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, chairman, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, as we have come here, Daníel E. Arnarsson, Brynjólfsson Brynfjölánsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Pawel Bartoszek, and Totta Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u93	A respectable president. I thank you for your presentation. I agree with what it said. We wrote under the opinion of the committee together. I was just about to stop at what is my understanding and others in the memory of a warrant for the pressures of government fines. As far as I'm concerned, I agree with the EEA that it is important to legalize such a warrant as early as the number of waste illegals is increasing and more extensive and the need for effective decoding measures, especially with regard to general safety impacts. Since the Ministry has informed us that it is working on the promotion of the administrative body, both in this case and in other cases at the Ministry Department, we agreed that it was the right course to direct these issues. Like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in and read up from the Commission opinion. So it is a great deal of emphasis on our work in terms of government fines, but we considered it wise to take a whole lot of things into account, and this is the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u94	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of a change to the bill for the change in rural income law, No. 4/1995, with subsequent changes (a special contribution from an equation fund). The committee discussed the matter and has been contacted by Hermann Sæmundsson, Ólafur Kr.. Hjörleifsson and The Guðna Geir Einar Geir Einarsson from the Department of Transport and Department of Transport, representatives of the Union of the European Union of the Icelands and the Federal Union in the South, from the Santa Union of the Year, City, Civility, National Society's Union in the Northern West, the Federal Union of the East, the Eyllium, and the rest of the rest of the Union from the Allied Union of Iceland, Compatibility, City, Dalasavour, Far Away, the Four Continement of the West, and others, such as it may be published by this magazine and by the people. The bill suggests that the income-industry treaties of rural society are added provisionally, which includes the provision of an equation to provide a special contribution to rural society, which further corresponds to the percentage of government funds of special financial companies, a so-called bank tax under the law on special taxes in financial companies, no. 155/2010, from the middle of 2014 in 2016. Remuneration will be divided between rural enterprises in accordance with their share in the total response of 2013, 2014 and 2015. The objective of the bill is to offset negative effects as an assessment of special property savings and its provision for the payment of the mortgage and for housing supplies, dr. Law No. 40/2014, has an out-of-study partner. Was the route taken by the bill determined by an agreement made by the former government and the European Union of the United States and established by the approved administration of the Union from 27 June 2014. Similar prime signs were submitted to the 144 and 145th legislatures but failed to succeed. For this reason, it was decided to keep the amount of money in an equation from year to year that corresponds to the amount of money the fund should pay to a local partner according to the bill. In discussing the matter, it has been stated that between partners, there is an inunification on the projects proposed by the bill and the legal action of keeping the previously mentioned funds in the fund from year to year. The Ministry has responded to questions about the legality of the action by means of a memo mentioned in the introduction, showing that the measures are legitimate. According to the Commission information, the amount of money that has worked into the equation is due to the stress of the bank tax and should, according to the bill, be paid by rural communities in accordance with a share in the overall response of 20133/42015, about 1.3 billion dollars. Undivided, they were to be taken into account in accordance with the general rules of the law No. 4/1995, but behind the bill there is a view that it is justified in taking the money out of parentheses and assigning it in particular to rural areas that will be taken out of response due to specialisation and its assessment, as above, will be replaced. Because of the inconsistencies available on the subject of the bill, while the need for the end of the case was greater, the Committee went to the Ministry for reconciliation among local members for compromise. If the Ministry were to move on, half the amount of money placed in an equal budget by the bank tax would be distributed according to general regulations and half in accordance with the local partner's share in a total answer as expected by the bill. According to the Commission, there has been a greater degree of reconciliation in this way among rural society than was about the bill unchanged, although there are still some nonunion. The committee believes that it is important that the bill succeeds and that a greater reconciliation is achieved with the compromise proposal. The committee suggests that there will be a change in the bill in that case. According to the above respected views, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ◯ Instead of verses 1 and 2. 1st par. Enter one new paragraph, as follows: In spite of the 9th requirement. the balance fund will give a special contribution to rural society in 2017 to a sum of 650 million. K. which should be directly divided according to their share in an entire response in 2016.◯ Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottsson Proppé and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson are signing this opinion in advance that they believe that by means of the compromise of the changes made by the Committee, the state was in part at the agreement made that rural society would be replaced by a loss of income because of the implementation of special property savings, parr. Law No. 40/2014. It remains that the Kingdom will fulfill the promise that the loss will be fully restored, which must be done by means of a different route than the one included in this bill. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who was absent from the case, signed this as a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. The activities of the Council of Parliamentary Committees, and with the objective, he believes that the balance of the equation should generally be taken into account in accordance with the regulations of the income-involved organisations, but in this case it is justified to follow a compromise course. The members of this committee are vice-president Pawel Bartoszek, Ásmundur Friðriksson, head of story, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, in advance, Birgir Ármannsson, Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir, Góna Bragi Sveinsson, with warning, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, in advance, Óli Kárason Kárnson and Vilmimurmurmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. His overview, as well as his point of view, only to the point that he came to the close of his discourse, which is based on our committee's list. We represent the left green in the head. The Environment and Transport Committee is pleased to be paid according to the agreement made with the communities in its time, but we believe that by this bill and the change is not fully achieved with that agreement. It is too far to trace the details of this agreement. The fact is, government funds decisions caused the rural communities to lose income, to vary from country to country, and were agreed to make it up to them. It has been found that the way we decided was not right. I think we all agree that we have learned from the fact that we should not go that way. The treasure of the congregation is very important, and we are to protect it. Therefore, it is not appropriate to stir it by going some specific route. The need for this, however, is now, but in this case, in part, and only in terms of the total amount. Such efforts are made to negotiate with those who have criticized them. However, it remains that the amount paid according to calculations is 1,300 million. K. There's only 650 million in here. K. the remaining 650 billion are available to the farm members who suffered the loss of income. K. As representatives of the left green, we view it as the government, our government, the government, to find a way to live up to that agreement. I would suggest that it be done in a different way than through an equation fund, but that doesn't mean it's over. Although the agreement was only oral in its time, there should be a verbal agreement with the State. The State should be accustomed to having a respectful attitude toward a verbal agreement. We view and express ourselves ready to take part in the work that must be done when a council meets in the fall and finds another way to do so but to use the balance fund. Other than that, we agree with this opinion and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u96	A respectable president. You're absolutely right about the last speaker. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, of course, is not over. Thus, many rural communities have deemed the right to seek justice in court, and this conclusion does not mean that it has been solved or prevented. I sign this opinion in advance, as one leading man did well here. I do, however, clearly with a bad taste in my mouth, for I believe that the rules of economist should not be doubted, they only apply, the funds that go in there should go out by that rules, etc. By the way we have come, we have a promise to save. I repeat again and again that, of course, the matter is not over. Now I think that me and what. paritaprevir Yet, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé does not share the view of how to complete it. But that is a very different matter. However, I am stressing that the committee meets with a discussion between the 2nd and 3rd, taking the final discussion on the subject. As we often see happening at the finish line, this is often so when information is received and something new happens. I think there is good reason to do so, Mrs. President, and hence ask the committee to come briefly together for dinnertime, for example, of course the chairman of the Committee to conduct it. I think there's good reason to take a little more careful before it's finished here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u97	Madam President. I'll start by thanking you. A messenger for his speech and answer here and comment. paritaprevir Kolbes Kolbeinn's Proppér, too. We were able to arrange for the changes in the committee that may have been the first step in some sort of neglect of this matter. But I have felt that it will not be over without some extra government development to these rural communities. In fact, that is not enough. Therefore, the courts may be able to determine all of this process and what is now the right thing to do. That's why we've joined together on this committee opinion and the proposed changes. The Environment and Transport Committee, also represented by the Agency in its last meetings. Now we'll see how this case goes forward today and tomorrow. But I'm at least aware of what's happened here, and I'm in a committee party from the night. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u98	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee on Environment and Transport to adjust the laws of loyalty and pollution, with subsequent changes. This bill aims to implement the 2010/75/EC Directive for industrial emissions. Among the main changes made by the bill are the transfer of work sheets from regional health committees to the EEA, recording of the registration criteria for the specific categories of employment and the untimely leave of work. All these factors that I have mentioned here were highly critical of the Committee's discussion, and I'm going to bring in these three specific points and account for the work of the Committee and the subsequent adjustments. First of all, work permit version. The Committee believes that it is right to respond to the criticism reported on the implementation of projects from the National Institutes of Health to the EEA and suggests that there is a need for more diagnostic work and increased consultation with the relevant partners in this case. The Commission suggests that the case will be adopted at the Department's scene at the General Accounting of the Law, which the Committee has been informed to request until the next year. Only about registration requirements in place of employment: In the bill, as I entered the previous year, it is suggested that a minister be allowed to decide by the Regulation that the job activities listed in the Annex II◯V to the bill should be subject to registration rather than a license, which is the principle of all occupations of the law. This change has, among other things, been criticized by the National Protection Agency and the European Union. On the other hand, the change has been welcomed by the reviews of professional representatives who feel that it involves a need and an emphasis on order. The Commission has noted that since the year 2000, there has been a value for ads from the Environment Ministry on a list of contaminated activities that are not required for a detailed application procedure. The advertisement has some sort of registration requirement for a particular simple job comparable to the one listed in the Annex III◯V in the bill. Actual change from the current project, if the bill remains unchanged, therefore, served to protect especially the activities outlined in Annex II. In short, the Commission believes that it would be right to step down to the ground and suggest that the work in Annex II will be the exception of a secretary's warrant for the registration in place of a license and that this provision will be used only for smaller types of activities that are not identified as a threat to environmental pollution or other causes. The third factor involved in untimely work permit: As I entered here with the bill suggests the change in the current system of work to be authorised under the laws of loyalty and pollution to be temporary, not temporary. A significant debate took place on this aspect of the committee and came under criticism of the change, including the European Union, National Protection and the Environment Agency. These panels indicated that non-term leaves could be difficult to perform and referred to Swía's experience in these topics. On the other hand, it also came to the committee's viewpoint that the change is designed to create a better environment for eco-efficiency, which also reduces pressures on the administration. It was referred to as being in the current framework that many employment applications for new employment permits have been delayed beyond the duration of the old one. In such cases, special leaveovers performed after a period of untimely, but more regular reviews are needed for time and writing savings, as was said by the Committee. After this extensive discussion on the above points, the Commission has agreed to suggest a change in the bill in order to eliminate the plans to allow the law's license to be non-term rather than temporary. The committee considers the warnings of those responsible for the implementation of the law to be a cause for caution in these matters. There are, Madam President, two other things I'm going to come in on briefly. The first thing is about the registration rights. This suggests that the committee is suggesting the change in the bill that homemaking will be reserved in Annex V of the bill. This change is proposed in consultation with the Ministry and after a tip from the county in the capital area. The objective of the change is to make your homemaking, according to Article 3. law on restaurants, beds and entertainment, shall only be registered by a businessman, nor be subject to license or registration under the laws of loyalty and pollution as currently indicated. The primary purpose of this is to encourage legalization. At the same time, the Committee emphasizes the importance of effective monitoring of homemaking. However, in addition to this, it is important to keep in mind that surveillance providers are allowed to perform their roles, both with the necessary legal authority and financial resources. The other point I'd like to introduce on which the Committee suggests changes in the bill regarding the green accounting and the publication of the surveillance reports. A few discussions were made in the Committee on the demand to transfer a green account on the activities in the air on the Isthmus and on the official release of the surveillance reports. The Commission was informed that green accounting rules were considered in the Ministry, among other things, in order to reduce the requirements for non-employable activities, but only after the bill becomes legal. The committee agrees with this. In view of the public release of the surveillance report, the Commission submits to the view to consider that for various reasons, certain information may be reasonable and normal. Sets up the committee at 5 mg. a-arms 30. g. In addition to the priority of the work programme, it will be given to the operators the opportunity to comment before the public monitoring report is published. After the events, they will be published along with the report. This change is in accordance with administrative principles, especially the rules of protest. Madam President. Other changes proposed by the Committee are technical and aim at harmonizing specific bill articles with the changes proposed by the committee. In this way the Commission suggests several changes in the EEA's reviews, including the publication of ads and implementation of practices on the publisher's website as being official and that the Agency should submit basic situation reports to the local government. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. In addition to the reference work, Pawel Bartoszek, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birgir Ármannsson of Aarmann, Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Kolbeinn Francisn Óttarsson Proppé.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u99	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank a prominent authority in particular for his review of the case. It was a very clear and reasonable review of how the committee worked the case. Hv. Tox Björn Einarsson's executive made it into the views we had to take, and he considered how it ended in our group of committees. I just want to come up with this case because there are a few things I think it is right to mention in the pontata, especially since some of them are the declared will of the Ministry to adopt them at the return of council in the fall. I'm happy with the changes made by the Committee to deal with the situation, but this bill is largely EES-injury. In that process, other things were put in at the highest level. A minister wanted to see about the change in the group. In itself, there is no unusual treatment when at any other level there is to be some change to the case due to the introductions of the EEA directives, that there is a new opportunity to make other changes. Many of the changes suggested here, however, are to be taken to the top of the original bill. However, a minister needed much more than that. These changes were accompanied by differences in authority scores in terms of the local government and the government and called for far more overcrowded than had been left empty to go to work on this bill. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee cannot accept this cooperation or agreement, and we looked forward to the fact that it was intended by the Ministry to go to it. This will involve several aspects, mainly in moving a considerable amount of activities that today are authorized, in groups to the EEA so that it will only be registered by the EEA. This bill still suggests and after our committee opinion, yet it has greatly diminished the extent and nature of the activities involved. This may not sound like a huge matter to everyone as to whether a job is an employee or an employee of the EEA's union, but the basis for this suggests that the form we have on the surveillance and registration and license of work in the country. It has to do with the boundaries between power, near society, and the central government. The committee agreed that it was proper to take careful steps in this direction, and they would need to have a better view of it in the future. Finally, I'd like to mention what I may think is the biggest case in this matter, whether intermittent or temporary. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson did well to review the viewpoints presented there, and he tore well the conclusions the committee jointly reached. I just want to say as far as I'm concerned, it's a big deal in my mind. I'd like to say that in this chair because I know that these matters, as I came in earlier, have continued to be viewed, and we refer to them in our committee. All persons in charge of work in this country will resist this change, both the EEA and the European Union for health care. So this is not a small issue that is about the practicality of any period in which a company's employment permit is resolved and a new one has not been published. In such a situation, it may be wondered whether it would have been better for an enterprise to start earlier and consider earlier applying for a renewal, or whether it would simply have to promote those organisations responsible for the publishing of job vacancies and renewal so that such periods do not come and do not need to be given out. When every member of the organisation says that giving out an untimely work permit makes their surveillance difficult, we should listen, as we did at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. And we should remember that at work that lies ahead. We should not learn from the many issues that have developed over the past few years in the context of the interaction between the surveillance organisations and the individual enterprises that there should be some compromise in the requirements for monitoring, and to make it more difficult for those responsible for monitoring. So I take my whole mind to the following phrases in our committee list: ▪ Committees the warnings of the operators on the procedure of the law provide reasons for caution in these areas. So caution is needed, both now and today, when this issue is launched at the next assembly, it will come back to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A manager, Teitur Björn Einarsson, for his part and commission for her part in this, I want to say a lot of work to the bill. In many ways it is enjoyable and this collective committee opinion is presented, but I agree with the above words of a senator. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppé, that it was not well enough for the bill and its consultation too little. I'm going to nod up a few things because it's obvious that, outside of these EEA rules that are being taken into account, there are a number of things being done. They're maintaining the workforce between the EEA and the medical committees that have been present. The employment Marketing Authorisation is being relieved, and additional registration warrants are being improved, partially relieved of the writership. When it comes to uninterrupted activities, it is very important not to go through because a work permit is now granted to 12 or 16 years of age, and it shows itself to be important. I'd like to add to the reasons just ahead because it's that the employment programme as a whole in a particular company or an institution with a reasonable interval will improve security and professional practice, improves the quality of this particular phenomenon, whether it's the enterprise or the organisation itself, and even the health care providers themselves. This is in contrast to what happens on non-term leave since regular annual monitoring is not equal to the overall re-examination carried out in this routine. It is simply giving companies several years of opportunity for careful review, and there must be improvements. I guess everybody sees that. There is also a need to improve the quality of homemaking and make it easier for them to do so by reducing the process a little bit. It's important. At the same time, however, it is important to press on to any form of homemaking and to be registered, so that the knots have been returned to their taxes and fees. However, there are suspicions that there are certain things that are badly lacking in them. Green accounting, publication of surveillance reports, is also improving. In the end, this is a bill and the introduction of these rules to a fair roleum. It is a fine landing, though further inspection is needed, as was the preceding trace. In this way, I encourage like the rest of the bill to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u101	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a second round. to the Committee's list of committees with a modification proposal for a synonym on child protection implementation programme. The committee has discussed the matter and has moved some guests to discuss the matter and, though, to get some comments. The strategy is based on the primary objective of child protection laws on the responsibilities and responsibilities of the State in child protection. The Ministry of Education, Children's Health and Children's Health Committees for Community Services shall work on the four main objectives of the programme developing child protection in the country to promote child protection, improve ability, ability and knowledge of paediatric staff, ensuring the availability and access of resources based on cross-examination methods. I am delighted to say that the strategy will take into account the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which includes the Children's Convention, and the European Parliament's Convention on Protecting Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, as well as the other international human rights Convention of Iceland. It is rather obvious that human rights and social involvement of children are emphasised, and the plan also takes into account the development of children and treatment options for child protection. According to the Children's Protection Agency on Action Programme, the main points presented in the proposal are generally designed to promote protection in the country, which is positive, as the majority of the factors listed at the outset have come from the Children's Institute of Children's Health. I'm here saying that although most reviews have been very positive about the content of the strategy, it's a concern that this is a plan that will apply for only one year, which is not good enough. Children's Protection Agency considers that it is not possible to implement or complete all the tasks outlined in the implementation programme within one year. Children's Protection Agency is responsible for 11 of the 15 teams listed in the program and that it does not have money or staff to carry out such extensive tasks in such short time. Therefore, the Children's Health Organization suggests that the plan will be confined to some well-defined factors that can be completed in the duration of the programme, particularly focusing on the implementation of four aspects of the programme. They are mentioned in our committee party. The committee agrees with the Children's Institute of Health and considers it unlikely that all the objectives of the programme will be implemented in one year. Nevertheless, it is clear that some work has already been accomplished, and the committee rejoices in the work that has already begun. The committee also feels that it is important to continue that work and work on other projects as soon as possible. The Commission will give particular attention to the fact that the plan no longer applies to June 1, 2018, and it is therefore important that the Ministry initiates the implementation of the next strategy adopted after the 2018 district elections, as suggested in child protection law. Does the committee believe that it is important that the Ministry be called for a discussion with the committee in the fall to discuss the situation? In other words, we want to make sure that those taking care of children are working according to a legal program. This committee considers it very important to ensure that adequate treatment and/or saving measures will be readily available in the intermediate state lasting until a new treatment home is used. The committee suggests a change of 1st. the contents. Number two. magazines on PMTO services and welcomes the committee to the emphasis on the project. Nevertheless, the committee considers it important that other services not be limited. We know, those of us who have been working with children, that no resources and solutions for children in need should be excluded. There has been a lot of experience with ART, and this committee stresses the extension of the contracts for that service and continuing to work on developing it. Therefore, the committee suggests that new numbers are added to show that the ART services of child protection will be promoted. The committee agrees with Child Welfare's report on the fourth heading. adjustment is required. It is expected to refer to work loads rather than to work conditions that are more compatible with the content of the number. Gives the committee a change. Then the committee is concerned about the increased frequency of reports of child abuse. The reports of child abuse were 1,590 in 2007, while 10 years later 2,638 were reported. Most of the reports of violence were due to emotional/psychological violence, or 1,642 in 2016, and there have never been more. So the committee adds up a new figure that will deal with this important issue. It's on the 8th. it shall be proposed to provide proposals for changes in child protection laws to establish MST multisystem therapy and ensure access to national service. The committee stresses the need for permanent resources on a national scale and proposes a change in its content. Number 9. magazine on Children's House. The committee feels that it is important to set up procedures and services with disabled children and to propose addition to the figure. Finally, the committee considers it important to number 12. the results and results also apply to other child protection committees such as permanent, temporary, and supportive foetuses from relatives or relatives. The committee proposes a change that involves further resolution. According to all of this, the Commission suggests that the implementation program will be agreed with the following change - I will not go deeper into it. Before I finish this fine presentation, I'd like to thank the members of the Committee for a good job, even though we have been working in a way too narrow a time frame with so much importance. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, especially for her insurrections and persistences in the case. The members of the committee who have signed the case, I say gratefully, I am Sólveig Elínardóttir Mosty, chairman of Birgithon's Book of the Ármannsson, chairman Lára Lara Arnardóttir, Brjánsson, Birgir Mogensen, Sverrisdóttir Sverisdrisdótir Elinardótir Sigfússon Sigfufusson and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for bringing us this committee opinion. However, I would like to ask the senator a little more details about what was presented in her case. This is about a potential danger of treating children and adolescents while waiting for a new treatment center if I have understood the talk correctly and the opinion I had already considered. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How is the very thought behind this? What will happen until a new treatment - treatment home is established? Now, these individuals are being treated at the Highholt treatment center. What I'm trying to learn is whether to leave the senator's words in such a way that at least a plan will be implemented until a new treatment home is raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u103	I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for a good question. The senator was right, we were discussing Highholt. We realize that there is a hole in which we need to be very alert. We've received a request for information both to the Children's Institute and the Ministry. We will follow through. We understand the urgency and importance of taking this responsibility, since there is clearly some disagreement on what will be done. We do not want children or people in general shaking over what happens. It is our next assignment to pay attention as well as to follow up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The chairman of the Committee for this answer, which I believe, is quite clear, is the will of the Chairman and the majority of the committee's section that while a new treatment home is being built, however it may be, or that the management will continue with the work already being done at the Highholt in Skavegurd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u105	I am not going to go there to answer exactly what will be done until I receive clear answers and careful discussion from both the Ministry and the Children's Health Department, but children and young people there will be assured of righteous and legitimate treatments. I promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u106	V.E.G. President. We will discuss the Commission's opinion of a change in proposal for action in a child protection programme. In my speech, I'm going to mention some of the points of the proposal. This is a first step in a change, with a new sentence being added to 1 mg. 1st House to ensure that during the construction of a new treatment home, the situation meets the United Nations Convention on Child Rights so that adolescents will not be saved in adults or in isolation, whether in prison custody or in prison sentence. It's so hard. Councilmen on the World Health Committee have been informed that there are already great pressures in the treatment homes that are active today. Hv. Some members are concerned if they intend to close one treatment home before a new treatment center is opened. It is very important that the resources available now, including my own. at the high point in Skafurdur, become new until a new treatment center begins to operate. It's important to do what you want. As noted in the case of the partners, the welfare committee discuss this matter. An ancient man. The welfare committee. It has been requested that these issues will be conducted. The welfare committee will soon address this concern. Committee members declared to the relevant party. The committee even says so. that the committee considers it very important to ensure that adequate treatment and/or saving measures will be readily available in the intermediate state lasting until a new treatment home is used. It seems, then, in the synonym that there is some year in the introduction of a new treatment home. The evidence shows that there is a great deal of stress in today's operating places. It has also been observed that in some cases such as MST and PMTO, those who have to enter a treatment center already have treatment options and are not capable of doing so, so there is need for treatment homes and facilities until these individuals receive appropriate services. In the near future, meetings will be held at any moment. The welfare committee on the matter. We will discuss this. Second, there is a suggestion that after the 1st, the new number, called ART service, will arrive. It shows that the ART service should be promoted and contained in it, including to continue building ART services at national level, to increase the number of appropriately trained ART agents and to monitor the quality of the service on a regular basis. The goal of this is to provide resources for children's behavioral problems that are involved in strengthening their parents'role in raising children and helping to improve their relationship with their parents. The cost plan for this is about 30 million. K. every year. Child Services are responsible for this, and partners are going to be the Department of Health and Child Welfare Services all over the country. The scale is that the ART services are increasing and regular quality monitoring is performed during the same period. The ART is a well-defined and effective method based on social skills, self-control and morals and aims to reduce difficult behaviour in children and young people, e.g. who have been diagnosed with developmental disorders, hyperactivity or severe behavioural disturbances. Research shows that this approach has helped children and youths improve communication. Social skills are taught to communicate positively; self - control teaches students to deal with conflict in a positive way, and the moral element emphasizes that students reason under coaches'direction from trouble stories. According to a committee study, there was much and good experience with ART, and the committee emphasized that the contracts for that service will be extended and that it will continue to be done to develop it. Third, it is a suggestion that, after step 7, a new number will arrive, which is: Response to the increase in reports of child abuse. It states that children who have experienced domestic violence will be guaranteed needed support and service. This aim is to respond to the growing number of reports of violence against children. The cost plan is contained within the services of the Ministry of Health. This is a matter of well-being responsibility. Partners are Children's Institute of Child Welfare, Child Welfare Services, the Women's Refuge and the Police Department. The criteria are to provide suggestions on how to respond to high levels of growth, including necessary adjustment of the law. An article entitled Apostles reports that "whisper. " The committees are concerned with the increased frequency of reports of child abuse. The report of child abuse was 1,590 in 2007, but ten years later it was 2,638. Most of the reports of violence were due to emotional, psychological, or 1,642 during 2016 and have never been more. I'm also glad that the changes in the MST service suggest that it be national. In a committee party, everyone takes what they want. Committee members are subject to the importance of this. MST is a child - care center for the families of children aged 12◯18 who are suffering from serious behavioral problems. In addition, many positive points are presented in this suggestion, including the following: mention PMTO and other factors. Here's a plan, as mentioned in the debate. The Chairman and the pilot of the day. Health Committee, due to a year. Therefore, it is important to prepare another Parliamentary arrangement for this subject to be established as soon as possible. As mentioned in the case of what? This must be done for the purpose of the transfer. A welfare committee with the fall. Finally, in my talk, I will take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for your cooperation. The welfare committee on this matter. I am very happy that there were members of the Committee on a significant change proposal, and I look forward to continuing my cooperation with the Committee on this matter. Although we have supplied what is called a tripolitic agreement from the committee, we need to work with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u107	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here and discuss these matters. Less than originally accepted, the nature of the case is in progress, with a plan being extended to one year but not longer. If so, only certain parts can be overcome. But it was noted to the chairman of the Board of Health past discussions about Highholt - I was actually trying to search my data on what I had covered during the last term, since these issues are only happening, i.e. for use at the treatment center Highholm, how many would have been saved. I'd like to know what kind of discussion was held on a welfare committee by a child care center for the treatment center Highholt. In my own day, I experienced that it was not much interested in making use of it, and I was sorry. If I recall it now while I speak, the main evidence was that it was difficult to obtain professional service for the students there. At the same time, it was said that it would be better to have a nursing home closer to a family. Hv. A senator mentioned that it may also be thinking of members who have tried the ART treatment program and other options, and when all the acne, this would be one help in that regard. I ask: If Highholt is not to be used, are there other homes that have come to talk on a welfare committee that would be replaced?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good answer. It is true that she is opposed, has not given up, and does not have time to review all aspects of the proposal. That is why certain things are emphasized in the way of the case. For what? A welfare committee was just discussed in the case of Highholm. It stated that it was used little but that it cost a lot of money. But we also know that if we are to render acceptable service as individuals, it will cost money. It has also been observed that these attitudes have become somewhat evident in certain companies not to want to use this option. The argument, for example, has a bearing on the matter. they are saying that there is no professional service in the area. But it's wrong. It is a very powerful service there very close to, school, and clinic, and other necessary things to care for the services of individuals there. In addition, data that the Committee has received said that if Highholt closes, there is already a great strain on treatment homes that are present in the country today. In addition, it has been observed with the ART and PMTO and MST systems that there are generally individuals who are being treated in treatment homes who have experienced this service but are insufficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. That's exactly what I remembered, that it wasn't enough new and that it might be because it wasn't referred to. This remedy literally is not new. I agree with what. A senator about the service. I was only touched when the last assembly mentioned that there was a poor service of psychologists, social workers, and a lack of all kinds of teamwork in the area. At the same time, we move all kinds of health care through the scattered settlements in order to meet the needs of the civilian, which is not in the position of being in the home as these are. As the senator pointed out, the homes today are under great stress. I believe that after 16 to 18 years of legal age, the situation must have increased. The number of people in need of these provisions must have increased. That is why I was wondering, " Is there a better service for my children and if it is possible to place them in the homes operating in the big capital area? ' I suppose that's what becomes the dominant. There's a lot of mass and the mass here. At times, though, it may be helpful to get a little distance to build up. And even if we've been complaining about transportation here, people will be able to visit their children pretty easily. A certain service must be performed, but what about telecommunications, such as therapy? All of that could happen. I ask again about the growth and about the household: Is it ready, and is it possible for children to be placed in place if this home is closed? [[The president calls.]] Can the senator see whether the deal with Highholt is running out?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u110	V.E.G. President. So I start by answering the final question: Yes, it's true that a deal with the High Court is about to expire. I think it's about four weeks before The High Hole closes, but a new treatment center won't be ready for a few years. For the situation that will be brought up if Highright closes, this is one of the points that we are going to find in the near future. a welfare committee; what's the situation? Is it as mentioned in the report of the Committee, that there is already a great deal of stress in operating homes today? You may not fully understand the reasoning when you say that this treatment home is not really needed, but it is suggested at the same time to build a new home. You're right. One senator said that young men are not referred to this place, which explains why the use is so small and then becomes so expensive to each individual. I can agree with that. Says one senator: Some experts say that this service cannot be used because the expert and basic services and support systems are not there, which is just wrong, because, as mentioned earlier, the service is certainly there, while other experts say it's good to take the person out of bad situations. Sometimes it is just what is needed to help the person, which is the type of service that he and his family need. This helps to meet the needs of these individuals. That's what we're supposed to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u111	A respectable president. We'll discuss a child protection programme. Thank you. The head of the welfare committee for clarifying the proposal and for others. Councilmen who have spoken up. These issues have been discussed on a social committee recently and have been discussed in detail. There are some concerns that the committees have expressed, and the proposed proposal has made significant changes. The child protection programme should live between the terms of local government. It's about one year left in the country's election year, and we're pretty late now. This plan was agreed on on welfare committees to accept now, but we have received a word from a minister that in the fall and at the beginning of the new county term, there will be a new plan to work behind. This group of us, the future people, is concerned with the people who are walking the road. We always aim for security and success, but there is someone to help if they stumble. It has been mentioned in the past. If Highholt closes with his trained men, the Child Welfare Protection Agency will lose 4 of its 22 treatment spaces, according to me. We are concerned about whether the Internet is dense enough to bridge this gap as a new treatment center in the city of Reykjavík, but it will not be ready for two or four years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u112	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunsson for the discussion with me. It is true in his case that today only a year remains of the time of this program. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The welfare committee will discuss the matter, as it were, a new strategy and how it is going to work on its progress on autumn days when a meeting is being arranged or has been arranged. You're right. A senator says that we should always look at individuals and clients in our system of service, rendering them service in a safe and successful way. I'll let me say it like a dog. A senator, there is a trained man who has experience working with young men who are in this place and who are in need of such service. We'll lose treatment if High-Security closes. You're right. A senator has said that it takes about 2◯4 years, and I would even think that the time frame is longer, until a new treatment home can open. Of course, losing the knowledge and ability that these individuals have to serve this group is painful. People need expertise in caring for individuals in treatment homes like these.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u113	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. Senator. Children's Protection Agency operates primarily on professional grounds. Children's protection has changed their focus in many ways. Now, mainly, it is customary to give support to children in the family environment and to strengthen the family to cope with the problem, the whole family. However, circumstances vary, and there are times when families are not very strong and children should not be much different, unfortunately. Therefore, it is essential that children be able to get to the right place, in the appropriate environment, in order to get the right driver. It will be unchanged at the end of July 1. I can't take any conclusions as to whether this case has been referred to in small or limited amounts, but you have heard of it. These issues are discussed on a welfare committee, and I believe that the Committee will consider that this is the case and what the situation is like in this treatment environment, whether children will be assured of a good time at hand. But as soon as the Children's Health Organization makes these important decisions professionally, we need to focus on the financial issues. They're all part of it. But the welfare of your children should not be overshadowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The second and second man's answer. It is true that the welfare of young people should be guided by all decisions made. I agree that Child Welfare works on professional grounds. Today, it is very modern and is tried to make the best use of extracurricular resources to meet the needs of these individuals and their families. These include PM, ART, and I'm especially glad we got it, everyone. The members of a welfare committee, to install ART as a change in form. Then there's the MST service that's also out of medical care. It was very important to get it on a national level. I'm really celebrating it. I agree that it is very important to do so. A welfare committee meets and looks at them very carefully and provides us with answers as to whether this treatment center is being used as it should or not, that we do so thoroughly. The purpose of all of us in this work is to make sure that these individuals receive service in accordance with their needs and positions. In fact, it has been observed that although there is now an extraterrestrial service, such as PMTO, ART, and MST, it is in many cases that when individuals are in the treatment homes, they have gone through these measures, but they have not had enough, and other measures need to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u115	President. I'll be brief. This matter has been very well considered during the last few talks. I'm going to thank you. A chairman of her history in the matter, and he wholeheartedly agrees. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir in her speech, and worry too. I'll worry about them. We just work on making sure that no individuals, no children, fall between them. What I would like to stress might be that the plan we are discussing is only on June 1, 2018. It is unlikely that it will be successful to achieve all the projects proposed for this brief period of time. Therefore, I would like to emphasize the importance of the subsequent implementation programmes to the General Assembly in accordance with the Children's Protection Act, i.e. to four years at the end of the district election. In fact, I find it very strange to have to stand here and stress that a minister and a ministry do things by law. There seems to be some strange agreement in this room that there's only a normal thing, whether it's a child protection law or a government law, not to be followed. But I am happy that this view is presented in a committee study, and the committee is expected to call the Ministry for discussion in the fall to ensure that the Commission's orders to start work on the next strategy immediately in the fall and be returned in time to resist child protection. That's what I think is good landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u116	Madam President. I'm here to recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for a resolution of policy and a plan of action on the affairs of disabled persons for the year 2017-2021 of the overall welfare committee. However, we arrived at several guests from the Ministry of Health, the Union of Iceland, the National Institutes of Development and the welfare of Reykjavík City. News came from the Department of Health of Akureyri City, Blind House, Rehabilitation of the National Institute of Education, Deaf Society, River Valleys, Psychiatry, Analysis and Advisorship of the State, Hafnarfjörður Town, Association, National Institute of Education, National Rights, National Institute for rights, National Science Science, University of Iceland, Research Centre on Displacement, State District, National Socialist Association, National Association of Deaf and Hearing, Self - Control of Motion, Tabulism, Tabulism, New York, and U.S.A.A. The main priorities and objectives of the proposal are to ensure that people with disability, children and adults, can live their own lives with dignity. Human rights must be respected and forbidden on the basis of disability. The strategy is based on three key factors that are essential for services to disabled persons, funding, information collection and information sharing. The policy set in the introduction applies to all disabled persons, regardless of their age, years, impairment, etc., as the proposal is intended to introduce the UN Convention on Human Rights in All Laws and Action, i.e. The United Nations Convention, validated by the autumn Parliament last year. I'm going to go over a few points in the Committee opinion, not the whole Senate arrangement. For the Committee it was suggested that in a proposal to agree on this matter, a review of the welfare Department's web was proposed on November 28th. would have been an operation that would not be included in the proposal under consideration. It is a procedure to examine the effects of social, health, and educational funds on the lives of disabled persons so that financial contributions will always be considered how to deal with disabled persons, as is done in a sensory budget with equality in mind. We thought this was a very important part of it, especially with regard to e.g. A discussion that is going on about school without separating and how the education system is not funded enough to handle that subject. We believed that this was vital, as well as the basis for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. The client feels that this procedure is very important. The committee agrees with this comment and suggests a change in the shape of the material. The UN Convention on the Rights of Disappointment requires that there be an independent national rights institution, National Rights Insight. We thought this was very important. This was shown in a number of comments. A draft that the bill to legalize an independent human rights agency has been published on the Ministry of Justice. Such a human rights institution would meet requirements made up of such institutions in so - called Paris guidelines adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1993, so to speak. The Commission emphasizes the importance of establishing such an independent human rights agency that has the responsibility to promote and protect human rights in this country by constitution, by law, by international agreements, and by other international commitments. From a conversation I have had with the Minister of Justice, it may be in progress. The reviews given to the committee pointed out that the translation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people in the Icelandic language is extremely unsatisfactory. The translation contains serious errors that can even cause misunderstandings and confusion. The Committee urges the Ministry to carefully review the significance of the treaty in the light of the comments received by the committee and the application of appropriate adjustments. Then the commission also points out that while a bill for the treatment of disabled persons with a high need for support and concomitant bill for the adjustment of local social services, it needs to be implemented at the Fall Council of 2017, a review of the procedure with regard to the legal references and wording may be updated to bring it into full harmony between the programme and a new bill that would apply. Taking into account the above statements, the committee suggests that the council proposal will be accepted with the following adjustment, but I'm going to read it up. After Team F.5. if you have a new joint, as follows: F.6. Pay attention to the effects of social, health, and educational funds on the lives of disabled persons. Purpose: The overall picture of community support for disabled people is clear. Description: The way financing treats disabled persons will always be considered, as in a sensory budget with equal equality in mind. The impact of tax changes on well - being, health, and education on the status and life of disabled people will be examined. Special attention should be given to young people's situation when they have their own lives and plans carried out to exterminate rooms in phases. They'll appoint a member group with members of the partners. Responsible: Department of Department of Department of Education. Some examples of partners: the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Internal Affairs, Displacement of Displacement and Civil Society. Time: 2017-2021. Cost: Within the framework. Measuring goals: Change the structure. Hv. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir was away from the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature is considered in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The committees who write under committee opinion are I, chairman, Nichole Leigh Mosty, hm. Councilmen Birgir the Ármannsson of Aarman Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. Guvinger S. Brjánsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Elínardóttir Sólólnnardóttir J. Sigfússon, and Árnason Arnazon. I would like to thank the members of the committee for the support of this and that we once again handled a case that is part of our nation in a tripolitic agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. Director Nichole Leigh Mosty, for an introduction to the Commission's opinion on this matter. The goal of the Parliamentary arrangement is to ensure that people with disability, both children and adults, can live their own lives with dignity. How effective are the human rights of those who are disabled to be dealt with? It is important when discussing the causes of those who are disabled, the matter being guided by how the human rights of those who are disabled will be performed effectively. Last year a contract on the rights of disabled persons was validated by the United States of Iceland. In the reviews given to the Committee, there were some... to the extent that the translation of the Convention in Icelandic has been poor, but the members of the JESA Committee discuss the importance of the improvement of the Ministry, and I would like to agree with the comments made by the Committee. The change is presented in the panorama that the impact of funds for social, health, and education on the lives of disabled persons should be considered. Is this really important? You see, it is often so that despite the best intentions of the Lawgiver to improve the ideal perimeter groups, capitalization for the projects is guaranteed. So I would like to emphasize that the funds will follow that project so that we can actually achieve the improvement here. According to the government, we are living in a time where the prosperity of the nation is increasing, with an increase in public quality of life. How important it is that all members of society enjoy this economic growth! Work together to ensure the rights of disabled people and their possibilities for independent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u118	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty has done quite well over the committee's opinion, which all have. The welfare committee's signing. I wanted to come up here to agree that I think the adjustment proposal there is an enormously important one, and I want to state that I support her whole mind. I believe that to determine how this category of funds affects the lives of disabled people is always consulted by means of means of money and is extremely important and will be gained in the interests of disabled persons. And I just want to say again that I'm taking my heart into it. But I would also like to reiterate specifically and agree with what was presented at the same time. paritaprevir The Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir, here we are. That is why it is important to know how such a course is spoken. I would like to emphasize the importance of the translation and direct it to the highest level. The minister and the Ministry to make a subject for adapting and harmonizing the translations because wording is entirely immaterially important in this category, both materially and as the agreement on the rights of disabled persons is understood, but also because by word of it we are promoting change of viewpoint to the edge of a group. Hence, it is so inconceivable that the wording is above all doubt. I'm afraid it's not, as you can see, e.g. has comments on this matter. It is in effect that we are in a position that is now ten years after the contract was signed, we are not yet having a translation that is acceptable and that is actually four translations, with the translation number three in the order of the educational community being considered the best. It's an unsurpassed situation, naturally. I just want to agree with a welfare committee and to reiterate how important it is to correct this matter. Of course, there's a lot of responsibility for the Ministry. But I would also like to reiterate that because it is mentioned in the committee that at the same time basics in the matter of service to disabled people with a great need, as well as a bill to correct the law of rural social services that should be taken before the fall council, this plan of action needs to be carefully considered on the basis of law, references, and wording. I would like to emphasize the importance of working on the basics as well as the fact that if you are going to take up this matter, you will have a consultation with the disabled and/or their interest groups. Because it really matters, and it falls entirely under the motto of the Quantum: Nothing about us apart from us. It is so important in these matters as well as to have good consultation with the educational community. There I would like to give special attention to disability at the University of Iceland. In fact, it is so fun that in Iceland there is quite an overlap where disabled people are also found within the educational community. How important it is to activate the precious experiences of people who know how to be disabled from their own experience but who also have the theoretical background! To make it happen. That's what we're supposed to do at the Council. There were a number of indications in the reviews of this strategy, but there are no changes in all of them, but I think it's very important that we read them and examine them very carefully because it's beginning to make larger changes in other matters. I think these comments are relevant to that work, but repeat what I said in the beginning that I believe that the adjustment proposal presented here is a great improvement, and I really hope that the matter will be accepted with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u119	A respectable president. Hv. Senators have taken care of the situation. It has to be noted that this is a tremendously important group of subjects and the whole of the case's objective, and I take my mind to it. To make sure that those with disability, children as adults, can live their own lives with dignity. You don't have to look far. Here in the East this morning, a group of people were fighting for their better terms and rights, including their own. Part of the people discussed here. But I'm just going to draw attention to what is stated in the committee's opinion that this will be better examined in the autumn, reexamined by other laws and other external changes that could affect this. One of the main factors to be considered is the impact on financial relations between the state and the community, since rural society is, of course, much of it to the service employers. Inevitably, they will be examined to see how their financial situation will be affected. In that case, some of the strengths and weaknesses of rural society do not show anyone in service, they are not good at refusing service. They take jobs and take good care of them, but no new projects to cover their rural communities without any income being made. It's just the tip I wanted to say. The government must be careful not to bring responsibility or expenses to the local community without income support. But I take my heart to this positive matter and hope that it will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u120	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize a court-authorization law from a greater part of the General and Education Committee. The committee discussed the matter. The bill suggests small and technical changes to the current courts law for a number of judges in the Supreme Court. It is actually suggested that the office of the Supreme Court not be appointed by this year's high court, but it meets the Law's arrangement for a number of judges at the Supreme Court to be seven. The bill also suggests that there is a change in the law of civil law and criminal treatment laws in the treatment of criminal crimes appealed to the Supreme Court but remains to be completed on January 1, 2018. Suggested that the Court accepts them and finishs them. Thus, the Supreme Court is relieved of criminal treatment that is not finished when the National Court takes up the job and contributes to the equilibrium between a number of cases the Supreme Court will complete and a decrease in the number of judges in the Supreme Court. It also discussed the proposed changes to court order. The majority of the committee reviews that during preparation there is a need to make certain legal adjustments in order to ensure careful implementation of the new court order here, as well as the management of all court points. We propose two technical adjustments to the case and include correction of the criminal treatment laws due to a new court law and a change of the bill's headline to ensure the clarity of the bill. The change is so that rather than the word "U.S. Council of Justice, " at 3 mg. 123. g. The law comes: court office. At 59th. The law adds to a new feature, as follows: Instead of the word'stolen' at 3 mg. 202nd par. The law comes, the court of the land. Then the headline of the bill is suggested: Cells for the Change of Courts, No. 15/1998, and a law on changing civil treatments and criminal treatment laws, No. 49/2016. Signed by this signature, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótttir, and why. The senators Braunn Níelsson, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Pawel Bartoszek, and Iðunn Garðarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u121	A respectable president. A slight adjustment was made on the case in the treatment of the committee. The bill was given as a bill for a legal adjustment in the laws of foreigners, No. 80/2016, with subsequent changes (high school exchange students). According to the indication that a small number of exchange students may also be at a high school, the General and Education Committee proposed this adjustment proposal: ▪ The bill's headline goes on to say: Cells to legalize a change in the law of foreigners, No. 80/2016, with subsequent changes (changers). This is only to ensure their clarity of law so as not to compromise that exchange students at high school and high school, then university level is the exception, can get a permit here. I suggest that the case be agreed with this motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u122	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the members of the World Health Committee's Committee for a proposal for a decision on drug policy resolution to the year 2022. The committee has covered the matter at its meetings and has given a number of visitors, such as the committee may use. There were also reviews from a number of sources. An article will discuss that the main ingredient of the bill is going out to ensure the availability of the country's resources for needed medicinal products. Please refer to the need for medication at controlled prices and ensure that health insurance is actively involved in the cost of users in order to contribute to the most equality. The above article discusses comments that were received and responded, including comments from the local community on veterinary medicinal products. Second, information on access to products in the country was made that it is necessary to determine whether or not certain products should be sold in commercial stock markets and will be discussed in some material. The S-labelled medicinal product and authorised product and invitations were discussed to achieve the most economic value in these products. The Commission agrees with comments made from Iceland's Medical Insurance and makes certain changes in that subject. It is considered that the package leaflets are not electronically available. This is one of the reasons why the package leaflets are available in electronic formats can be met with the request for an Icelandic reference to the package leaflets, which is designed to increase the possibility of joint purchases and offers of medicines that can lead to more efficient purchases on these products. Other comments and adjustments are also attributed to the branch office. For example, a surgeon's office needs to monitor the quality and safety of medicines, such as the health care providers. According to a report on the Land Hospital, the aim should be for a centrally relevant reporting system, which is an important cornerstone of a national medical record. This is what the committee discuss and proposes a modification form of a central medication card. It also highlights human health and prevention. There was some discussion on whether the use of drugs was unusual here on the committee. It's a debate we believe important to take care of. When looking at preservation and public health, it is important to consider, as indicated in the opinion of the committee, that the health system should be concerned about these factors so that the system is not merely reactable, i.e. not all of our energy will go into the process of dealing with disease and health problems when it surfaces but will be more concerned with preventing health problems from occurring. Consideration is given to the opinions established by the surgeon on the Prescription Safety Information and the review of the European Medicines Agency following the addition of the Precaution Information on such products. Then, according to the surgeon general's opinion, it is related to what was mentioned above on the subject of high drug abuse that the average drug use in other countries would have to be targeted. The committee proposes a move to meet it. The review of measures to reduce the spread of bacterial resistant bacteria is carried out in a series of health care providers that will be progressively involved in reducing the use of antibacterial agents in this relationship. The final aspects of the study in the Committee conflict with the National Hospital's review of decision-making on the use of authorised medicinal products. The Commission agrees with national hospital comments in this regard that professional and financial responsibilities in these areas will be united as well as that the funding of a lawsuit will be ensured so that Iceland can be comparable to the principal reference countries in this regard. The committee's opinion contains some adjustments that can be read in the Senate document. However, the committee came to the common conclusion of suggesting that the bill is accepted. Under that opinion literature, as well as here, Nichole Leigh Mosty, president of the Committee, and driving. Arnardóttir Arnardóra, Guðjón S. Brján, Brjánsson Mogensen, Pawel Bartoszek, Stealgrim J. Sigfússon, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u123	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up here and say a few words. Hv. paritaprevir BirgirÁrmannsson farms have made good report on basic work. The welfare committee. I wanted to discuss two or three adjustments in very short terms and did not overexpose the discussion. First, a different proposal for the 1st argument: ▪ After the a- team, a new letter will appear, saying: The cost of user management is always balanced so that there will be a reduced risk that there may be some who need to say no for financial reasons. A significant discussion was made about this at the moment. the welfare committee, which was actually about a discussion on a related case, which is the payment system. The number of people who have landed in the roof of the pay system on drugs and at the same time in a health - cost system was considered. There was some discussion that certain individuals with low incomes live on the roof of both systems may face problems. We've heard reports of individuals who have difficulty solving their medication. A few of them. The committees spoke of the importance of looking to the future in ways to combine drug - based support systems and medical costs, since when people are up to the roof in both of these systems, they may be at considerable expense, e.g. for an individual on the minimum wage in the country. I'd also like to mention the C- team in the transition to the 1st Team, but that's a factor that's got the name Bilddal Show. That's what it says: ▪ Instead of the words'may be allowed to sell certain goods for goods' in commercial trades, it may be possible to permit sales of certain goods products in ways other than the usual products As I told you, this law has been given the vow of the city of Bilddal. This was only discussed during the last term, but it has been noted, among other things, that at Bilddal is not a pharmacy and that there is a difficult road to transport on either side of town. In such situations, it may be difficult to approach the necessary medicine, to lower fever, and to relieve pain. It was important for some members of the committee to consider this procedure slightly and to consider that it was possible to start a sale of a particular free drug in a way other than the usual one, i.e. looking for ways to meet people who live under such circumstances and need medication. Of course, we know that people get help and call friends or relatives and ask for it, but in some cases they can't, people don't have medicine. I'd like to mention another adjustment proposal that says: To ensure correct dosing and reduce the risk of inappropriate medication, the prior b-ions are added: and the central medication card. That was a lot of discussion. At the time of rest. The welfare committee was working this case just a substantial point in the news that the boring and serious mistakes had been made that the wrong doses had been supplied and the wrong medication or that drugs were being given to people who could not be taken together. It is important to look for ways to prevent this. I'd like to mention another in the Congress itself. The k-duty, number 1 says, by permission of the President: The provision of medicinal products will be strengthened and improved and will be sought together to share invitations with other northern countries. This has been mentioned in a discussion about a government budget, i.e. the importance of Iceland's looking for ways to cooperate with the national states in an effort to reduce the cost of the state of government from purchases and offer new competitive drugs and to offer similar drugs to the states of Northern countries, that we are not following what is known in our ideal neighboring countries. It is very important that we take the necessary steps so that we can share with those patients in common for the good of those who are struggling with difficult conditions and who need the best medicine. I agree with the importance of the drug conference. It is important that we have pharmaceutical policies in our country and that we contribute to the practical and practical use of medicines. I'd like to say something, too. A member of this committee's representative is about the importance of looking at prevention in an effort to prevent health problems from occurring; that we do not always respond afterward but look to how we can try to prevent things from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u124	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee's 1st chapter of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to provide support for the first apartment and public financial law. The bill suggests changes in the laws on the support of buying on the first apartment to support the work of the law and suggests that a date in provisional II of the law is changed. In discussions about the matter, the conference concluded that the laws on buying at the first apartment would be applied to buying out persons who had lost an estate because of the bank's failure to sell money on new property. The first minor items agree with these ideas so that financial and economic ministers will be directed to take them on a closer look and put the bill on the subject here at the Council before the end of this year. The first smaller item suggests that the bill will be accepted. Alfreðsdóttir Alffreddóttir was away from the hearing, one of the traders of the bill. Sigrún Igbjörg Gísladóttir was found for Jón Valdimarsson, who agrees with this view. Under countless publications, as well as those of Bristur Brynjar's Níelsson, Njáll the son of Friðbertsson, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u125	Madam President. I recommend here for Committee Control, Section 2 of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to provide support for the first apartment and public financial law. Our main concern is the change in the law on support to buy at the first apartment. A secondary objective was to facilitate the progress of the situation, in view of the fact that this includes corrections that tend to exploit the resources adopted in the last council for support to those who intend to invest in the first estate. I reviewed it here in a talk with a 1st. how the matter came about. I will not repeat it here, but I will say that the second smaller things do not support the case, which includes changes in the law given by members of the left movement, and Pirata's vote against the last council. It is a reason for this first estate support system is, in fact, a discriminatory tool used by joint taxpayers to distinguish different income groups so that they gain higher tax rates and thus higher percentages of public funds from common funds in housing. It's a complete change of direction from the long term housing support system, i.e. interest improvements taking into account income and property status. It has now been cut down by 70% in five years, but there are measures that directly increase discrimination and inequities. The fact is, based on the calculations made in the work of the Economic and Business Committee at the previous Parliament, it is highly unlikely that this resource will benefit a large proportion of young people if based on the development of real - estate prices that have gone up since the law was accepted at its time, and so on the median provision of the two youngest age groups (25 susceptib34 years of age, and 35 in 35 in 353/444 years of age). First of all, this will be a provision for greater income groups without realizing that the purpose of the law to support young people in buying out their first estate will be accomplished. That must seem like a very unsatisfactory provision of tax money. This attitude has not changed. The aims, as expressed in the current financial programme, are to reduce housing support for the next five years, despite the conditions of a housing market, suggest that the plans of the current government are that the government is restricted to the government's government's limited housing support in the form of a tax exchange while decreasing support for building a rented house that was more efficient and that it was the most important thing that the last government did in the area of housing, and we strongly supported it. Under the opinion of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u126	A respectable president. Indeed, when we worked on the bill of first estate, there were differences of viewpoints. However, we who worked on the bill, so we made it through here with a lot of hope that it would result in much. Now, in the winter news, we have seen that despite the yokes offered by the suppliers, and despite the fact that the invitation here in the capital area is certainly too small and could be much better, both on farms and also on grounds to build on it, the fact that the first buyers have never been more, suggesting that these measures are already being made use. You can see that there is a new way to pay off the head seat and/or payments in the first few years. So it's a real joy. When we were working on the bill, it was taken to counter the conclusion that it would not be wise to leave it at that time to reach so - called other real estates, i.e. Those who lost their home in the crash and who have had to go to a very expensive rented market, which even fails to cover their expenses, although surprisingly, would have to pay $200,000 a month in rent rent rents, but loans would be much lower. Therefore, it is a joy to present a bill to refer it to the minister of finance and economics to bring in such ideas. They're available in the administration. We were just looking at them. It was thought that it would be too large a economic operation to enter both at once, i.e. Support to the first estate and this, but logical continuation. At the same time last year, we made sure that everything else was done to the housing market. Of course, it is important to follow up on the rent. There are people there who both want rent and who need rent, and of course they need to be supportive of them. One way to do this is to examine further the ideas that we candidates presented in leading the last election, i.e. to undergo a radical review of the tax system where growth reform is introduced into the system. It's clear to be earnable, i.e. The average cartels and below, less income people, pay relatively higher taxes here in Iceland than to make up other parts of the North countries. Those experts who have come here from foreign institutions never understood how the growth reform system should have benefited this group. In fact, he has not done it well enough. Therefore, it would be wise to undergo a radical reassessment of the tax system with a view to improving the interest of this group, including the That he might take advantage of these ways as those who earn only a little more money, i.e. The first real-estate support. We, therefore, support these ideas and rejoice that they appeared here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u127	Madam President. Now, my attitude toward the matter was mostly traced to the committee's list of smaller sections, but I wanted to get involved only with the problem that we have in a housing market is a primary lack of support for young people. Some young people who intend to buy their first apartment have a very limited chance of supporting themselves. On top of the above, this law is showing discrimination against people by earnings, which is very bad. There is a difference between a person's having little or a lot of money when he is looking for his first apartment. The big problem seems to be that it is difficult to save for the first payment, and not all who have the potential for support from parents or other relatives. Today's housing facilities are low, perhaps especially in the capital area, but also in other parts of the country. High prices promote the problem because of buying their first apartments at 201⁄230 million. K. ... it'll call it a quarter and a half billion. K. The first payment or payment. There is a danger in offering a higher credit rate. It's certainly possible that some company has offered 2 million. K. Extra loans to those who are buying their first apartment, but no matter how they look, it's hard to get started. When we discuss the possible solutions to the problem, we need to point out that those who are trying to get into the real estate, those who are trying to buy property, they are often in rented houses, and rented rooms are expensive enough, so it's hard to lay down. I know people who have worked extra hours trying to collect money from an apartment. That is the problem that many young people face. In the spring, everyone warned about a campaign that minimized some of the problems young people have to deal with. But if we are to fix this problem, we need to view it as a whole, considering, for example. The growth reform system, by examining the interest levels in the country, which are far too high and have been reducing slightly, but may be reduced considerably faster, and by trying to reduce the prices in general by building. There is, in fact, very little that can be said about the housing problem, such as it is, that this problem would be easily solved if we were to build several hundred thousand square feet of apartment living, perhaps not as one house, but as many. We need an inexpensive place for young people and existing systems, and these laws will not fix them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u128	A respectable president. I recommend here to the committee's party that a projection of bill changes to legalize the covens of Icelandic fishing ships, guardships, cruise boats, and other ships. This bill from the Environment and Transport Committee is proposed to change the laws mentioned above. On the one hand, a change in requirements for designing land and tow ships and marine farms is proposed, and a change in provisional measures to provide hands of 30 doxorubicinators with the most necessary privileges to operate on ships of 12 meters and less on coastal cruises is proposed to provide them with licenses of 15 meters and less. The committee received a meeting between the 1st and 2nd. a representative of the Faratar and Fishing Union, of the Fax Forces, the Akureyri Harbor and the Western Islands, along with a representative of the research committee of transport accidents and of motorman and metal technology. There was then a review from the ship management partner. In short, these reviews showed that they found support for Article 2. The bill, which is changing preliminary rules of crew law in agreement, for those who had the rights of 30 dolls the best ships to change the law 2007. It has been found that various ships of the 30th head are over 40 feet [12 m] long, and this adjustment is proposed to the rights. Then it came to the Committee that there is not a basis for changing the law in terms of the design of heat boats and tugboats, as the bill assumes. However, there was reason to suggest that the change to sea farms would remain inside. It has to do with things that concern the role of the Committee on Releasure from the Code. It was discussed for quite a while. All views were torn to ensure that the main elements of the Marine and Marine Safety Act were secured, but it was found to be the view that while the law turns to a main policy to provide the rights of ship rulers from the length of ships and then rights to motor operators from the size of machinery, there are certain cases, such as in the law, of the barriers to the function of such ships and of the work performed in them. Then, for example. Refer to the rescue ships in that regard. According to this, the Commission feels that it is appropriate to respond to the viewpoints observed and suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in the accompanying modification document. Under the committee's opinion of publications, and with the individuals listed here, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Chairman Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bárísdóttir Haraldsdóttir, Ingiberg Guðmundsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Pawel Bartoszek.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u129	A respectable president. The situation is so fixed after the removal of tugboats and skiffs, I believe, which initially brought up this discussion, that changing the law on this ship might be abnormal. At present, the bill is only on the sunset rules about the 30 most dolls in command, and then the fishing farms. I count, based on the evidence presented by the Committee and by the visitors who came there surmounting to say that this will not lead to any risk of safety after the removal of land and tow boats and tow boats. So I can give my bill my whole life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u130	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. Special Agent Teitur Björn Einarsson for reporting on the bill. It was received from a minister and was presented on his part quite late, at the end of the period of time to propose a matter of Congress. It emphasized that the purpose of this project was to facilitate fish farming companies into human helpers, etc. but hardly mention of land and tow boats in this regard. During discussions and visits by visitors, differences between the seamen's trademates were so gradually revealed that, contrary to what had been presented in the case of a controversial presentation. Now this bill has changed, i.e. There are new proposals that make it possible that everything we've got to land and tow boats has been dropped. Since we have left greens like this, we feel it's right to make it easier for relief ships to feed fish, these are the changes that came along and our opinion of the committee, so it's an acceptable compromise. I urge this to be approved in that form.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u131	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee party with a new proposal for a whole-scale decision on the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure. It's all a whisk. a well - being committee to this committee meeting with a change in proposal found on deck. 825, 62th case. This is a matter of Congress from the beginning. Councilman of the United States, Brjánsson. The committee noted that the committee discussed the matter and came to meet some guests, and they also received reviews. The aim of the Parliamentary decree is to shape a broad range of policies on the affairs of people with dementia, individuals with alzheimer's disease, and other related degenerative diseases, while Iceland is now one of the few European countries that have not developed such policies and one North American State. The committee emphasizes that the example of our neighbors is being followed and especially wants to reiterate what is presented in the report with the proposal that the Norwegian experience will be considered in this regard. A general pleasure was established by the Parliament's resolution. However, at a meeting of guests, the panel found criticism of the wording on increased emphasis on central registration. It was stated that such a central registration requires adjustment and should be well planned. The Commission agrees that the wording of the proposal can be changed so that instead of staging a central registration, there will be an increased emphasis on the collection of relevant information. The committee then showed that this group of people is particularly sensitive when it comes to the care and quality of the people. It was noted that the better wording of the proposal itself, with a greater emphasis on the quality of care that can have a major impact on the course of the disease. The committee agrees with these indications and proposes an adjustment. Finally, the committee wants to give special attention to what was said by members of the Committee that it is important to consider younger ones with congestive heart failure. More and more young people are diagnosed with cerebral insufficiency, and they do not belong in nursing homes with much older ones. The committee agrees with these comments and directs the government to consider improvements in the system to meet young people with congestive heart failure. With the opinion very short, I'm going to go through the reviews, which were not very many, that were available on the subject. A review by the Alzheimer's organisations comes in. published by the Committee of the European Union, that most European countries have already developed such policies, and this has been greatly improved for people with congestive heart failure and for their citizens and that today there are ◯ diseases that lead to brain failure defined as aging diseases. This has made it possible for younger people who have such a condition to not receive appropriate medical care. All treatment and service management will become more specific and more clear and will at the same time facilitate all contact with proper system services. So it's the Alzheimer's organization that challenged the success of this controversies proposal and what we're discussing here. Then there is a review that says that it is a challenge to set a global health - care policy, especially a policy for older people and those who suffer from congestive heart failure. As long as possible, increased emphasis has been made on the fact that sick individuals are at home. The amount of pressure on the extended service may be high, and this can have a major impact on caregivers. It is imperative that this step be taken and developed global policies in the affairs of people with congestive heart failure, thus making it possible for us to render meaningful service. Then there is a review from the surgeon general's office, which says: "To provide services for these individuals to be the most progressive, it is good to have a complete legal policy, a field of service, registration of the disease, scientific work, education, support to those with congestive heart failure and their partners. There is also a review from the Hospital. It shows that few Western countries have not established a policy in the affairs of this patient group. In 2015 the number of dementias in Iceland was carefully assessed, and the result was about 3,500 people, much less than Alzheimer Europe estimated in 2012, but the difference is likely to be less than most European countries. - We all know the discussion about the nation's growing old. - More than half of these individuals enjoy a very expensive public service, such as day care in a nursing home... The cost of this patient group has not been evaluated in this country, but if it is based on foreign standards and costs of more expensive resources in this country, it is likely to be less than $10 billion a year, and is an indirect cost such as loss of employment. However, the health authorities have not established a policy on how these funds are spent. There is some evidence to highlight less expensive resources, such as daily training, for the lower demand for the most expensive resources, but there is also no question whether this is the case or the best option. In his review, the Landspians refer to the brain failure analysis and its implications. All instructors agree with the importance of this resolution proposal for a comprehensive course in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure, for good policies to be carried out improve patient quality of life and caregivers, and when applied systematically reduces expenses. I had yet to explain the changes in the committee opinion. To the proposal: a. In place of the words ▪ middle-tempered registration,Come to meet the details. b. Following these words, ◯ campaigns will arrive: to improve quality. This is done at the General Assembly on May 18, 2017. As mentioned earlier, all stand anyway. the welfare committee to the committee's opinion. Under it Sólveig Elínardóttir Ármannsson, president of what is known. Guðjón J. Steingrímur J. Elsa, Sigfússon Mogensen and Arnardóttir Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u132	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party with a change form from the General and Education Committee on proposals to conspire with regard to parental integration. The committee discussed the matter after reviewing reports received from the Children's Department, Peritoneal Protection, Children's Agent and National Book of Iceland. According to the Parliamentary Directive, the Council of Justice has suggested that it be entrusted to the Minister of Justice to set up a regulations on the implementation of national and public registration, No. 54/1962, where there will be a guarantee of equality with the parents of the children in terms of the registration of parental connections into a national record, and the consequences will be the discrimination that is going on with the mothers of intermarriage or living together. On April 7, 2017, No. 15/2017, the topic of Iceland's National Records and National Records and Public Records were moved from the Minister of the Interior to Transport and Regional Ministers. However, the Ministry of Justice presents cases involving incest, including the affairs of children and marriage. In harmony with this, the committee promotes a change in the proposal. The Committee concluded that it is urgent to change the practice in Iceland's National Registry that mothers in intergain or registered marriages are made to deliver the National Registry of Iceland a declaration that their child is conceived with the power of assisted reproductive technology, otherwise the one registered parent who bores the baby will be the one woman. The reviewers were generally positive to the point of the proposal, but to the Committee it came to the opinion that a change of law might be needed to change the current implementation of a parental record. At the same time, the need to consider parental records in general was discussed. The Commission believes that it is important to ensure that an equality of a state with the parents of children should be determined by the registration of parental connections in a national registry and to direct it to a minister to determine the best way to work on the goal of the proposal and therefore contribute to the change accordingly. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide transport and local Ministers in agreement with the Minister of Justice to ensure that an equality between the parents of children will be assured in view of the registration of parental ties into national records and that this will be the discrimination that is taking place at the mothers of marital relations or marriage. The committee agreed on these changes, that this was a matter of vital importance. However, every time these issues are discussed, as mentioned in the committee opinion, there is also a need for a complete review of the registry, there are many aspects of incest, registration, and other matters to be considered. But this is a positive step that all of us are on the committee, and we are ready to make further adjustments in this series of issues. Under the committee, this writes the chairman of a sledgehammer. General and Education Committee, huh? paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir, and why. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Eygló Harðardóttir, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Övars, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the daughter of Iðunn Garðarsdóttir, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Pawel Bartoszek.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u133	Madam President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalize a corporate law, No. 17/2003, with subsequent changes, about increasing access to an enterprise file. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Benedikt Jóhannesson, secretary of finance and economics, Jenný Stefanía Jensdóttir of Consti, Refecting Corruption, and Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, governor of State. Reports were also received from the National Association of Iceland, Peritoneal Protection, and the head of the state tax. An enterprise registry lists the names, landmarks, addresses, management or social shapes and institutions of the enterprise, names, legal homes and qualifications of guardians, employment numbers by Iceland's Office, information on broken organisations as appropriate and any other obligation to register according to law or necessary or practical requirements is required to register for the interests of public members or to the centre of public or public information. Part of this information is currently available to the public without charge on the Internet, but other information has been possible to buy from either the head of the state tax or companies that provide data from the government databases. The bill is about to open up access to that information, which contains the highest information about the guardians and the extra information. The governor expressed concern for the loss of special income. The Committee requested information from the head of state tax on the related costs and incomes due to corporate records. According to government taxpayer's response, the total income of the taxpayer due to corporate records in 2016 was 39.5 million. K. The speciality of your computer systems was only 340 you. K. of it. Main business files come from enterprises or institutions that paid $100,800 dollars. The annual budget for the use of an electronic copy of the company's files, but no total income was found for these purposes. It turned out that each new corporation paid 5,000 bucks. It's a social security bill. According to figures obtained from Iceland's Habitat on a number of newly registered enterprises, when this was multiplied, they obtained a total of 16.9 million dollars. K. in 2016. Based on the fact that the total revenue in 2016 was 39.5 billion. K. income was due to updating in computer systems, electronic transcripts, and other service files outside the new registration process of about 20.6 billion. K. every year. V.E.G. Economic and financial ministers said they were supporting the very good bill, but they'd like to go beyond this bill with the opening of the annual accounts and shareholder files in the coming years. On the other hand, he could see only the expense of the situation. The Society's Interactive Association gave rise to the importance of public interest, the academic analysis and the media to the fact that these data are available. The majority believe that it pays access to public, academic, media, and industry to make information in a business record important but also essential that a bed of beds be made to ensure that the head of the state of the taxpayer's income is in favor of those who are going to be lost. In view of this and in view of general support for the objective of the bill, a greater proportion will suggest that the matter be agreed with the following change: ▪2. par. put it this way: This law goes into effect on January 1, 2018. Lilja Alfreðsdóttir was away from the hearing. Sigrún Igbjörg Gísladóttir was found for Jón Valdimarsson, who agrees with this view. On May 26, 2017, it was decided at the General Assembly. Under the publications of Óli Björn Kárason, president of Smári Mccarthy, executive speaker, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson and Svandís Svavarsdóttir. To finish this discussion for my parts, I wanted to mention that this is the first step of three in this case, i.e. to open up the corporate file, which we may be able to complete now. But an annual bill has to be opened. I'm hoping that we can even do that in the fall by some way, perhaps by ensuring nearly 100 million. K. which are missing for the governor of the United States, on the other hand, for financial reasons. It is also the shareholder file that has also been maintained to some extent just between years, so it is only right once a year so that it is safe. All of these data can be of great benefit in increasing transparency and in ensuring the public a good perspective on where all things are going.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u134	A respectable president. This is certainly the first step out of a few such as a dog. A pilot mentioned. I agree with him and thank you for your support. Economic and financial Ministers who also want to go further with annual accounts and shareholder files. Part of taking one step at a time is about to start and see how it will be used. I believe there will be some gain from the opening of the previous device file. Although it may not be in direct pay for the governor, it will be some social gain. The media have noted that news did not come about just because it cost 50. K. looking up a business file, and society grew poorer because of it. So it will be fun to see the experience on this, and it will be fun to work at preparing and opening a annual bill and especially a shareholder list, since it can trace the real stake relationship. There's another thing I feel there is a need to sharpen in the law in general, that's about expansive excrement and, like, just how visible it is, so that you can't legally own or manage an enterprise with no public and accessible document; that you can't hide ownership in a legal way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u135	A respectable president. I recommend to the members of the committee a change from a greater part of the General and Education Committee for a proposal for the resolution of the Convention to the test in the Öxnadal. The committee discussed the matter and reviewed the comments that have been received. This case has been presented before they did not achieve any political treatment. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council deems to hide the minister of Education and Culture to contribute to the construction ofun in Oxnadal to honor the memory of the national poet Jónas the Hallgrímsson of Hallgímur. The Ministry seeks to cooperate with Earth's Owner in Axen Valley for funding and the implementation of the building project, as well as the future planning of operations in honor of Jónas. Further implementation will be carried out by a minister who presents this strategy to the General Assembly of 2017. The Committee concluded that despite the rich emphasis that has always been placed on literature in the nation and weighs heavily on its image as a collection of writers and poets in Iceland, they are few in comparison with other areas in the Northern and European countries. Reykjavík, a literary city of UNESCO, benefits. The majority agree that the development of a cultural level in the region is an important factor in building a historical and cultural tourism that contributes to the better distribution of tourists across the country and the exchange of cultural resources to foreign visitors. At meetings it was also discussed that the location of Jonah's home was not only in the most beautiful nature but also because of its presence in urban terms in order to maintain a living collection and educational work and to honor the memory of the national writer Jónas Hallgrímsson, one of the great poets of Icelandic literature, which was also a remarkable naturalist. It was noted to the Committee that the region, in addition to cultural and visual values, had a high national protection value, i.e. Educational and scientific values, but they were also suitable for curfews. A major factor is that the earth Braun in Oxnadal was declared peaceful as a public minister of the environment in 2007, which was involved in honoring Jónas's memory, while it is established that its access should be added to the public by means of subsections and educational signs. It was found that by continuing building on Humuna in Oxnadal as a cultural, educational, and research site, Jónas was shown to be a national figure like Snorri Sturluson, in Snorgratua, Gunnar the son of Gunnarsson, in Snúsnar, Halldór Laxness on Þórðarson, and Þórbergur of Thordarstir. It is evident that without the administration of the State and continued building, the cultural community Braun of Axendal does not depend on honoring the inheritance of Jónas, the Hallgrímsson of Hallg Monster, to whom it belongs. The greater part points out that this year, between the birth of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, 210 years ago, it is good to welcome his birthday and to honor his memory through the establishment of Jonah's mansion, which is thought to be the nation's figure as a global literature nation. A greater part of the matter is important in view of the fact that education and cultural and environmental and resource ministers will be together assigned to contribute to the construction of a prison in Axnadal to honor the memory of the national poet and naturalist Jónas the Hallgrímsson of Hallgim and to further the literary and natural protection work there. So the greater part suggests that the Council's Reunion proposal will be adopted by the change that, after the word, the Minister of Education and Culture, at the 1st Amendment of the proposal, comes: and environmental and resource minister. Instead of the word "Counsel " of the 2nd Amendment, come the Council. In this opinion, the head of the committee is writing, what. paritaprevir The Valgerður daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, who stands here, Árnason Arnam, and why. Councilmen Nichole Leigh Mosty, Eygló Harðardóttir, Iðunn Garðarsdóttir and Pawel Bartoszek, in advance. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. Brjánsson hearing officer on the committee agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u136	A respectable president. Piratar and I were not part of the majority opinion, but we would like to express our general satisfaction in carrying out the work as such. The reason we didn't date is because we thought it would have been ideal for us to have this in a broader structure of memory and culture. Here and there, the memory stems see building monuments and so on around them. While it's good to suggest at the General Assembly and get on with such an excellent project, it would be better to work through larger policy plans. But we may just have a little self - worth. But then again, good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u137	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill on bill to correct a change to the U.S. government election law, No. 5/1998, with subsequent changes. This is about foreign citizens' election rights. This case was discussed a great deal in the Committee, and members in general agree that the election is a key factor in the involvement of people in democratic society. This has become a bit urgent, since there will be about 8% of the voters here to be foreigners. A significant agreement was made on the committee to clear this right. Today, there are many ways in neighboring lands. Maybe you could say you need to go over this better. So the decision in the Committee was to refer this to the Ministry of Justice, bearing in mind changing the terms of the election and evaluating which way might be most favorable in this regard. A meeting was made on the Committee to direct the bill to the government. Under the committee, Brubbur Brynjar's Níelsson, Njálri Friðbertsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter, Sigrún Ingibjörg Gísladóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Benediktsson Beneaktsson, Sakgisdótir Svavarsdóttir, and Sverrisdóttir Sverigris's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u138	Madam President. Now I love it, because I am its 1st transporter. I know that the Committee discussed this and some possible implementations. For example, there are ways to take along in the bill, which you can take a shorter step and look to the way that has gone in Norway. There, the northerns get a vote at the same time, while others after three years. There were viewpoints in the comments on the subject. Here's a suggestion that the bill be referred to the government and that they intend to review the election rights. That's my conclusion. I hope that this will be checked in the Ministry, which will soon end with a bill. The Ministry of Justice will then find my warm breath on the back of his head to make sure it does. Other than that, I support this conclusion and have concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u139	Madam President. I recommend here for the Committee to conduct a bill to legalize various tax, tax, customs and fees for the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The committee received a considerable number of people, as indicated in the committee opinion, and I will not extend the discussion by listing it. At the request of the Department of Economics and Economics, the majority contributes to Article 3. The bill, relating to the partner's social status, falls down. The Ministry considered reasons to revise the law and intend to propose a new proposal for the Council in the fall. It should not be accepted until January 1 next to them, so it should not be the cause of a delay in legalization until the fall. In Comb 4. The bill is suggested to remove from restricted area 1st. 57st. legal on income taxes on interest fees if the borrower has unlimited tax laws in the province. An article with the bill says it's likely to go against EEA rights. The employment community, however, felt that desertion of the exception could prevent SMEs from a joint loan that could raise funding costs. The majority suggest that the proposal be agreed, but also directed to the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs on the basis of review of Article 3. The bill will be considered to see how to ensure that the mobilization of this issue does not affect normal funding within a corporation that is not aimed at limiting taxes. Code four. The bill should not be valid until January 1 of the next issue, so that no legal arrangements for this material should be laid in the fall. Based on the indication, the review of KPMG ehf. contributes more of the item to a-completion 5. and 7th pars. The bill will be referred to an rented apartment house that falls under rent laws rather than to rent a permanent tenant in an apartment building. The majority of the shares count it a much clearer delimiting process. The proposals for several changes in wording are then made, but all changes made by the Committee are presented in Article 859. So much of the part suggests that the bill will be accepted by means of change proposals. Under this view literature, as well as the following: Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn's daughter, Brabbur Níelsson, Jón Valdimarsson, and Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u140	Madam President. I hereby recommend a committee program with a change in bill proposal to correct a variety of tax, customs, and fees. By law on changing law No. 50/1988, no. 69/2012, with subsequent changes, regulations were suspended in 48 st. a law on the value of extra taxes is accompanied by sale of taxable products and services to the defense force at the Cheflavour Airport, according to the legislation on the protection between Iceland and the United States and the United States as well as the legal rights of the United States Army and its property, No. In 2006 this portion of the law would have lost its mark by the removal of the defense force from the country. On the other hand, the bill is suggested that there be again no sound argument, of various tax accesses for the support of foreign forces and of its civil divisions, including the Atlantic alliance, the cooperation for the peace and the United States of America. The minority believes that while no basic changes or core policy changes have been made in the return of the defense to the country or more, there is no basis for a change in the procedure in this subject. The minority does not consider it a reason to pay for the exercise or other military activities of the region, and it violates the fact that certain tax barriers are given for this purpose, as stated in the bill on this topic. So the smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes the most part suggests, but the smaller part also suggests the following change in the bill for removal of 10,◯12. ... adrift,discreet 16th paragraph. ... andextremence18,425. par. Under the committee's view, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir and Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, write.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u141	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in the Council of Mentions, No. 130/2016, continuation of the legal procedure. It's a bill that the Economic and Business Committee is behind. As reported in this report, since the past few years, the implementation of the changes to the work-relevant management programme has been carried out with subsequent approval of new legislation on the Council of Elders by the end of 2016. However, this work has produced opinions that are desirable to make changes in the new law. The most important issue to be considered is the interaction of the pay scale and the decision of pension to those who use the so-called postal principle in the B-section of the Pension Fund of Government Services. It is found in 1st. Thirty-five. law, on the government's Pension Fund, No. In fact, by permission of the president, 1/1997: Despite the regulations of 3 mg, those who start a pension from a job, and those who receive pensions from the fund at the level of these laws can still do so. 24th par. The law and the 1st. Thirty-four. track No. 141/1996, choose whether the pension pay will change in accordance with the changes that will be made at any given time for the last job they were doing, or after experiences with the change in pay for a higher paying job according to Article 6. 24th par. 2 mg. Twenty-eight. The law, or if they should change according to Article 3. 24th par. That's the law. This report also shows that 2 mg. 24th par. track No. In fact, according to 1/1997, the amount of old age is a percentage of the fixed pay for day work, personality replacements, and holiday replacements at the end of the working contracts, as shown by 6 mg. 23rd par. As this law states, pension is determined by the fixed pay for a day's work paid for the job. In the features of the new dress code that deal with the decision of pay, whether under the premise of a dresser or the specific unit, there is no distinction between pay per day and other pay, and it would be unchanged that the retirement of many led to a significant increase in their pension and thus the expenditure of B-in ER, but it was not intended that the change in the pay decision would lead to such an increase in expenses. To cope with this and prevent such growth, two changes are needed. On the one hand, the 1st matter must be changed 2 mg. Section 4. track No. 130/2016 means that it will be the same as before, that the advice on the matter of day - to - day work and pay may be made on the basis of a decision. However, the implementation must be postponed on the date of the decision on the salary of the directors to the members specified in the specific parties, as shown in the report. Two. is suggested to delay the implementation of the decision-making authority of the Directorates from the Council to separate special units within the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and for recruitment or management and for the presiding committee of the General Assembly and the administration of the Court of Justice. The Council of the Perceptive Council has value on July 1, 2017, and 5th. provisional measures in this law were stipulated that cases which had been taken to treat might be concluded prior to that period under older law, i.e. Code No. 47/2006. It is proper to make a decision that the Council shall be held in the period between July 1 and December 31 of the second, according to the law of No. 47/2006 and thus the same rule of decision-making whether of the case or of July 1st, 2017. The bill will have no additional costs beyond what was expected by the bill that became the law of 130/2016 where this is the main policy of conversion to validation. Madam President. After 1st. I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u142	A respectable president. We're in the smaller part, huh? Councilmen of the Economic and Business Committee, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurfjörðurtsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy, provide a change in the bill for the change in terms of growth and insurance, U.S.S. Serencies Act, and a law on property loans to consumers, (a loan linked to foreign currency), which reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Following the word "January 8. " published by Jehovah's Witnesses. Along with that, we make a 17th floor. Information about real estate loans, that the a- force stays, i.e. It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The phrases, and puts forth foreign assets in the currency that the loan has to do with the insurance loan of the 2nd over... --to a-a team standing. Thus, in the memory of the section, we want to reduce the risks of these walking loans, i.e. that they are given to individuals who are vulnerable to foreign currency. As the bill is today, it says, by permission of the President: The borrower shall only lend loans related to foreign currency to consumers as: a. has enough money in the currency related to the loan in order to meet payment, or b. has passed the pay assessment where significant changes and significant increases in interest of growth are expected; There we would like to add, as I said earlier, that we will contribute foreign assets to the currency associated with the loan insurance loan. The Agency's team believes that the whole bill is a failure, and the management groups have not learned much from the financial collapse, and even in the bill itself, they are very well aware of the failure of the successful loans in their time. By permission of the President, I'm going to quote the bill. It says: ▪ At the end of September 2008, loans to individuals associated with foreign currency were received by some 320 billion dollars. or about 17% of the total individual debt. Then, in increasing numbers, rural societies borrowed loans linked to foreign currency during the years before collapse, as well as nonprofit companies, who had no income or owned valuables in foreign currency. During 2008, a sudden drop in the Icelandic crown took a severe blow on the economy of non-arrayed loans. By the end of 2008, there were almost 50% of homes with loans linked to foreign currency with negative personal housing, but the ratio of over 20% of homes with only loans in Icelandic dollars that did not work in safety, to which I called attention to the fact that this is all in the human bill running through -- ◯ Despite the fact that the banks usually had a lower bail share of foreign loans. As a result, the risk of gang-changes borrowing foreign currency is considerable.• A respectable president. It is as if we have learned nothing from experience. When the loans were sentenced illegally at the time, the bank system was canceled by some 150 billion people. It's been very short since we had a complete system collapse in our financial system, including the rest of the world. Drive on from cheap foreign loans that were available to the Icelandic loans. But the Minister has returned with a bill. We should not forget, too, that there is a great deal of progress in the economy these days. Then, for example, there is. the share of foreign loans from new loans of the banking system increases from 5.6% in 2013 to 21.7% in 2016. This is an enormous increase. Is this totally missing the board? That's why we're recommending this adjustment proposal to protect the homes of the country. Then I ask myself, " Is Iceland on a boat? Is Iceland on a boat about success insurance loans being a problem? No. Thus, at the time, many Austrians, who have been using proben, decided that it was very reasonable to borrow from Swiss francs because there was a very tempting interest there. In January 2015, the Swiss franc suddenly rose by 20%, and a very large group of borrowers had a serious problem. The problem also concerned that this group was severely misunderstood. The same is true of some hundreds of thousands of Polish people, who also experienced problems for the same reason. That was 2015. In these and other countries, efforts have been made to support the welfare of the safety of the undefeated loans, e.g. Add a stiff cut to the weight of paired insurance loans, and stiffer rates for auto-finance loans that provide them. The Team's Congress is totally against this bill. I'd like to mention five factors to support my case further. First, it's about financial stability, i.e. The borrowing of foreign coins, which are not successes, contributes to financial instability. So the situation must be protected as we are suggesting. In fact, we also recommend foreign property to the individual. Why do we do that? Because it can be taken care of if the people get into trouble. That's why they call it a defence. This is to protect financial status in Iceland. Second, it is an equal claim, for it is apparent, as the bill is written, that there are only homes that are financial enough to borrow foreign coins. Therefore, there are very significant differences in households. Many in this room will ask: Then why is this adjustment suggested? Is it not even more lenient to those who own foreign possessions? But we do it for that purpose first and last to make sure that these are not loans to vulnerable individuals, for they have nothing more to offer than their property if things go wrong. Then we come to the third argument, they're moving toward a money policy. It is clear that the country's wealthier home will live in an entirely different growth industry, and the Grand Banks of Iceland, where there are considerably higher direction growths, which have not been overlooked by anyone, will only reach these homes. It is not likely that this procedure will be loaded. That's not at all what the Icelandic economy needs at this point. The amount of money in traffic could increase, and that's not what we want. Some might say that this may even require further growth. How amazing it would be if Iceland's queen's capital had to grow because he was paying interest loans in low - interest areas! This may not be what governments in this situation have planned. Fourth, because experience is simply not good, other countries are crowding on such loans. That's why I think we could do more work before we accept this bill to look at further ways to counter this problem. Fifth, there is simply a great uncertainty about the money policy and the development of the policy. There are very different messages from the national rulers. The prime minister speaks for the future currency of Iceland, while financial and economic ministers simply say that it is undefeated to continue with the crown. So there is a measure of uncertainty and a certain disturbance in the financial policies of the country. Besides, I'd like to mention only the analysis of Arion's bank from this morning discussing the buck's position. With the permission of a president, I would like to review only the five arguments in which they say that the dollar is probably all too strong at the moment. First of all, Iceland is probably the most expensive country in the world. Second, there is an increase in pay in Iceland with the highest, and third, the rate in exports is rapid and fourth is considerable short - term content with the crown. More important, they point out that the cost is likely to be over the balance trial. The diagnostics are asking if the dollar isn't starting to get sick. They think it's probably not this way in the near future. On the contrary, the analysis department believes that over a short period of time, a gradual growth is more likely. However, it is clear that after five years, they feel that the chances of a dollar getting weaker are greater than that of getting stronger. A respectable president. This, of course, is a economic analysis that determines the prognostic factors. But here we have some convincing reasons why the situation is very sensitive because of the social expansion and also because of the high influx we've just received from foreign currency through the equal service. It must be said, most dignified president, that the crown's funding is first and last driven by the national services of the population, and that is where travel is carried out. If tourism is experiencing external trauma, the prospects for the development of the crown may get very sudden and very rapid. If we look at the product exchange equations, then there is a great tail and likely a record level this year. If we didn't have our service level, the price would be far weaker and much worse. That is why I am very surprised that the government groups are ready to conduct this bill under the present circumstances, seeing from it and the profound instability that we have received in connection with such loans. This bill will increase national instability and governments should look for other ways to meet commitments in our contribution to the European Economic Areas. The interests of the households in this regard must be considered more carefully. I don't feel so good about the bill. The adjustment proposal for the memory of the part is designed to increase the protection and increase the number of national eco-efficiency instruments to support the money policy. Finally, I encourage members of the Parliament to think deeply about before this law is approved and taken into consideration the responsibilities they bear. During our last term, we made advance agents stop the bill for several times. I simply find it very difficult to believe that members of a member of the board, within the bright future, are willing to support a bill that this is the way to the interests of the households.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u143	Madam President. I want a trial in my speech, and I want to provide the viewpoints that were presented in a discussion on the 2nd bill. and the views reflected in the committee's section on the subject, mainly from the consumer organizations. Then I'd like to review a few things that are important about the matter here in the conference hall. With the bill we're discussing here, the bill to correct the change in interest of interest laws on growth and insurance and the laws on consumer loans and mortgages to consumers, loans related to foreign currency, it is suggested that success be lent to undefeated consumers if they have enough income to live up to a significant fluctuations in the financial debt like that. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Dögg Alfredd's daughter made her speech very clear. In other words, in this bill, it is available to pay for the access of wealthy people to loans that are not available to others. Is it true that if this bill becomes that law will become just the rich and have the opportunity to obtain money in a way that differs from those less involved? Because the loans discussed will only be available to wealthy people. Then they will have an effect. The strong incentive to take such loans is that interest in abroad is much lower than in this country. By taking on money in this country, borrowers can take in considerable interest. That benefit, however, is not without cost. The Seam Bank's fruit is less effective if a chemical person is able to borrow gangstas on interest that does not have anything to do with control growth. So I ask: Is it true that if the bill is the law, they will earn a fortune, and those who earn money in foreign coins can scurry away from the directional growth device by taking loans of success on lower interest rates that have nothing to do with the Belour Bank's steering growth? In this way, they are in a situation far different from those of others, and thus they can maintain their growth unchanged and, if any, pass on. A large number of foreign loans, a poor loan, can also enhance gang swings and increase financial instability. It is likely that many of them are at the same time seeking to buy a currency in order to minimize money if a dollar starts to fall. This increases the decrease in the value of imported goods and thus increases in inflation. Today, however, people's financial debt is increasing. In a similar vein, the Neythal Society in their review accepts this bill as they say, with the permission of a president: Since consumers enjoy the doubt, consumers are the most important interest group under which the bill is legally the law. In view of this, the organization agrees that loans related to a foreign currency are not insured, as there are other and external events that can affect the loan's head to increase but the possibility of inflation. It is stated that Iceland's Federal Bank has the authority to establish loan policies on loans associated with foreign currency to non-Galblage - risk users, especially if there is evidence that the loans can affect financial status. Appropriate financial precautions must be readily available for appropriate action to be taken in time. A smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee highlights Iceland's Secret Bank that he is granted a clear commission to use the national economistance device used by the Order of the Order. Under it, the Neythal Society takes it back to me in their review. They also consider it important that these Iceland's National Bank on foreign loans to limit such loans to become clearer and more explicit so that this will not be the case unless it is severely limited. I'd also like to mention that in the bill report it is referred to that the EFTA monitoring agency considers the U.S. law to be a policy of privatary insurance is not consistent with the EU Convention's free accession principle. However, the Agency has not required to open the cost of a failed loan, as the bill says. In short, then, in the bill it is a political decision to pay for the access of wealthy people to the inexpensive foreign funding that is not available to others and at the expense of others in the community. Therefore, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee cannot support this situation. A review is in the memory of the section. Senator Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, Hrund Jónsdóttir, representing Pirata in the preparation of the committee's opinion of the smaller section, and then signed as follows.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u144	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, loans related to foreign currency, and the change in the smaller parts of the year. The Economic and Business Committee. The bill of this material was discussed in the 144s and 145s of the legislature Council. In view of its seriousness, I would like to review the story of this matter, as was very good in the case of the moment. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, and really not much to add. Then came a whisk. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir. Of course, these are not indistinguishable issues and then president of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, was on this case all along. It is very important to review repeatedly the comments of the Federal Bank. The logic of the matter. The preceding members are very successful, but I have one of the many comments of Iceland's Federal Bank, dated 25 May 2015, a memo entitled Anarchy, on a panel. 975. It says, by permission of the president: It was made clear that the bank considered it inconceivable to open credit to consumers who were born at the risk of currency, and therefore stressed that the conduct of payment on loans associated with foreign currency would be required to borrow money from the creditors. Changes made in Article 5. The bill is in charge of this and will only be allowed to lend loans to foreign currency if the borrower survives the payment of the relevant currency, or borrowers survive the payment rate based on substantial changes and/or significant growth increases in interest of foreign assets... This is the point of the text I wanted to come to. In this review, the pager follows that it is a significant change in the bill text that agrees with the Sensitian views and that it is important that it succeeds. Today the scene has not changed, rather, that there are economic conditions where the danger is greater. That's why it's very important that we take this seriously. So I can't help but support my opinion of things and the adjustment of the memory of the section to Section 8. The bill, as it happens after 2nd. O.r., to supply foreign assets in the currency associated with that loan as a guarantee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u145	Madam President. The financial secretary's bill is responding to EFTA's comments that Iceland is not on the EEA contract because people who are protected against the benefit-risk risk are forbidden to take success loans; they need to be consulted. Right? Still, the bill goes a little beyond that. This allows the richest people in the country to borrow foreign loans, although the same people are not specifically protected from harm. Today, it is not my personal ambition or the United States to oppose people who enjoy foreign interest that is, of course, much lower than Icelandic interest, but it must not be at the expense of those who are lazy, the majority of the population, who live under the yoke of the New World Translation. A question is, Can this simply cause people with wealth to get richer and this government to add another piece of weight to the question of increasing the numbers of people in this country? It has been said that if one group like this gets an exception to a foreign loan, it will reduce the effectiveness of the high Icelandic growth, which will lead to an even greater and high enough growth, they are now. That's why we're in the United States against the bill. This includes giving individual groups opportunities that are not readily available to the common people, and it is rather a repugnant approach in all politics. The discussion that has taken place will no doubt help us to see how damaging and potentially destructive the amount of dollars may be. The high interest rates are a burden on households, and businesses and dollars are increasingly calling for greater national eco-weapon devices and confusing the economy, as we can see. We're not looking ahead. We're not making plans long into the future. Rather, we are always making some setting that enables us to deal with the things that happen to us. It is simply swinging by these blessed coins, so the whole discussion is about whether we should push it down or lift it up. Hv. paritaprevir When Lilja Alfreðsdóttir quotes the branch of Arion, which says that the sum of dollars is becoming full, that pay is historicly high in international relations, and we are becoming the most expensive country in the world, but it can get weaker after five years. If there is an external situation, perhaps one of the major factors in the growth of the dollar, the amount of money may fall dramaticly. What kind of situation do we have, Madam President? It's the highest. The secretary of finance doesn't agree with me that this is not desirable? Now it's got the highest. The secretary of finance has an idea that is going to cancel the travel service from an increase just as a team trying to stop a rising success, but it can't be done. To prevent this, directors have sided with the government. This may be an unfortunate time for that operation. It may have been possible that we should have had that increase four or six years ago when the dollar wasn't that high. But something has to be done. I'm afraid this must take place a discussion about it, completely without prejudice, whether it's all about defence. This is where it sits. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who has a better sense of soccer response than at least Everyone in here, and probably most of the country coaches. He also knows that it may be wise to defend yourself if you have one quick approach, but never being in a situation other than responding does not work out. I recommend to the highest. Secretary of finance will come up here and tell me about his plans for the future in the national financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u146	A respectable president. It was challenged to me, and it declared that a senator in the Big Future - and I don't fully understand that comment, but if I try to discern the answers, possibly there will be trouble. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir explains it in reply, it's probably because of my personal affairs and the personal issues I've been through and were published in a documentary on the hedge fund. So I'd like to be very brief about the success of gang insurance loans at the time that former governments allowed to lend individuals from 2002 knowing that success insurance was not legal, that the terms of the loans made with businesses and with people were illegal. It is fundamental if borrowers borrow banks or financial institutions that terms are legal. They're doing it now. It wasn't at the time. It wasn't all those years. Besides, my fighting for courts to show that this was really not a foreign loan, because there was never any money between countries when it was being lent to foreign borrowers. It was a betrayal. It was bad work. These four groups, who have been in power over the past few years, allowed this, slept on their guard in this regard. I think it's important to come out. There never came any foreign money into such trades with company and with individuals, at least Not in the matters which I have fought in the courts and yet am I. Besides that, it was about financing contracts, whether they were loans or rented. I don't object to the fact that the people and people in general in the country and businesses receive good contracts, receive success loans. I don't know if the Icelanders are more protected from high-cost loans. I'm not sure. Iceland is at least he is on a boat in terms of securities loans. I also want to emphasize that I trust people to decide for myself today in an informed way what kind of risk they will take with their contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir for an interesting introductory device. I'd like to ask her the following question: One of the main causes of such a disaster was the fact that the parties, individuals, and businesses were not protected from harm. What happens is that in a very short time, the amount of dollars dropped by almost 50%, and the people did not have foreign currency to deal with it, so they were entirely vulnerable. The procedure, not all the agreements, was not sufficient, but the real threat was that of unscrupulous individuals. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she agrees with this and how she feels that this bill can match these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u148	A respectable president. Stability is the foundation; it is a risk factor number one, two and three. The discussion is much bigger and broader than what we're discussing here, some consequences. As a result, there was a collapse, a hedge fund that took place against the Icelandic crown. This happened on the watch of the governments that have been here for the last term. I put my hopes in terms of the resources and the changes in the laws and rules we have made after a crash, to the extent that the situation was right here. I hope there's no other crash. At least, though, the risks depend on stability here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u149	A respectable president. It is urgent to look to the future and consider where the risks are. Of course, we need to learn from the past. What we have learned from the past is that there are great mood swings here, and that is why these loans are highly risky. Hv. A senator answered nothing when I asked her if there was anything going on with those careless individuals. That's too bad. We must understand it very carefully, before we accept such laws, what the risks are, and why we are not ready to use a greater national language tool to protect our country's homes. Again, I ask: " Does she disagree that this is a dangerous situation for a vulnerable household? I want an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u150	A respectable president. I would like to emphasize it in my case here, as I have mentioned earlier, that I don't think that there is a huge difference between the prices of the loans of extorted success loans in this regard. It's all based on stability. That's my answer. I don't have any other answers to that. Our homes are no better protected from the prices of loans today, possibly the loans that are being approved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u151	Madam President. This is a very interesting conversation that occurs mainly from the mouth. paritaprevir Theodóra the Þorsteinsdóttir. Now it's not the first time a bill of this type appears or very similar to a bill at least. In its reviews, the Navy has strongly warned of the consequences of opening the shelter of safety loans to consumers who do not have gang control. That's exactly what they're doing on the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir has been an active combatant against gang-trusted loans. That battle has certainly not taken place before closed doors. That battle was a new success in the leading of elections and debates. A senator has made good use of this in public, to form a documentary about himself and his position. So I'd like to hear from what. A senator, about the bill on this subject, whether she thinks this gang control is sufficient for the consumers who intend to borrow success; and what she, this hardworking fighter she is, feels that he is opening up this loan to the consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u152	A respectable president. There are so many amazing things I have to correct in this matter. First of all, I'm not a very active combatant against gangsta loans, just to be perfectly clear. If you really know what I was fighting about - whether it was a loan deal or a lease, I'm not a very strong fighter against it. Besides, I'm not on that basis, because of my fight, in politics. An election was held in October, the documentary, snooze. A senator quoted, was shown in January, so I took special care not to use this case and my personal matters in the elections, just to be perfectly clear. I'm not here on the grounds of less interest or other interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u153	Madam President. I didn't get an answer from what? A senator appreciates her feelings about this bill, opening loans on gang insurance loans to consumers with insufficient protection. I didn't get the answer to my question here. I'd love to hear a thought. It's for a senator. Then I'm gonna try again. What is her view of Iceland's currency, and how will she use her power to meet the goals set out in the Government Treaty of the current government of currency? What will she do with her life? Will she put it into practice by being a zealous fighter for a matter, such as this one? I don't know, about that word. A senator that she has not used her own experience in leading the election I refer to the website of Brighter's Future, where her personal experience is derived from a word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u154	A respectable president. I think it's fundamental that loan contracts are legal. They were making deals legally, they weren't before. I don't mind this bill. I want a successful loan. It only matters that people are informed of them and that credit terms are legal. That's basic. It wasn't here before when credit institutions were offering people illegal loans. I think there's a little difference between whether the terms are legal or not. I hope I've answered that question. But, hey. A senator quoted a documentary that was shown especially in January about my struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u155	I was asking about government currency policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u156	If you don't mind me adding, I'm hoping that the current job is in progress, a project management -- there's a group going over that direction. I hope there's such a thing... [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Take it up, pick it up, pick it up, pick it up, pick it up, pick it ……]] I think there's something very rude in this room. [[President (TheE): The talk has taken place.]] I think I weigh it personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u157	A respectable president. I'm not going to get involved in personal affairs here, because I haven't seen the film on this subject and now I just thank God. Maybe I'm lost in class not seeing that movie. I want to start by thanking the gods that the head of the United States isn't a football coach, because he's just lost his dollar here that he's been playing a hard drive from a collapse, although, in fact, we may have made a solution recently. But it will all come back, of course. Hv. paritaprevir Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir is here trying to talk to us about the successful loans. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she is content with what is obviously included in the bill: two teams are being created right now, and they are to be rewarded in the country by letting her go and play in foreign lands, taking a foreign loan, without having no guarantee that it will ever happen to the public in Iceland, who will pay the bill again if there's something bad going on in another place. Is the senator content to cross the Council Bank's tips where they suggest... - Hv. þm. Óli Björn Kállson was encouraging people to talk here, so I encouraged him to let me talk. [[Up front.]] He can come below or get an answer or something. I'll talk to you if you want to come up against me, Óli. Hv. A senator, of course, would have to answer, of course, whether she would agree to ignore the Suflavor's tips, which warned the late bank that it is being allowed without having sufficient insurance. In another thing, I'd like to ask the senator, because I didn't see this film, if it's wrong here, that she's turning in her mind when it comes to borrowing credits. I just don't know. I want to hear it from what I'm talking about. Senator. Third, I would like to ask how the senator feels about what has happened here at least. two speakers, that those who are going to take those foreign loans are trying to avoid the responsibility of playing, as I said earlier - to be here under the economy that needs to be. It's set in my mind that there's something here that's supposed to be more fun than the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u158	A respectable president. I don't know better than here are companies who borrow foreign funds, that here are companies in the country who even settle in foreign coins, a lot of companies. I feel that it matters in the discussion when it comes to whether such loans are really allowed or not and not to be protected. I have full confidence in the group that will accept a potential success loan, in order to assess the risk that he will take. I just have to be completely honest about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u159	A respectable president. I wondered, " Could the senator's words be interpreted in such a way that the senator was at the same time expressing full confidence in all foreign - borrowed persons who did not have access or insurance to what became a state of state so that some years ago, all hell went down here? ' Doesn't the senator worry that such a thing can happen again? I'd also like to ask the senator about when she would like to stop. When the library has become 50 billion or 100 billion? When should the Bath - sheba intervene? When is the trust that the senator seems to expect to have on this little thing that will be able to borrow these? When does it start to black out? When will she worry? Has she come to appreciate the standard that must be somewhere in the councilman's head since she loves it so much? I wondered, " Did the senator really look at the matter in the background, especially from the experience she seems to have and was named here as a form? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u160	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate in this discussion that I'm not against gang trust loans and I haven't turned into my opinion, I'm not a very active fighter against gang-trusted loans, I've never been. I just want to keep it straight and answer it so that I feel it's a basic premium in credit agreements that the contracts and terms are legal. [[Up front.]] That's what's most important in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u161	Madam President. System hazard is the word we should be talking about here. System hazard is when many people try to protect themselves, but parts of them fail. The overall outcome if many fail at the same time is simply a collapse of the system itself. That's what it's all about, even though everyone's trying to watch out for themselves. Everybody's trying to watch out when they borrow. No one's trying to go under in a personal bankruptcy. That doesn't seem to be something to be desired. System hazard is when we fail as a community to watch all of us at the same time. What we're talking about in this case is opening up some loans where some get to play in low interest areas abroad while others are trapped in a high - interest system where no refuge is given except the name of a pension fund, an investment fund, a hedge fund, or something like that. If you're an individual, if you run a small business, you have to accept a very high-growing environment, which unfortunately is pretty pathetic, unless you're a much richer person. That is where the problem lies. It is an adjustment from the smaller part that tries to improve the situation slightly by only reducing the risk of the system by requiring cover of foreign property when borrowing foreign coins. It reduces the hole that was created in the original bill. This bill is about creating a hole, which is certainly required that we do it because we're part of the EEA business, but the hole is huge by definition. That's not a good thing. If we can reduce it a little, it's fine, but it's not gonna solve the big problem. The big problem is: A dollar, our fine dollars, is not suitable for this project in a totally free money system. We can't trust a currency that's on a constant footprint to all our clients. If this were a minor flutter, if it were a little bit, like, for example. A dollar to Euro, it wouldn't be a problem. But we're talking about a fluke of 17◯18%, this is hardly 18% in the past six months, Madam President. It's quite a flutter for any currency. On top of that, the harbor bank in some form of disorientation has decided to stop buying a currency reserve. It's a rather strange decision because the currency oath is a national receiver we use to prepare us precisely for some sort of systematic shock, especially when we are moving more and more into foreign business with our big fluttering crown. I'd say it was a grouchy nation that focused on positive personal standings in some accounting game but ignored the security. When we open the door to such borrowing, the eye's desire is not diminished. So I've said before that I'm all for opening this up in the end. It's necessary. That's what we need to do under the EEA Convention. But we've been waiting for this, we've put this off for years, and we can totally postpone it for a few more years or until we've got clean what currency we're going to use for the future, or what arrangements we're going to use for the future, whether or not we can get a connection to this flutter, try to make the crown remain stable, which she's never been. When we are in that position, we may be able to begin to trust that the private people will not play some game in their low - interest zones abroad and deplore our economy by abusing the gaps we open in the General Assembly. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson says that we need to know more about what center or money system we're going to use for the future before we finish this conversation. We can postpone this as we have postponed it since 2010, which reminds me is the first year of the requirement. We can take this bill back up again, maybe in the fall, maybe in the fall below, sometime when we have better answers. At least we can't talk about this when they've already happened, after people are taking such risks -- and, yes, we're all going to watch our backs, but we, as a system, don't watch our own. Let's talk about this then. Let's talk about this when 18% swings in six months isn't real in our economy. Let's talk about this then, but not before. Let us at least agree to this modest, moderate, adjustment of the memory of the item, but by all means, let's postpone it, put it on ice. Let's wait on it. This isn't necessary right now. That hurts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u162	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's lack of competitiveness as well as professional interests is that such a flutter is over. So I've been a spokesman for the government government, the Council of State, the government that handle this matter, to use it in some reasonable way in an effort to reduce these fluctuations. I want to ask you why. A senator about what I went to my speech yesterday on a kitchen day. V.E.G. The secretary of finance would like to get Iceland into the European Union; he would not hide it, even in his dress. But by failing to take action that might exist, the situation becomes more and more difficult, perhaps returning to the position we saw in 2009. Then they began to look for the only way out of it to be Euro. Is it possible, in the opinion of the senator, that this bill - to finish it here and now and to give a certain amount in Iceland an opportunity to avoid the yoke of the banking system and the pension fund in Iceland, to make a living, to let some people start taking foreign loans on much less interest - is helping to create this position? Has the senator wondered, " Is it careless to run this case through, before people deal with the problem of huge fluctuations in the gangs, perhaps being aware of a decision? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u163	Madam President. I'd rather not believe in any Icelandic politician that it's a conscious decision to get us into the position that we have to choose between accepting a system crash or putting up with something. I'm not gonna blame anybody here. I hope there's no such thing going on. But it's certainly the case that if this bill is accepted, it's pretty much what's offered. System collapse is certainly an option. We cannot cancel that possibility because we have experienced that possibility. We've seen what happens when there's a system crash. We know the kind of situation that makes this possible. Knowing, one of the things that happens is that people start borrowing lots of foreign coins without being protected by foreign property. On the contrary, there's the other one, which makes me totally available, i.e. to look at alternative options for money policy. I'm not convinced that it is necessarily the solution of all the matters for us to record the euro, and certainly not one side, but I've talked for free terms to euro or other currency as a way that works well for some countries. But this is a conversation we have to have. This conversation hasn't happened yet. The committee has been named, but it's not here. We don't know what that committee has to say. Until we know it, it's just a little out of place because we're being set up between a crash and money of a different kind than we're used to, between a rock and a sledgehammer, maybe you could call it, and there's just nothing positive. In any case, we must insist that we always have the power to get out of the circumstances we are in when we are looking at opportunities for money, since everyone can be wrong with this. Even if I believe in some sort of divulge, I could possibly be wrong about that. So we must have the possibility of returning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u164	A respectable president. This bill, if it's legal, will give a certain group the opportunity to escape all too much interest in Iceland, inflatable interest, and borrow in foreign currency with a much lower rate of interest. Under the present circumstances, it is quite attractive to a large group of Icelanders. It is a well - thought - out subject. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir that people should be trusted, should be trusted individually. But when many get together and this becomes a significant amount of money, say 50 or 100 billion, the Bath - sheba may intervene and say that this is now a system hazard, that it has become a risk that defends the entire population. And it shall come to pass, that if it be hurt, it shall fall upon all the people with good fortunes and with great stature; and if it be enough, it shall be delivered unto them. During discussions on this subject in the past winter, I asked the highest volume. The secretary of finance, in his opinion, would have to be, but I didn't get an answer. I cut it right here at the end of the day. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir, Senator of Bjart's Future, said that he had no objection to such loans and did not answer that question. Then you must appreciate it so that the two fine groups that are in the Independence Party agree that it is wise to allow a certain group to get past the Sylvester's RG and to make up a possible pox in which the Navy has to intervene. Has a what? A senator, because he now sits on a financial and business committee, realizes how much such loans can be taken, how many can be taken, and how much money it will be before the Council Committee has to intervene and stop so that everyone in the country will not be harmed? [[The president calls.]] Of course, the others will make money that can take those loans if there is no system hazard and no damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u165	Madam President. This sounds like another example of communism for the rich and capitalism for the poor, which is always a bit of an emergency; indeed, it is extremely popular with certain sources, and they are perhaps most in the government at the moment who experience it as an excellent outcome. I don't have an answer for what. A senator knows what that amount should be. Maybe you should go to a cent, maybe by a share of currency reserves. I haven't had any answers there, either from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers or Secret Bank or anyone else's. Maybe there's someone to talk about. Actually, I can imagine if that number exists, she's well hidden in a drawer. It's the number someone would have to get one cent over to get too big to get the shock, as they say: Too you to phase. It's exactly that number plus $100, that's when you've met the fact that you've never had to live up to your credit. That's a really bad combination. I'm not gonna give it to myself, though. Now we've seen it a lot that we don't have these numbers in our system. Often this risk has not been fully evaluated or above. So I can imagine that this number is not smart either. Maybe you should go to 20% of the currency store, 30%. If I were the Secret Bank, then I'd be at least in my position now that I continued to buy a currency reserve, such as Switzerland, and I would follow up on the currency store, but I wouldn't stop because it's conservatively desirable to be in plus Icelandic crowns despite some kind of gangraking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u166	Madam President. I would like to recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the database law, No. 103/2006, with subsequent changes, land information base, and liberation of land data. The background of this committee view is presented between the 2nd and 3rd. is that there was a request that the case be taken back to the committee. I received the request that the 1st Vice-president of the Environment and Transport Committee, especially in view of the fact that the Committee had submitted its opinion several hours before the completion of the narrative, writing it an initial attack on the Commission to some extent. After it was completed, between that time, the envelopes came and even the rest came in. One comments that were slightly negative to the matter than to any other comments that had been made. At that time, it was appropriate to call a committee meeting and proclaim to those who had brought them a review to the meeting, along with the Ministry's representatives, in order to give them the opportunity to share their views with the committee. In view of this, the majority of the committee decided to respond to some of the comments made, but the majority suggest that the bill be agreed as unchanged. Then I'm going to make an account of the commission. As I said, the committee took the matter into consideration between the 2nd and 3rd. and was contacted by Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry and Karl Arnar Arnarsson from Air Pictures ehf. From the time the committee took care of the issue to the second. has received comments on the subject from Insecure ehf, Air Pictures ehf., Organization and Iceland's Weather Office. The Committee concluded that the bill could lead to a more competitive Iceland survey where the Agency would be permitted to collect and provide data with greater accuracy than the 1:50 criteria. Thousands of people today live in accordance with current law. The bill's report and at a meeting of the Committee stated that the Ministry made a competitive assessment according to the opinion of the Contestance Commission, No. 2/2009, government competitiveness. The result of evaluation would have been that no further analysis of the competitive effect of the bill was required. In addition, it was noted that the decision to establish more precise data and to begin direct competitive business ventures with such data required by the Agency to produce a large amount of funds that could only be used to further financial costs. Thus, the presence of the Generalis would be needed, but this bill did not follow up on increased financial resources to the Agency. The projection of the change would be that Iceland's Geographical Studies could use land data which would be the result of various of the Agency's projects in building a land cover and comparable information that would be available to other government institutions and rural areas. Such information would be equal with private sources. The majority of the cells do not see a reason to change the bill as it is, but they emphasize that the changing of the bill does not result in an increase in the competitiveness of Iceland's National Research. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under these publications. Councilmen Pawel Bartoszek, vice president and executive, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karen Elísabet Halldórsdóttir, Óli Björn Kárason and Tothol Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u167	A respectable president. I recommend to the Commission my share of the environment and transport committees on the bill to correct the change of land measurements and databases laws. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, head of the majority opinion, was fine in his talk about the matter, how it came to include guests between the 2nd and 3rd. In itself, I have nothing to add. However, we represent the memory of the section that signed this opinion. We feel that this visitor did not change the matter or call for any particular opinion. They needed to respond to the comments that were made in which concerned guests gave a review of the matter when it was submitted at the time two years ago and there were no new information that came up between discussions, so there was no need to make a matter of material choice. All of this lay ahead, but I'm sure I'd react and call in guests because of the unique circumstances. The majority opinion went over in its case. At our committee party, we tore up this process. We discussed the matter between 2 and 3. ... likea whale. The majority opinion went over. At a meeting of the Committee, a representative of the climate was worrying about possible changes in the company's position on the approved bill. The committee reviewed their viewpoint with the Ministry's representative. The smaller section does not see reason to tear away rather the viewpoints presented at the meeting, since nothing new appeared that is not available, including in reviews when it was presented to the 144th legislature, trial 560. So there is no need to address some aspect of the matter specifically. Rather, it is sufficient to refer in general to the bill's report. The smaller section does not see why the bill changes as it is and suggests that it will be accepted unchanged. Under these are the publications that stand here, boy. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. paritaprevir Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir As I mentioned in my case and in the introduction of the committee's opinion, these were a bit of a special situation, and fortunately, we haven't had to take care of this in other matters during this council. I restate on the fact that my knowledge is not just any reason to publish a special high point of view on the basis of information that was presented at a meeting. The environment and transport committee today. It was to be clear to all members of the committee what the situation was, and it was to be seen by the visitors who came to the committee. It's been exposed for at least Two years, if not anymore, because this case has been raised before. But it is good that the matter would be agreed together. We in the smaller part support it. This is good, and it needs a case that will benefit many when it works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u168	Madam President. I'm involved in the theory of the committee as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé explained that national and state-of-the-house soil tests contain data affecting both chemicals and land information in the old and new forms. I view the Agency as necessary to make it always accessible, however as private companies in this article, or as a result. The Agency no longer competes with private companies but buys from them data, such as other government institutions, and will still do so. Distinguishing changes in land measurements and basic credit cards provided here do not interfere with the process. The changes laws only increase access to important data without the need for payment. Therefore, the memory part does not see why the bill should change, as shown in the case of the bill. A senator before me, and we jointly share the Ágústa Augustusdóttir of Þórdísardóttir from the Piranha so that it will be agreed as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u169	Madam President. I recommend here for the continuation party from a greater part of the employment committee on bill to correct the change in the law on marine crops, on fish management, and on fishing fees (i.e. the founding of seas for employment). The committee reexamined the bill that now awaits the second. At the council. The committee received comments on the subject and was called to the committee, as indicated by the opinion of the greater portion from May 22, on the cover. 874. It also proposed changes that are called back, but most parts continue to change by Count 5. The bill that is not material. In addition, the more part contributes to a number of changes to the bill: First, a change in Article 3 is proposed. that, as appropriate, the use of sea plants should be in accordance with nature protection laws and British protection laws. Second, a change in Article 4 is proposed. In terms of research and research not only by a Merological Institute but also by Iceland's Natural Science Institute, research and development of marine and eco-efficiency, ecosystems and life related to it. Then the Oceanographic Institute should seek the history of the Natural Institute for counselling on the use of marine vegetation. It is also suggested that the organisations be allowed to negotiate with other bodies for the performance of tests or monitoring and to maintain a regular reporting and availability database. Third, a change in the B- team 5 is proposed. This article outlines that marine growth is permitted and that before such decisions are made, sea - level uses are usually consulted by the Oceanographic Institute. The majority suggest that the information of Iceland's Natural Science Agency and the events of other people, such as the British Environment Committee for the Use of Marine Energy in Brefuscation, should also be sought. Fourth, see paragraph 7. will be a factor in the priority of the Bluemaker Corp. has a total of 20,000 tons of smokers. At the same time, it is suggested that the prohibition against extending or handing up authority be clearly stated on this requirement. Finally, a fish - control law is proposed to include a temporary addition of a new plan to implement a research and monitoring programme for the environment of British countries in connection with the use of marine resources and should be reached for at least three years. The costs for testing and monitoring under the directive are expected to be paid from the state's funds provided by each institution. In addition, the provision of a preliminary review of the laws of marine growth should be given as the law of the bill, no later than October 1, 2020, and the violations of January 1, 2021. Óli Björn Kárason points out this in advance that the regulations of the bill may include a special violation of property rights. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the above changes made in a special Senate document. Under these writings of this magazine, daughter of Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, executive director of the trade committee, Ásmundur, Hanna Friðriksson Frildurksson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Óli Björn Kárason, in advance, Þórunn Eglur's Egilsdóttir, and Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir's daughter. I refer to the adjustment proposals made in a special Congress Report No. 985, section 272.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u170	Madam President. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Committee's opinion if I understand correctly, that this law involves assigning a certain portion of a sea resource, in this case, the hanger and the sea, in the manner - and then the proportion of the things that are in the public interest of these new laws. Because much of this, my brother's party, if I get it right, is on my own. That is exactly what happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was able to comment, that it was acting in a specific way as a violation of property rights. But there's some part in the public market and there's a decision to make, not according to what I know, is at all the way in the Union policy and on Pirata's policy, that such natural resources should be given up and tried to obtain a fair price or a full price. There are differences in the way they are spoken, in the bill of administration and elsewhere. But that's a point we have in our course, Pirata. I know why. An executive how much of what's being assigned is in a public place?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u171	Madam President. Today, the person who wins the crew makes the party, i.e. The heavy - colored factory of the Rhools, negotiates with the landowners what he uses to make a tap, and falls within the grid. Then treat them with landowners. In this matter, it should continue in the same way. For what belongs to the landowners under the Internet, it is necessary for the person who is authorized to negotiate. And just to make it right, there's a provision: The majority of ministers allow for the use of sea plants in Brequiil before the study and monitoring programme is established and the proposal for sustainable use should be agreed only to five years at the same time and to provide the most precautionary measures. I think this is the answer I can give you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u172	What about a percentage that...?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u173	I don't have that ratio available to answer that, boy. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u174	Madam President. However, the head of the Committee opinion of the greater part must at least know if there is a ratio in the public market, which it recommends to be distributed. I know it's a business policy of left greens in the fishing business that one third of the party is on the market and offered at auction. I'd be very strange if a member of the Committee and the chairman of the case, the one measuring for it, would accept these laws without knowing if any of the natural resource is in the public interest but should be assigned in this way. For in the final analysis, we can ask: How was the sea resources provided at the time? She was assigned for her three - year use. That's what they did back then. It's supposed to be moving this up for five years. What examples are there for us? I'm gonna put some heat on it. That's where I try to be careful. And the executive of the case must know whether it is suggesting a new distribution of the sea resources with these laws that have not been made before, whether any part of what the manager suggests in public terms. An authority must be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u175	Madam President. We're talking about assigning newborns. It's a permit. A certain time. This bill has a set of sunset rules for a particular time. There is nothing to bind the hands of governments that will be controlled when these laws run their course, how they should use a common resource, which is certainly a certain percentage in the British market that does not fit within the Internet layers. It will be fully implemented. We know that a resource management committee is at work with the Department of Professional Railroads. No doubt, resource costs due to the use of sea plants are being discussed in that committee. I don't think we're setting an example in this matter. The governments involved in this case when the law runs are totally free of charge, even though this license has been granted for the five years. It is a fact that it is very important to engage in strong research on the environment of the British ground, not only in the sea and seaside, but also in the interaction of the environment with other marine life in the pine, which is very necessary. There is a fire station for crops such as cod, sag, snogging, birds - a field is part of their food chain. The food chain there is wide variety, so it can be viewed not only on the floor and on its own, but on the whole. [[The president calls.]] And that's what I believe is that this bill is being ensured, and research and monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u176	Madam President. The thing that turns me toward is, in fact, a fundamental difference in the length of a storyteller and his head. Business committee. Such a situation was very late to the Committee. However, since the first day of the Senate, this matter was due to come to the committee. I studied it then, and after a review, it changed pretty little about three weeks before the end of the council. Then there is a new proposal that was very improved, and there is nothing to belittled that the new proposal presented here is good. But that's it, but then -- then I'm invited to a job committee meeting at 7:00 p.m. to accept a change proposal because something probably went wrong in the redesign. It was not particularly acceptable to a national research agency. By then, however, the bill has been transferred to the point where the sun's setting would last two years longer than it originally did. My understanding was that there we would be sharing limited quality for a very limited period of time while we would have basic research on how we would have benefited from taking these things out of the living things. Since this has been extended, the next government may be going to do this and put it in a law based on sharing experience, it's based on experience, and for three years. I remember a bill referring to macroil, the public funds given by Regulation because it was not received through the council at its time. But the same law was quoted so that now the time had come to be assigned. So I took my name off of the document, although I would have liked to be on it. But it's way too fast. I'm introduced to this adjustment proposal as if it were a minor setting for how a ball pen is supposed to be in a Icelandic community or something. But the reality is that this is a fundamental change and war against my political belief that public quality is being spread through the market system. There are groups at the General Assembly who made that out before elections, and here was the perfect opportunity for the first time to do it, create an auction system, tailored it, because there are horses in the field and larges outside the grid. Then there is the fact that in this bill, landowners are being limited. They're saying, "If you don't get any rights, don't take more than 10 tons of your fun out of the public interest." Should this be 100 tons? Five hundred? I don't know. The number we can remove from Brefjord is not available, but the bill still insists that these data are available. I don't know, that's not enough information. I was exposed to this situation, and unfortunately this is the case. Piranians can't agree with this on their own. Or changed. Or changed, changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u177	A respectable president. I recommend an extension party with a change in bill proposal to correct a law on equal positions and male and female rights, no. 10/2008, with subsequent changes, equally paid witness. Since I'm running out of time, I'm not going to hold my equal and eulogy speech. I'm just going to study the material of the committee to show how much the committee put into this matter. We had 27 visitors two times. The committee received 22 reviews. Just today, two meetings will be held on this matter. The bill suggests that laws of 10/2008, equal positions and equal rights of women and men, allowing the commitment of companies and institutions which usually work 25 or more employees on a yearly basis, to obtain equally pay by special certification of a professional official. It is assumed that such a candidate has acquired a professional basis in a private secret office or a comparable member of the European Economic Area in accordance with Article 4. Regulation No. 929/2014, a witness to the company's equal labour systems as well as to institutions on the basis of standard 85:2012. It is suggested that the standard IST 85, the equal pay system ▪ Qualifications and instructions, be provided for the basis of a equally paid witness under the bill. It is suggested that enterprises and organisations with 25 or more employees should conduct a certain procedure to establish whether they have equal pay conditions, i.e. that the equally paid system of the person and the implementation of it meets the conditions of the equally paid standard. At the same time, it is suggested that the labour market organisation be established to negotiate in collective agreements so that the assessment of the company's equal pay system or organisation, where 25◯99 workers normally work on annual terms, it is possible to request a confirmation of stakeholders in that state of pay equivalents instead of asking for the certification of a professional official. I'm just gonna take a few things, not everything. It is also suggested in the bill that enterprises and organisations with 25 employees or more are involved in the certification of Article 1. standard IST 85, but in the case of the collective labour market agreement, it is permitted to obtain a equally paid witness by obtaining the confirmation of stakeholders on the basis of Article 1. b The standard of IST 85 instead of the above - mentioned certification on the basis of Article 1. c The standard. The bill presents a range of time limits when the trust or, depending on the events, the confirmation process, is reached by contracts between the labour market partners, should be completed according to the size of companies or institutions, but it is aimed at implementing the same amount of pay-authorization in steps over a three-year period. Also, I would like to state here that companies and institutions should renew their pay card or confirmation every three years. In the presence of a equally paid certificate, the employer should return a copy of the certificate as well as a review of the results of the assessment to an equal court. A report should also be submitted if the assessment has not led to certification. It's both ways, you need to know whether or not you've done this. It is suggested that an equal rights agency be allowed to provide access to the labour market organisations' reports on the results of an assessment of the company's equal pay system or organisation have not led to the equally pay contracting in order to provide them with their own surveillance role. The bill suggests that an equal laboratory will keep a record of the companies and institutions that have received as much pay as published on the Agency's website. Based on sex pay procedures. During the treatment of the case in the Committee, there was talk of the position of equality in general and of sex pay actions. The study of gender pay and how it appears to be a ongoing problem in the Icelandic labour market was considered. The good news is that there has been a decrease in the sex - pay variability in the Icelandic labour market in recent years, but there is concern that it still counts, despite the long, high - scale efforts of women. The committee concluded that despite the clear desire of the legislatator to obtain gender pay, the legislation has not been sufficient as there is still a difference in pay between the sexes. Governments have also undergone specific actions in favour of equality, promoting awareness of employment equality. For the Committee, the importance of removing the sex pay that has been present in this country since women entered the workforce was discussed. Opinions showed that there are different ways to reach that goal, with and without law and specific action. The majority stress that the bill is a step toward ensuring that women and men receive the same salary for the same work. The majority of it feels right to bear in mind that equal pay trust is an instrument to achieve the remuneration rather than the final solution of the problem. The greater part emphasizes that it is necessary for governments to continue working to promote racial equality in the labour market and to consider other factors involved in the salary of the sex, such as sexual selection and a difference in salary between professions. Ingesting the same amount of pay certificate. This is where I'm going to spade a little fast. The Committee's meetings discussed in general what is involved in making such a witness for companies and institutions, i.e. The induction of the equal pay standard. As-achieving standard is a way for companies and institutions to establish a system that ensures that the decisions in pay are based on objective views. As a reward witness, it should not be avoided to prevent workforces between employees on pay decisions based on objective opinions or individual factors. The Committee discussed that an important milestone in an equalizing struggle would have been reached when governments had attacked certain measures instead of waiting for the workforce to change. The more part emphasizes the view that the bill is a step toward ensuring that women and men receive the same salary for the same job and that equally pay witnesses are involved in the struggle to eliminate the sexual pay and not the final solution of the problem, as I said before. For the Committee it was discussed that equally pay witness could have a positive effect on companies and organizations in considering the position of equality on the workplace in general. In addition, the greater part is right to point out that there are tools for an enterprise and an organisation that can be used concomitantly with other methods or their options for contributing to the equal pay of the sex. The status of IST 85, the equal wage system of ▪ Qualifications and guidance. In handling the case of the committee, we discussed the nature of the IST 85 equally paid standards as well as its introduction as the references to the standard on the bill. I'm just going to save these things and come to what was a bit the result of the greater part. The majority stress the importance of publishing the equal wage position and increasing the availability of enterprises and institutions to the position where it is being made mandatory. The committee pointed out that it was time for us to consider reviewing the balance standard. The largest part encourages the government to work on changing the current labour market in cooperation with the labour market organisation and the National Standards of Iceland. It's a professional witness's celebration. The Commission discussed their meetings on the professionalness of the carer, but according to the bill, the employer is expected to have a professional basis in a private office or a comparable member of the European Economic Area, in line with Article 4. Regulation No. 929/2014, a witness to the company's equal labour systems as well as to institutions on the basis of the standard IST 85:2012. However, in the treatment of the case, there were some indications on the weaknesses in the field of prosecuting and doubts that a private secret office could fulfill the legal role of the Agency in the field of professions due to lack of staff and expertise. It was noted that a witness company had to search abroad because of professional values, but this may have been high cost. After much discussion and exchange, our conclusion in the greater part was that if the bill does not allow the law to act as the seat of obstacles. The majority stress that professional interests in a private secret office will be restored and that governments will put that interests first. The role of an equal firm. For the Committee, many reporters expressed concern that an economist would not be able to perform new tasks entrusted to the Agency according to the bill. The Committee presented a view that the need for attention to promote the function of an Associative Bureau would be met if the bill did not meet its objective. The other part of the section agrees with the importance of having an equal rights firm guaranteed enough manpower to deal with new duties according to the bill. The bill's report suggests that there will be one increase in the status of an economistic facility due to the new projects hidden under the bill and that the cost in the first year will be 14 million. K. and then 13 million. K. every year. The majority point out that an aim is to introduce a equally paid witness in stages. It is important that governments consider in the induction process whether the increase in one status value is sufficient for an economistic facility and respond if necessary. The Committee also discussed the position of theJustice Committee on Equal Opportunities and the possible increase of cases at the Committee. In this regard, the greater part points out that, according to the bill, decisions on day - to - day counts are permissible to Ministers and therefore not anticipated that pressures are increasing on the charges of equality with the approved bill. Attendance of workers at the labour market. The majority of the agreements between the labour market partners have enterprises and institutions of this size other options in place of equally pay-authorization, that the assessment can be made by confirmation of stakeholders. The principle remains that the review is done by a witness and completes with the same pay card. In the bill, the labour market organisations are also entrusted with a surveillance role and in order to enable them to perform the role proposed by companies and institutions to provide information to the labour market partners and information necessary for monitoring. The greater part highlights the need for governments to cooperate closely with the labour market organisations in the implementation of the surveillance to make it efficient. Advertising, categorisation of jobs and employment culture. In handling the matter of the committee, the requirements of the equally paid standard were discussed as well as their impact on job descriptions, professions, and different workforces. The majority of these points to the evaluation of the value of work on a grammatical foundation. In this respect, the bill does not include any new physical requirements for job description or job category other than those negotiated in collective agreements or legislation. Thus, the equally pay standard allows for a job description to be documented but at the same time that job descriptions can make changes according to the needs of the workplace. The majority stress that companies and institutions thus operate job descriptions within their workplace and can, for example, be able to do so. Look to their simplicity, if it is willing, as well as the equal salary standard does not require a number of job descriptions. My company's position and institutions. At a meeting the Committee discussed the position of my enterprises and institutions, while the reviewers and visitors expressed many concern that the duties of the bill would be burdensome to my work and expenses. It was noted that the experience of companies and institutions from the induction of equally pay contracts showed that the cost was often underestimated where expert assistance might be needed and that the managers work to introduce a new system. Costs and jobs may thus vary according to companies and institutions, size and profession. However, to the committee it was noted that the experience of the workplaces who have undergone the same pay certificate showed that the cost was at the beginning, but when it came to repeating the procedure, it was less. It is suggested that approximately three different deadlines be discussed by the number of employees, i.e. whether there is a number of workers in the range of 251⁄2149, 150◯249 or 250 or more, and is expected to have the smallest enterprises and organisations in which the number of employees ranges from 25 to 2149 will have the longest time to gain validation or confirmation. The majority of the measures mentioned above are that larger companies and institutions are expected to have infrastructures that make it easier for them to implement a equally pay system, thus becoming ready to receive a witness. The majority underscores that the experience of larger enterprises and institutions can, in turn, benefit from other smaller companies and institutions that will follow. The majority believe that considering the amount of time that smaller enterprises and institutions have for validation or confirmation, they will already be provided with both expertise and solutions for smaller enterprises and organisations if problems have been identified in larger companies and institutions. By instigating equally paykeeping in several steps, jobs are allowed space to meet the requirements of the bill, pressure on the employer is reduced, and the induction is helped to succeed. However, the majority stress that smaller companies and institutions can use the time of preparation and will be equipped to deal with the process of equally pay. So the majority suggest a change in the bill of four different deadlines, depending on the number of employees and institutions, instead of three. The change includes the development of an enterprise and organisation with a headcount ranging from 90 to149 to 31 December 2020, but the enterprise and organisations in which the staff number of people is at the end of December 31, 2020. This suggests an extension of the smallest of the enterprises and institutions to be extended by one year. The more part points out that, according to the bill, Social and Equal Opportunities Minister will be granted permission to extend the demand of enterprises and institutions to gain validation or confirmation of up to 12 months. The status of public institutions and businesses. There was a view on the committee's meeting that publicisation is desirable, i.e. Officials and businesses half or more owned by the State would be among the first ones in the induction process to obtain the same salary as that it was important that the government should follow through with a good example. The majority agree with that viewpoint and suggest two changes in the bill in this regard. The majority suggest, firstly, public institutions, funds, and businesses that are half or more owned by the State, and which usually operate 25 or more employees on a annual basis, should have received a witness at 4 mg. Twenty-niner. or confirmation based on 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than December 31st, 2019 The majority stress that the change in the motion takes place, including to all public institutions and companies and loan institutions, as well as partners in the majority of the state's tenures. Then the largest part suggests that the European Commission should have received a witness in accordance with Article 4. Twenty-niner. or confirmation based on 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than December 31st, 2018. The majority underscores that Iceland's Management Board is to be viewed as a unit, i.e. that all the agencies making up the Council of Iceland go through a process to gain the same amount of pay as a body or one workplace. In addition to the induction of the government's pay centres, a greater part feels that the cost will be detected and informed institutions will ensure funding in order to meet the duties required by the bill. Results of equally payable and measurable goals. The committee established a view that it was important for governments to set their own goals, and they regularly watched for the success of action intended to eliminate the income of the sex. At the same time, the need for the government to provide a so - called toolbox for companies and institutions, which helped them to produce equally pay. The importance of monitoring the impact of the bill on gender pay in this country, and considers it desirable to do it on a regular and consistent basis, e.g. by measuring labour market development through remuneration analysis. So the majority suggest a change in the bill that a minister should have an evaluation of the effectiveness of the certification and confirmation of the company's equal pay system or organisation every two years. The majority stress that the evaluation will be performed by specialists in cooperation with the Ministry and that tests will be made in the form of the pay panels or research and statistics according to the types available. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: At Section 3. With a-a is added a new paragraph, as follows: The minister should have the evaluation of the effectiveness of certification and confirmation of the equal pay system of an enterprise or agency under this article every two years. The secretary must set up a regulations for the further implementation and format of this assessment. Then it's a "B" team that goes away. I'll talk it over at a later committee party. At Section 4. Instead, final verses 1. Let two new proverbs come, saying, Enterprises and organisations that normally work on a yearly basis should have agreed on a 4.mg. Twenty-niner. or confirmation based on 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than 31st December 2020. Enterprises and organisations in which 25◯89 workers usually work on a yearly basis shall have a contract on a 4. mg basis. Twenty-niner. or confirmation based on 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than 31st December 2021. After 1st mg. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: In spite of this regulations, government agencies, funds and companies that are half or more owned by the State and where 25 or more employees usually work on a yearly basis have received a 4. Twenty-niner. or confirmation based on 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than December 31st, 2019 In spite of all of this, the Council of Directors of the Management Board of Iceland, in accordance with the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, No. 115/2011, as determined by 4 mg. Twenty-niner. confirmed by 5 mg. Twenty-niner. in the equally pay system no later than December 31st, 2018. Those who sign this committee are: Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndirdóttir, Pawel Bartoszek, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bron Haraldsdóttir, Harðardóttir Hardarddótir, and Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Today, we were meeting and coming with a higher opinion of more things with a change of motion. This shows the view that the change we proposed is not really possible in standard terms. We can't publish or assign Iceland's Standards to publish the entire post because of the feasibility of the Board of Directors. The Commission therefore proposes in their opinion that the Local Council confirms by the Regulation of the local Ministry and shall refer to the standard. The greater part of the opinion is that the European Commission's Authorship of the standard is respected, but it emphasizes that access to the standard will be guaranteed because of the duty that the bill involves to companies and institutions. The majority of countries feel that it is right to fall from a change proposal that a minister can by law hide another government or Iceland's Institute for publication of the standard IST 85. The majority of them refer to the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the National Standards of Iceland, to negotiate access to the locator as the law of the bill. So the majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes already proposed but with the following modification: B-duty 1st. It's a log. on deck. 942 will be removed. The ones who sign the latter are: Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Director of Nichole Leigh Mosty, Director of History, Pawel Bartoszek, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Albert Guðmundsson, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson and Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u178	Madam President. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Congress would be aware that there are no processes and standards from the Ministry on the practicality of the carer in this process. Can she agree with me that the Ministry simply isn't ready for this assessment? Second of all, I ask who. A senator may agree with me that the Ministry intends to respond to the fact that Iceland's private secret office is, in fact, prepared to handle this project and that we should react by giving witnesses permission only to apply for procreation but can then start a witness. That's my understanding of the case, and I'm a little worried about it. I think this is a bit like if you were going to reach out for an elevator test, it would be enough to apply for it and you could totally drive a fork, but you didn't have to take the test until some time when it was ready for you to take it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with my opinion. Is it really so that it is enough for a witness to apply for a professional application in a private secret office to make this assessment? If so, what's wrong? In view of the anxiety that has been shown, is there really a skilled professional who reviews this matter so that it is not just a whitewash, rather than a real reward?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u179	I understand there are certain concerns about this bill. It's a very important bill, very important bill. As for the civility of the attorney, we discussed this on the very committee. There were, however, some indications of a weakness in professional matters. I'm going to read it as fast as I can from Regulation No. 365 of certification of the company's equal labour systems and institutions on the basis of the standard. It shows that the employer receives a professional basis in the private or comparable field of practice in the European Economic Area and that a caregiver who is a minister of the equally paid system should be professionally validated. In confirmation, the CA should be able to present a professional card according to the standard where the trade status is applicable to IST 85 and the requirements of this Regulation. After our discussion with the Ministry, we spoke on the committee's concerns about this. The majority of the data show that, according to Regulation, it is sufficient for the organisation to be a professional witness according to IST ISO/IEC 17021, even though the standard IST 85 has not been approved. It's not. It's not. The Ministry talked to us. It was planned to increase the number of testimonials that can be evaluated and expressed the same pay system. I'm going to say that I believed that our concerns were taken into account and it's going to be professional diplomats to witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u180	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer is, although I'm not quite sure yet if there's a witness here who can't be professional but wait for her who, despite that, can still be a witness. But maybe I'll turn to one in the 40 seconds I have. Even now it has been found that the Ministry of Health has no authority to publish the requirements of this standard in a Regulation where Local Council is not a public agency, on the contrary, the highest level. A minister seems to have thought, would I ask if the senator's concern is not comparable to that of me in having as much as a court of law and not publishing it? Does she agree with a good government government government that the answer to this should be a negotiation of some sort with the Council of Standards and that the General is making an unpublished check to the Ministry on how these contracts will be held? [[The president calls.]] And just maybe?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u181	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir asks a lot of questions. It's been a little complicated about the Council of Standards, but I believe that today, after a lot of compromise between the Ministry and our welfare committee, we'll want to agree on this and that it will be available that this will make sure that we have access and that it will be respected, as we stated in our committee, that there will be revised in the update of standard. I'm going to put my trust in the Ministry of Health, that because of the willingness of this bill to have some effect on the balance of pay, it will be negotiated and made available for companies to work afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u182	A respectable president. Yeah. Pirates ask big questions, and the answers seem to be that the Ministry is just reliable. So let's try another big question that's about the size of the bill itself. At this level of pay, there is a sign, terribly fun signal, which says that the institution or company has received this trust, equal to the salary. That means that this company pays equal pay for the same job or equal value. In the majority opinion, it says, with permission of presidents: ▪ The more part emphasizes that the bill is a step toward ensuring that women and men receive the same salary for the same work. The majority of it feels right to bear in mind that equal employment is a means to achieve the remuneration rather than the final solution to the problem. If this is not the final solution to the problem, it is likely that it will not be equally paid for the same job or for the same value when using this device. Then I ask, " How can this be just as a pay card if this isn't the ultimate solution to the problem? ' Does not the bill simply have a false name, as reported by the clients at the Committee? It's really just a working class. For example, companies are assigned to create and organize jobs, which can explain the amount of pay they receive. After all, according to the Commission's list of parts, this is not about to give us equal wages. It's in the committee's opinion. How, then, can you issue a equally paid card? Isn't that the wrong word?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u183	At our committee party, we refer to an equal struggle. We're obvious, e.g. In some companies, women perform low-payed jobs and men earn better jobs. But these devices say that women who work in this class or work in the same service description should have equal pay. We know that it does not always save everything, but these are the first steps. I'm going to put this aside and share with you the experience that the customs manager shared with us, Iceland Bank and Power Institute. They talked to us about a very positive experience about what happened, all the work that took place in viewing and sorting jobs. Differences were seen that were not expected. It changed the atmosphere, pressured people to ask themselves what was going on, and how to cope with it. We'll tell this bill that me and you, why. paritaprevir Leví Björn, works at the General Assembly, and we have equal wages, regardless of gender. That's what makes a business. But when the company sees that there may be a problem. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear with a greater salary than what he had. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty--Why is it? What can we do to fix it? We expect this bill. We take the first step, which is simply to examine what is happening, and then we have the courage to take the next step and fix things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u184	A respectable president. That is exactly what the same reviewer said that it could be explained by this amount of pay or group of work, and no outside party would come and say that a customs manager was not worthy of them. Another person who spoke to us on the committee asked if we wanted a work group or a bill on whether we were paid equal or not. Let's look at this from outside: Now we're taking statistics from companies, pay questions, and comparing them with certain variables. This gives us an unexplained amount of pay. The companies and persons who attend the data do not support seeing the category of activity within the enterprises they receive the information from and probably get the exact same numbers. And the same parameters lead to the same unexplained pay. The company goes on to say: "We've explained this amount of pay. But the evidence doesn't say the same thing. They say there's an unexplained difference in pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u185	I have to be completely honest with you. I didn't quite understand the question. There was nothing to do with English. [[Up front.]] I think we need to take this conversation out of the hall because I didn't quite get where it is. A senator was leaving. Hv. A senator might have received another 30 seconds to bring that point. However, according to the experience we had, when these figures came up, it was not as difficult to find this difference as it was. And we were discussed with each other that PGE and Iceland Bank were mostly working on a system that was designed for them to keep their arms around it regularly so it wouldn't come back up, some continuation. We're not trying to back this up. I don't know if that answers a question I didn't understand, but I tried.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u186	Madam President. I'm happy as hell. Nichole Leigh Mosty, mentioned earlier, i.e. that if the offenders are on this bill as it is submitted--and it will be agreed tomorrow--must have to fix it. In Porta's equality policy, it is expressed -- I think all the Americans, apart from very few persons, agree that the equal rights should be in between the sexes - that a surveillance officer has the authority to investigate the pay issues of an enterprise to seek out the unexplained amount of pay, but it was stated in the Committee that things are not entirely correct regarding the evaluation of surveillance and others. If the fracturers are monitored to investigate the salary of an enterprise and to look for an unexplained amount of pay, the leading authority of the case will likely agree that they need to be dealt with. It needs to be a means of translucency in pay. The surveillance is not only one independent external surveillance provider, there are also members of the company who know it much better than the Rapporteurs, and they have access to this standard that I understand should then work on. It was included that the public should have access to this standard. The Universal Secretary of Social Þorsteinn Víglundsson did not know that it was a violation of the author's law to have it this way without talking to the Standards. The case wasn't working too well. It's understandable that you're getting on with it. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Minister of Equal Opportunities, took credit for this globally and would be very uncomfortable for him politically not to finish it now. But it may be all right to finish the case now, even though it is not completely finished if it is clear that the offenders who have been on the committee, and are not currently being fixed, will be fixed. It's a question of whether an equality minister can't say, "Yes, it's not quite perfect, but it's good to do it now, and then we can fix it. ' [[The president calls.]] And then he's going to do nothing to get in the way of the need to fix certain offenses. Is that not true of the layman of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u187	A respectable president. I'm not going to talk to you about it. Justice minister. [["No, I... "]] We've had very good communication. I admit that the bill that appears here is very extensive. We're trying to do something that will lead to something much more. I wish we didn't have to fix one bill that comes out, nothing to talk about, and not so much lying over. But I'm going to say that I'm rather happy for all my work. I listed 27 guests, but that's not the two times the Ministry gave a whole team. Then there may be more than 30 guests who came many times. There were 22 reviews. I am very grateful for all the discussions that have taken place. I'm grateful that we're making some changes and discussing them, and we'll be watching that this is going to work out well, no matter how it works out for us. This is where we're talking about something new. We're trying something, and we have to admit it. But, hey. A senator began to talk about internal surveillance and outside, if that's anything, but again I'm going to quote the last visit we had and their experience with visitors. I think it's a bit intense to hear someone say, "It turns out we had to have internal Affairs. We may not think that we need someone in the house who is concerned about equality. When it turns out, they take the step right back and they say, "Wow, we're doing it right." In view of this bill, i.e. that we're here on Internal Affairs and we'll start some external checkpoint, we'll also say, "Vo, we have to do it right."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u188	Madam President. I am not so worried about this matter when it comes to the need for a certain problem if the Senate, senators, and Ministers are as modest as ever. The head of the case, Nichole Leigh Mosty. Then we'll just try and fix it. Perhaps the best thing to do now is to finish it now if it is the spirit that it should be done only by fixing the habit that has been pointed out, not by chance. Then we have the law, that's an option, and then it doesn't have to be negotiated sometime. Some harems don't want these songs, and maybe it's good just to finish these laws now that a person will be modest when certain faults need to be tailored to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-30-75.u189	A respectable president. I hope we don't have to fix much. The thing was worked out with the labour market, and my feelings are that we will all take steps forward. If something has to be done, all of us are ready to do it. Despite all the work and the criticism that we now have, I think it's a good step. If something needs to be fixed, things will just be better for us, and maybe that will lead to the next step, as I talked about. I may be able to take my children to school, where men will receive them, and I can call as many female carpenters. This will help us to find an equation in the community.
