ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u1	At a meeting of the European Parliament of the European Security and Cooperation Agency earlier today, Brís Haraldsdóttir was elected vice president. Then the president would also like to announce that votes are expected at the end of this meeting as well as at the beginning and at a later meeting that will begin at the end of this meeting. It can be assumed that it will be around the time. 15th
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u2	President. I'd like to talk to you about the money money and the money money money money. Here, you can make an enormous number of comments on these matters, and I want to draw attention to some of the points that I feel are inexcusable. In terms of changes in budgets, there are suggestions for financing to a party that does not have any comment on at the General Sleeps or in the financial filing system. I'm told that these requests came through the Ministry and were recorded in some financial system that I don't have access to. So I can't look at the evidence that these people are being funded, nor do they apply for denied grants. It should not be difficult to guess in the gaps to understand how serious this matter is. In addition, funds are being searched for on a variety of subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with financial aid. I asked the Ministry of finance to explain why each individual authority lived in financial aid on the conditions they are given. Then I would also want to explain what measures have been taken in order to keep a budget within sources and to see how reserves have been taken care of. The answers were made earlier today, and they definitely did not contain the explanation I asked for, so I put things carefully. For example, a shepherd's fine quality is to be met with the problem of the sheep farmers, of which 100 million are to be placed in other payments, which the Ministry has not yet decided on what to do. At last, there is a budget for which commitment is not established, but because of the difficulty in predicting what is to be used, it is difficult to accept such legal authority at this time of the day. In general, it has been confirmed that until now, legal documents have been sought, which have been said to pay or commitments that have already been established. This is an extremely bad custom that conflicts with 41rd pars. The Constitution and the General shall unite in allowing the government to stop putting it this way against a wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u3	Mr. President. At this time of the year, most people are accustomed to looking over the course of their lives, valuing what they have done well, and no matter how much better they could have gone. You can't change your past, but from it you can learn and resolve not to make the same mistakes again. Most important, though, what can be more beneficial. As members of the Parliament, we have the privilege of having a considerable influence on the development of Icelandic society with the legal and economic frames that we thus enjoy. At that time, most Icelanders celebrate a festival of light and peace in the name of their Christian faith. However, not everyone does. The number of those who believe in other religions is increasing. Similarly, the number of people who do not wish to be in the State Church is increasing. Mr. President. To me, it is long time for the Generals to accept the basic requirement of understanding that state and church. It is true that we are dealing with difficult tasks, but we must never avoid tasks simply because they are challenging. Such separations in various countries around us have already gone through to form in Sweden. Hence, it is both right and reasonable to look to their experience and thus contribute to the well - being, as well as the approval of all parties. We need to make every effort to increase freedom of worship and increase the equality of religion and principles. It's my chance to stand up for it. All members of the council are finding this important subject on a private council. That's why the superintendents are going to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u4	Mr. President. The holiday season is a good time to think about world peace. I'd like to mention two things Iceland could do to promote their peace. First, Iceland is an international ban on mines and international ban on cluster bombs. This is despite the fact that Iceland's NATO allies, the United States, run one of the world's largest minefields on the border between North and South Korea, as well as the use of a cluster bomb in warfare. It is unfaithful that Iceland cannot become an international ban on nuclear weapons because of its NATO. The defense against these weapons for Iceland is nothing. The threat of nuclear weapons is clear now that 2,056 such bombs have been detonated in military and experimental efforts. It is true that every country must be disarmed, not just our NATO partners. You might even argue that North Korea, Pakistan and India should be the first to disarm. But Iceland's involvement in an international agreement on the prohibition of nuclear weapons would help, not diminish, that. Another: It was reported yesterday that the president of the United States was having a violent attack after the United Nations made a very clear stand against his decision to accept Jerusalem as Israel's capital, one - sided decision that threatens many decades of peace. This event will cost the United Nations $258 million a year on reduced donations. Perhaps it would be appropriate for Iceland to show a meeting of the UN's goals, one of the most important world's institutions for world peace, and to add some of our contributions, thereby setting a good example for other countries, the 192 countries that could provide funding for the Agency. Iceland can take this political fight for world peace today during this uncertainty period, and we should. We must be a leading force in behalf of all mankind. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u5	President. During a discussion of the budget, I was told that I would not agree in silence and in terms of the transport plan and the financial plan of the State and the financial laws. This came to my mind when I listened to what I heard. A senator and former secretary of transportation, Jón Gunnarsson, who spoke with a great deal of knowledge about transport on radio show this morning. Still, this feeling of intervening developed, and now it seemed to me that there was going to be a situation within the parties. That's what I want to draw attention to. In the middle of this discussion, some half a billion people fell from the sky to start construction at the Valley of the Sun in the East. Since the last time we met, people from the east have been in touch. This work did not come close to the priority of setting half a billion in without any discussion. Of course, it is not a question presented in this context, but it would be interesting to know in what way half a billion are being carried out in the Slither Valley road work when a much more urgent project is called in the East is waiting to be paid for. What replaced it? Was it just some horse deal at the end of the stretch?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u6	A respectable president. I would like to briefly discuss political trust and responsibility. It was this way in the campaign that the present world power was at its height. The minister of justice appeared on an advertisement, and it depended on: responsibility in action. Now the National Court has been appointed in a way that is completely undefeated at this time. The Supreme Court has decreed that the Minister of Justice has violated a law by means of his tactics. More important, there is why. More than that, that date took place on June 1 of this year. Then they kept what they were. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, a major milestone talk, apparently using foul language to describe the need for time and had a month more to do this properly under law. This is shown in a minority list and in the book of memory from the time it was an example in the court's court case of No. 412/2010. It is the same example that the Supreme Court points to today. There's nothing new in court. Nothing. This all lay before June 1. V.E.G. In my opinion, a minister of justice made a conscious decision to compromise the law. You shouldn't have to call for the ultimate. Ministers shoulder responsibility. They are to see their dignity in responding to such obvious mistakes and predictable mistakes, with the same materials as the Supreme Court has now confirmed, with the responsibility of the minister and of course resigning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u7	A respectable president. It has not been overlooked that there is considerable unrest at the labour market at this time and uncertainty about the extension of labour contracts at the beginning of the next year. It is, in fact, there. of the labor movement had high social stability. However, it seems that a new government is going to have a labour market fully developed for such stability in collective agreements rather than contribute precisely to the financial work available today. It'll even come. to the greater extent, i.e. Government officials have already dropped ideas of a special growth growth process, and there are no plans for special changes in child reforms or interest improvements to move back to normal. This is a direct anti-announcer for the tax system. Perhaps it would be much better to believe that a more important part was to protect the equalization of the tax system in order to contribute to social stability, rather than allow markets to take it through collective agreements. It is also helpful to bear in mind that here there is a guard on this tax balance role and the changes the government promotes regarding a special reduction in the subsidies of the tax system, and the decline in insurance costs are not those that are some exchanges or currency in the discussion of agreements in the coming year. Therefore, representatives of the employee have already declared it. So I think the government must reconsider its position on this matter. There is still an opportunity for us to do so in the 3rd districts. ... abundant. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u8	A respectable president. Today, I choose to make the subject of my missing Senate votes. In the spirit of a new challenge, I would like to remind the government of and discuss with all the members of the council how we see ourselves a new work done by the following members of the Parliament, the following recommendations made by various committees appointed by the General Assembly. How do we follow it? How is the council designed to fulfill its role as a research officer with the Commission and its role as lawgiver? Now, I review a few interpretations that have only been salty and that no one knows their fate. There is the interpretation of the investigation of the privateisation of banks, the interpretation of various issues associated with freedom of expression and authorship, i.e. about the English Modern Media Initiative as it is often called, which lies just in a drawer of the Ministry, and the synopsis of the overall conferences of brain failure. These include a mental - health program that we have no tools to follow. There is a total reevaluation of a law on abortion that has not happened. There is also a review of the Law on Addiction, Drugs, and other legislation, which in accordance with the motion of a staff at the time being the highest level. A reexamination is needed by a health minister, Kristján Þór, son of Júlíusson. All of this lies ahead, but what are the instruments of the council to follow through on this? They're very, very few, tops. President. We have no means except possible inquiries and reports requests and other information to find out what situation the council agrees with, the instructions we give to the Commission. I propose to the entire body of Congress that we work together to strengthen the resources that the Parliament has as a member of the European Commission to comply with the regulations given to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of media control. There are a number of factors, both my interest in the environment and the media in general, but not least, discussions that have come up in these last days and that there is a report that will discuss the matter, that I think it is just ready. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has put in the media an idea to drop the sink on the media subscription and the highest. A minister of education has also expressed herself on various ways that could be used to strengthen the environment of the media. I welcome any idea of how the government can penetrate the media's environment. In many ways, there is a child in Iceland. It was based on unnatural circumstances, political parties, and the media. Free media in Iceland isn't that old. Today's environment is such that social media have great influence in this regard. They have a region for advertising, and they even release national laws on taxes. So there are some things to consider. I think there's something I don't have to do, but all in the process, because the democratic role of the media is extremely important. I'd like to call in for a brief consideration of coincidence because of what can really be called a marketing failure that results from community media. You might consider dropping sinks, not just from subscriptions, but from the media in general. For example, insurance may be checked, whether or not it could be dropped temporarily. I think we should look to Norway and a white book that was produced on the media that can be found on the Web site of the media committee. I got it. I got it. The U.S.R. to gather together and examine all of this. [[The president calls.]] Because all things need to be examined, and the least of them can be excluded, e.g. ... scholarshiptothe press.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u10	V.E.G. President. It is well - known that the Icelandic and Icelandic public enjoys the largest interest available in the Western world. This success of companies and individuals is being carried out under the rhythmic banks of Iceland, which put the banks at work with too high control growth. However, it is not simply a matter of high interest that the banks lend to the public. Pays the bank of so - called services, which are, in short measure, the jar for all that was free on banks in the past, were mined in 2014-2016 105 billion dollars. It is certain that the development of banks that has occurred since collapse has been funded by individuals and businesses in the country and is of no concern to bankers in itself. I'd like to guess one point that's incorporated into banks for Christmas right now this year. They publish and sell a so-called gift card, for 1,500 bucks. The piece I think, since individuals and businesses can enter a map and give Christmas to friends and family members. But that's not all the story, and the banks haven't really let go of this Christmas gift, because the person trying to cash in or to get a bill to this business card has to pay 180 bucks. for doing so. The unfortunate person who has received a business card from another business bank, but he does business with the honor of paying 480 bucks. for emptying the map. I have to admit that the imagination of these men to milk the public is something I think about. If it wasn't that serious, I'd be impressed. But coming up with ideas like this year after year - it is not surprising that these men have a fine salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u11	A respectable president. The National Theater premiered on the second day of Christmas The Ólafur Haukur son of Símonarson It was first moved to that same house 25 years ago, in the fall of 1992. I was so lucky to see the show 25 years ago, but it's also on the second day of Christmas, and the project is quite consistent with time. What is it about? The sea is full of powerful fishing contractors, his family, and their vicious conflicts over family wealth. And what's the money? Yes, a respectable president, it's a permit to catch our fish from the sea, our fish. The children want to have the message sold so that the money will be cashed in before the Orientals decide to change the system. The developer has ties to his village and does not agree with it. Mr. President. This is our story, this is the history of the Þingeys, this is the story of the Gímur Islands, the Redfarings, the Fleets, the Pacific, and here we are, 25 years after Ólafur Haukur wrote this play, and we are in exactly the same place. What is the General Assembly of the Icelanders doing for the settlements of the country? What is the General Assembly of the Icelanders doing for the owners of this animal that soars in the water? Not one thing, since the financial situation of the few is to be worth more than the community. How in the world is it that we are in this place? The Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, speaks of the Constitution and reviews the Constitution. Over the past few years, I have been offered to the Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Laws and urged the government to skim up the sleeves and also to complete my work on the review of the Constitution, since this work is well along.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u12	Mr. President. Then the nation's royal way. In the year 535 billion the currency industry is headed for the year, and the government's income is about 535 billion. 10% of that, i.e. 54 billion. The source is a valuable tax, accelerator fee, national park parking fees, car tax, etc. Although growth has slowed down, I predict that within a relatively few years, we will see three million tourists and more. Then I count the Icelanders with it. This calls for a hell of a job on the inside. I'd like to mention roads, transportation, health care, airports, national parks, groundkeeping, law enforcement, etc. How should we get over it without having more fees, e.g. what is often not included in the discussion, and even other changes, as per the Treaty? It turns to Icelandic nature and Icelandic society's limit of endurance and control of tourism. Then I'm going to remind myself of a report I got approved here that is being worked at the travel Department and should be ready in February. I believe it will be the basis for the collective revenue policy of the state and of the community of this group of languages, which is a very important task. It is a work to do in the first months of the new year. Of course, you need to work on such a program in line with a new government budget, and I'm sure there will be a better time in these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u13	V.E.G. President. There is no need for the government groups, especially government leaders, to have produced cortical statements on improved practices, new political states, etc. At the same time, the situation is described as amazing, unusual. That's right, it's an unusual situation at the Council. Money is now provided with almost one hand, since there is virtually no time to settle down. We have not seen any new tactics, nor have we seen this new political bitch that the government has proclaimed. Still, everything that comes from the opposition is simply canceled, rejected, thrown into the ocean. There were no suggestions or changes or ideas of the management body at the time of the committee. All of this is a sign that you should just keep going. There's nothing to change. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came in on one case today, an example of nothing that has changed. There's trouble at the top. The Honorable Minister of Justice. Minister of Justice is in trouble being sentenced by the Supreme Court. What will the Minister of Justice do then? He just keeps sitting. What do other government groups do? Of course, you can't hear anything from being progressive. They'll crawl into the hole. What does a VG who's been standing here talking to members of the council and the Senate about a new business, a new political bitch? VG says: "Oh, boy. We need to learn from this. Learn. How long do we need to learn to respect what comes from the courts of the land? Of course, the minister of justice is to accept responsibility in this matter. That must be a requirement for all of us. But we must also make demands to the classes like the left greens who have taken this chair here, I'm not saying hostage but have been standing in it for hours and talking about how much now politics must be drawn to the courts, well, because of the country or something else. What have VG representatives often stood here and said: There is a need for new tactics? There's no sound from council members left-green on this trouble with the Minister of Justice. Not a mouse. [[The president calls.]] The only left - green senator who has spoken is the highest. Prime Minister, who will learn from this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the equation and get involved in a government contract. It says, by permission of the president: Since the collapse of the economy, there have been many successes but still lacks the social reconciliation that the nation has long called for. She has work to do. At the same time, rapid social change and a changed view of society is needed in many areas but also inequities. This morning the newspaper headlined an article on the collection of wealth on page 12 with the permission of a president: ▪ The collection of the rich increased fourfold from year to year. In the same paper written by Þorbjörn Þórðarson, he begins with the words: ▪ When millions of free markets start to warn of growing inequities in the Western world, this suggests that something is wrong. And ends with the words: In the next year's financial bill, capital taxes are expected to increase from 20 to 22 percent. The tax stock continues to be revised, but the goal is to justify the tax system, regardless of its origin. This is a positive step, and it is important that we learn from past mistakes that included discrepancies between taxation and pay. The tax system should not be designed to promote inequities. I think we can see a context when we take the Constitution and what is referred to in the News News magazine today. It's at the top of the program. Governments, a more dignified president, consider the efficiency of businesses at the same time, and they tend to equalize the rest, to promote inequities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u15	Mr. President. The absurd theater is a form of art that describes the absurdity of human existence. The characters speak in crosses and in clichés, say one thing, and do another. The vote here just before Christmas, in connection with the budget bill, reminded me of this theater. Let me explain. Smokeytown announced a meeting just before the election with the councils of the South-City and others, where the town produced a report showing that the area would have relatively lower financial resources for public institutions than the comparable institutions in the country. They were conditioned and said that injustice must be corrected immediately. As we stand here, the budget was moved by a change in budget to correct the injustice of Southnes and to provide additional funds for the South American Institute of Health to 90 million, and the Southnes police officer to 70 million. Most recently, members of the council lived on the South Sides, hombre. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason, said no to my new proposal. Southern Parliamenters who refused to pay extra expenses to Southnes must stand before their voters and explain why.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u16	V.E.G. President. An important factor in the policy of the Central Party is the development of industrial and technical education. It is a matter that most people agree on, but for some reason it has been overlooked for far too long. Changing viewpoints must take place from the Lawgiver to those who are faced with the choice of a way to the future. When young people, usually in collaboration with their parents or their guardians, speclers on study routes, are more often than not selected, probably because they are put higher in power by the authorities. There is a shortage of industrialised workers in a labour market all over the country. Therefore, it is important to encourage young ones to take in valuable knowledge through a variety of trade studies. The process of bridgeing the gap between formal education and university studies increases the possibility of future education and is well within reach. But in order to increase the interest of young people in industrial and technical education, it is first necessary to increase the money needed for the courses of study, capital, especially for earmarked industrial and technical education, but not to get into some overall pot that seems to have been the case in recent years. There is no change in this in the current budget bill, although the government covenant says, by permission of a president: In addition to training and training, there will be further growth in the interests of diversity and intensive society. However, it is not apparent that the government is interested in giving special attention to industrial and technical education relative to the current budget. In a world of rapid changes, it is clear that a small society will need very industrial and technologically educated people in the future. The best way is to prepare society for rapid changes in the coming decades, i.e. strengthening study to make it attractive for young people today. The most important effort in industrial and technical studies will be to return to society several times. [[The president calls.]] So there's nothing to wait for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u17	A respectable president. The talk I've chosen to bring here, and now it will never be too often. The fact is, today we're at the top of the pace. Today, much of the country's population has it really good and gets to enjoy what we're reaping through the development of tourists' resources and other things that have made the economy a reality we face. But that does not change the fact that this prosperity does not reach everyone. That is why a group of people came into existence, so this woman stands right here and now. It is still quite clear that about 10% of our children are missing. According to a report by UNICEF in Iceland published in January 2016, there are 9.1% of children with social and material deficiency. This does not change the fact that these children have families, there are thousands of Icelanders who live in poverty, poverty that is taxed. If there's something national concern, if there's anything I can be ashamed of when I say I'm an Icelander, it's that I have to add this: and you know what, we can't survive in all the prosperity except taxing poor people. That's how we survive. That's why I've chosen to ask you to the highest level. Secretary of finance. That's now, when we're going to vote in 3rd. a budget that was making light speed through the council, which might be a chance to change things for the better. Sadly, though, that does not seem to be a great willingness to do so. For example, there are some things you can do that do not cost you a dollar, the highest. Secretary of finance, but who would return in great increase and improvement in the interests of the citizens of the country. You can, for example, do so. They include the facility within the index and, with its massive funding transports, the payload of tens of billions of dollars a year. What would a fund of government lose on taking this mortgage away and at the same time bring those billions back to families who are falling from their insurance loans? Nothing. It is, however, the capital institutions, the capital owners who would lose something. Now I'm going to kick my big glasses so I can see the questions and handle them right. First, I would like to ask, " Telvur. Secretary of finance to show the financial bill in an adequate way that the highest will be required. Governments to stamp out the poverty of children in Iceland, and how? Yes, a big question is asked, but I hope you answer me now, my chief. Secretary of finance, for I have often found the answers sort of days upstairs and do not become anything. After asking about something, I'm left with even more questions, and I've never really heard any answer. Second, it's the highest. A minister will be satisfied with the poverty enjoyed by nearly 10% of Icelandic children? If not, what will the minister do to help them? In fact, this is the first part of what I'm talking about here because it turns out that the annual program is going to raise the progress of reformers or that it would be more true to a carer of social security by 4.7%. Once more, the 69th grader is being violated. Act on social security, where it's in 1st. is unmistakably stated that general pay development is being done in the country. However, if this trend is reduced, 2 mg is observed. Sixty-niner. However, the improvement or assessment should be made according to the index price of consumption. In this case, it is quite clear that there has been a far beyond what is stated in 2 mg. Sixty-niner. and has been used here in general when these alms are being thrown into people who are falling under the load, hardly looking to the next day with concern. These are people who also have children, the highest. Secretary of finance, to be taken care of. We're talking about thousands of Icelanders, and let's not forget that. It is our duty here, 63, to stand with the people who bring us here and work for them with dignity and dignity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u18	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to participate in the discussion on this important subject. I'm going to start by saying yes that I believe that the budget bill shows that we have a clear desire to cope with poverty in Iceland. An example of this is the emphasis on what we find in the budget bill to add financial resources to our welfare issues. We are, for example. to add about 13% into the Department of Health from the budgets of this year, which is now running its course. There are, of course, other things that could be drawn up. In the Treaty, we talk about our plans to make an assessment of the most desirable income groups in Icelandic society, to offer suggestions for improvement, and to follow them during the election season. Especially do you need to consider that the status of the children involved in a special talk, but as we know, they are one of the most sensitive groups in society. The question is, Is the minister comfortable with the poverty of less than 10% of Icelandic children? I must begin by saying that I have a warning against the claim that is in this question, i.e. as many as 10% of Icelandic children live under poverty. I don't think that describes the reality I see in Icelandic society. But it is absolutely accurate and very important to keep it in proper place that there are too many children living in homes where we are talking about a significant material deficiency. The terms perfunctory are based on so - called revenue criteria, where we look at average income and then we see how many have 60% or less of the medium income. So that's where we're talking about proportionate positions to other groups. It is too extreme to say that those who join that group with others live under circumstances that could be described as poverty. I just think that's way too far. On the other hand, if we consider how many people fill the group of people who have significant material possessions, we have 2015 figures that contain about 2.1% of children in Iceland. This is a ratio that would be found very low on all European standards. I guess we're in the fourth place in the OECD states, but still a real subject that's supposed to be our reason for taking a regular discussion of how we manage to lift up with those in this situation. I'm going to say in general about those who have little between their hands. What we as a community can do to support these groups and make sure they all - all Icelanders - are allowed to enjoy equal opportunities here is to run a powerful educational system where access to education is completely independent of the economy. That we have access to all health care services is essential to better contact with these groups. Then, of course, we need to consider other general factors, such as. Just creating a job, and here is a valuable creation. The valuables that we have achieved in recent years have provided a guarantee of changes to groups such as old - age pensioners through the social security system so that a pensioner who lives alone has no other income gained in 2009 of 180 pennies. K. in a month, but it's going to be 280 yous this year. K. per month. The same thing is left alone, with no income, where we see the exact same change from 180 levels. K. in 2009, up to 280 of you. K. This year. This, of course, is an enormous change. But better, if it's enough. I just want to be happy to have received a powerful spokesman like the one who has opened up this discussion to hold governments on the subject and bring in the experience and knowledge that we have. A senator is a member of this suit. But I call for us to use the numbers based on research. We are talking about about 2% of children living in Iceland in families where there is a serious lack of material advantages. Since then, with regard to the social security system, we've certainly been adding so much of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u19	Mr. President. How would the most valuable creation come to be? Secretary of finance spoke of exchanges? Since 1980, the richest 1% of the world has taken to heart 28% of all its valuables. The same trend, though not so extreme, is also in Iceland. The economist of ASI and the findings of Stefán, son of Ólafsson, have shown that since the turn of the century, taxation has shifted from the richest people to people with low and intermediate income. How should the clear will be expressed? A minister speaks of being in the government covenant to address this inequities? In new budget, there are elderly, desperate, young children and 6,000 children in Iceland completely left behind in unprecedented economic growth. The government will not use the tax system to match the country's terms, and the result is simple: Increasing inequities. There is no need to sharpen the pace of the tax system, not to add a wealth tax, it is not declared more reasonable to resources, and it is presented with capital taxes in that it is suggested that capital owners could even protect themselves against inflation, something ordinary employees cannot. Next year's budget, after a quarter of a billion dollars. who could have won the fight against poverty. The Treaty also speaks of further post-treatment during the season, a decrease in the lower level of income tax, which will provide three times higher per month than the minimum wage rate. No, we need to improve the benefits of these people. There's plenty of money. I'm asking, Mr. President, isn't this government headed by a socialist list?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u20	Mr. President. We are discussing poverty in Iceland, and that discussion is good and should be here regularly. Poverty is in Iceland, that's a fact. Despite the increase in material benefits in the land, the decline has been increasing and continues to increase. At that time, wealth builds up more and more. This is a reality that we need to deal with, no matter where we stand, and face it. It is not acceptable that more than 6,000 children in Iceland live in economic deficiency, whether for food, clothing, or shelter. This is reality. 1,600 children have severe deficiency, 1,600 children too much. This is reality. It is not enough to talk about this madness and regularity if the actions do not follow. In 2009, we set up here at Strategies Watch. It was reorganized in the time of the Eygló Harðardóttir, then social minister, and is still at work. After the welfare shift, there is a good report on proposals and analysis. We don't need much more analysis, all of it's ahead. We need to work for the report and proposal to make changes in the quality of our welfare department. Therefore, this government, which I am a sponsor, must show in action, although not managed by these funds to do enough for the poorest people in the country, during this ideal period that she puts poor people first in our good country where the economy is the good thing that poverty should not be tolerated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u21	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about poverty. This is where the highest call came from. Secretary of finance after a few numbers I've heard lately being pretty serious. For the Free Dyspnoea Committee of Reykjavík, which consists of food for the past two months, Tuesday and Wednesday each week, approximately Two hundred and twenty-five thousand people each time. Christmas was distributed with food and gifts to 800 individuals. There are some who have families, very many who are coming, and/or who have experienced temporary difficulties. I'd like to state that these are numbers and these are facts that are relevant to this discussion. I'd like to thank you very much for having a part here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand for taking up this case at the Council and as much as the U.S.A. Financial and economic ministers for giving an answer. It's very important and very good to take this discussion here. I'd like to say that there's absolutely no question that government policy is increasing the equation in Icelandic society. It is also the process of dealing with poverty and especially the status of children in this context. Into this came the highest. The minister of finance in his speech and other members of Congress has done so. I'd like to call for cooperation against parties when it comes to this. It is very important that we examine this completely. It is clear that much has been suggested in these areas but also that large measures such as these will not be proposed and completed in ten days, which was the period since the government took over until a financial bill was ready. I think it needs to be split up. On the one hand, and there's a fact that my ministry will initiate that work at the beginning of the year, in the matter of poverty, and at the highest. The financial minister introduced the situation of the groups remembered in Icelandic society for what action will be taken. It needs to take a look at these factors. the status of micro-organization candidates, the growth reform system, the children's relief system, and other factors. It will be prepared and proposed, as the secretary of finance was introduced. Then there is the situation of children in general, which I think is far more extensive and larger questions that we need to ask ourselves there. Work is to be done on the contrary. They're interconnected to form the Ministry of Education, Health, Company, and other members. It involves not just the status of poor children but the condition of children who suffer from social difficulties because of poverty. This is brought into the Treaty of the current government. Both of these projects are in preparation and will be followed immediately at the beginning of the new year. [[The president calls.]] I expect the following suggestions to be given to the Generals, both in the form of the budget and in other ways. I thank you for this discussion, and I expect support from this and the cooperation of the question. paritaprevir Inga Sæland as well as other senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u23	President. Poor is the work of men. Poverty is the result of the decision taken here in this house, the decisions that maintain systemic poverty. Low improvements maintain poverty. A crown against a crown's impairment maintains poverty. Underdeveloped education systems maintain poverty. House - to - house - to - house - to - house - will - be a means of poverty. The need for wealth and possessions in the hands of few preserve poverty. That people do not have access to wholesome food, a roof over their heads, and appropriate clothing maintains poverty. That people do not have the freedom to determine their future regardless of their economic situation maintains poverty. Ideas preserve poverty, ideologies that worship competition, and cultivate it as a manifestation of human interaction, the ideologies that resuppose the people of the land as consumers and democracys as trade and sale of goods, the ideologies in which the market is sacred, and the benefits are defined only in crowns and pennies. According to the above - mentioned ideologies, attempts to limit the competition of harmful freedom are limited. Tax and regulations must be kept low, public service must be private, inequity is virtue, a prize for efficiency which brings great wealth to the top, which then spills and enriches society all. Efforts to create equal society are not merely inhibitory goals of this ideologies but directly in opposition to what has become virtually religion and thus morally wrong. The market is to make sure that everyone gets what they deserve. The rich convince themselves that they have gained their money because of their worth and that they ignore the opportunities they had ahead of others, such as education, the economics, and the ability to care for their parents. Poor people begin to blame themselves for their mistakes, despite having little control over their circumstances and little chance of pursuing the needed opportunities to improve their lives. Poverty is a characteristic of harmful ideologies. We will not eliminate poverty without identifying and exerting an underlying disease. Poverty is not the shame of the person who lives on it, it is the shame of society and political people who uphold it. It is our responsibility and responsibility to revise our community with a critical and open mind. Now there's a time for new ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u24	Mr. President. Thank you for your important discussion. It is true that in spite of all things, we have made good progress in reducing poverty. This does not reduce the importance of continuing to do well in this category. There are two things I would like to mention in particular that I think are extremely important in these matters. On one hand, the equation is the role of the tax system. I think it's necessary to say that the greatest weakness of this budget bill lies before the council as well as the budget bill of the last government. It has been systematically undermined by important support systems such as the growth and child reform systems. Despite plans to rethink such systems, this year or the next year will not change the situation. It is not then until at first, in 2019 C.E., that we see the effect of that change. Of course, it reflects the priorities of a government government that reaches ten days to inject 20 billion into this same budget but does nothing to work on this major weakness that is involved in the balance of the tax system and, in particular, trying to restore, even if only part of the growth and child - rearing process. Second, it is important that we look to the rest of the tax system for a review. How much tax burden has become on the busiest groups in society! That is where the cost of the present personality reaction is very heavy. This system must be revised with the aim of reducing the tax burden. This can help very large groups of people, whether viewed as microattainers, pensioners, or those with the lowest income in a labour market. It is no longer a discussion of the right or left political bitch, it is simply a very important part of social stability. Then there's something else that will not be considered in short, but it's important to reevaluate the biofuel system to enhance efficacy, to participate, and that those who are in disability benefit from involvement in society, in the business. [[The president calls.]] This is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u25	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate in this sermon that there's been a big mistake in making budgets. The mistake is that a commish went to the wrong place. The increase to older citizens and disability was to be 47% and years, at a minimum. And what would that mean if it had been so? Yes, it would mean that most of these people, 70% of them, would have about 260 you. K. paid if there was a 47% rise. Instead, people get the rights of about 200 of you. K. paid. If we put it in perspective with what most people get for this year, it's 6,700 bucks. It's a disaster for all of us. At the same time, we always disagree, we create discrimination systems, systems that discriminate against people. Why can we, for example, be able to do so? Don't you pay everybody the same Christmas bonus? How is it that there is also a need for discrimination? Senators get 180 points. K. Some people get nothing. What, then, is used to punish people with a Christmas bonus? The Pension Funds, they use it to cut people down to 0. It's also done with the orc. We're creating a criminal system. I don't understand how a financial minister can come up here, who has personally received a 44% raise from the board, and said to the people who are the worst in this society: we're doing a lot of work for you, you get 4.7%. This can't be right, it must have been 47% and again. Then there's another, and it's the ugly word that's been used in the conference room once since I came in here: the power load. It is the right of people, the legal rights of people who are to receive money from pensions, and hence it is never a burden. You're right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u26	A respectable president. First, thank you for this very important discussion of poverty and discrimination in Iceland. Despite the good standing of Iceland in many places compared to the poor of children and families, no one lives on that comparison. We are not living on poles or websites. Therefore, the most important function of all of us is to ensure balance, the same opportunity for all, that state and rural society, as well as the Ministry, ensures the equal capacity for learning and sports, ensures all social facilities and access to health care. I also remind you that various minorities have fought for their march, such as. deaf people. Since 2013, I have regularly been reminded that deaf children in this country do not have the same opportunity to study as such. blind children, so I don't talk about people who see and hear. Despite many meetings with the families of these individuals, our prayers have not been answered. We must not allow discrimination between children, the poor, the disabled, or whatever our social goals may be. I'm against all discrimination, no matter what it shows up. I also wondered if we all, dear friends here in this hall, will not also look at ourselves and think, " What do we do not to discriminate?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland for taking the initiative in this need of discussion. We are never to accept poverty. She's a pain in the ass. And we must never get used to it. Rather, we should use every means possible to root it out. It is a cognizant of a ide attributed to the term "freeness of mind. " As clearly indicated in the new book of Stefán, son of Ólafsson and the Arnaldur of Sölvi, the son of Kristjánsson, in Iceland, was in charge of this policy in the country since the beginning of the 1990's and until the collapse of a great division. This course, the New Freedomism, is inevitable and always falling apart. Poverty is a political decision. It depends on governments every time it is so widespread. It is a political decision to arrange for rich societies to be owned by rich people to be able to buy largely on homes to then rent poor people on a mine - up price instead of making large donations for social housing. It is a political decision to replace growth and child - rearing. The government has now suggested that all people under the minimum amount of money receive unscrupulous child benefits. This will cost about 1.8 billion dollars. The government has a plan to negotiate this minimum fairness, child support, in future collective agreements, expected as a change to hold pay. There is no need to have many words about righteousness in that arrangement. It's very simple, it's simply our political decision here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for bringing up this discussion. It sounds to me that we agree somewhat with each other in this council hall. I'm going to say yes. Sæland It's a national tragedy that there's poverty in Iceland. I'm not going to get stuck in the way that many people live in poverty, whether it's that percent or the other. I think it's a national tragedy that someone has to live in poverty. I don't think that poverty has gone with us longer than our newfoundism. For far too long, a part of the nation has lived in poverty, but we have the conditions here to change that condition and to prevent people from living in poverty because we live in a rich society. If the quality is properly divided, no one will have to live in poverty. I'd like to face the challenge. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land to all of us, whether in government or in government, that we show humility toward the project no matter where we are, we do not attach ourselves to the preconceived credits, that we do not attach ourselves to any ideologies, we may not necessarily stick to our political parties, but take our hands together to work out the task of simply eliminating poverty in Iceland. I agree that it can be done. It is possible if the will is there, if we approach the project with sufficient humility, then it can be done. It's to be on the responsibility of all of us. This does not mean that I don't shrink back from being a member of the board of directors, because it is our primary responsibility there. I hope we have the wisdom to work together on this matter, and we don't need to be discussing it over and over again. I agree with what. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island, Marcus, that we look to them for measures that already exist, such as those at the Strategies Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u29	V.E.G. President. I find it interesting to hear the executives speaking here, let me say, out and south. V.E.G. A financial minister says that the law reflects not helping the poor while they are in need. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir didn't say the budget did it. Then came the highest. Minister of Social Affairs on the outside by requesting cooperation with government opposition. I think this discussion is something special. I just hope she doesn't fall into the forgotten coma and thank you for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for setting up this matter. Poor children are completely unpleasant. As a community, we have largely invested in the welfare of our society so that the poverty of children is at least. On the other hand, one child who suffers a shortage is too much. The education system is one of the most important equations we have and has invested in it. The schools have been especially successful in caring for the status of poor children, and they deserve much credit for taking it as they have been doing. The government has been making significant contributions to education. The annual increase is about 6%. Why is the government putting this higher emphasis on academic matters? Yes, because education is an opportunity. Another factor that I want to name is the availability of leisure, sports, music, and other youthful activities. The vacation card is an equation device used to balance the availability of children to leisure activities. The unit control level deserves credit for bringing in the vacation card. This is important because involvement in sports and leisure activities has led to the preemptive value of children. In addition, research shows that there is a strong relationship between exercise and learning performance. So it is extremely important that we strengthen all our resources and access to leisure activities in children. The government continues to promote education, especially for the children of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u31	A respectable president. I think it's a basic question here that I don't quite like to see, i.e. whether or not poverty should occur. It is often referred to as much opportunity as possible, that people should have equal opportunities. But when we ask the question, Is poverty to pass over, regardless of opportunities, because there will always be people who don't take advantage of the opportunities that are there, for some reason, circumstances that the authorities cannot afford and that, better yet have, enough intervention in the lives of people to assume everything that may happen in the life of each person, or that people simply don't know the opportunities available? There is also, but it doesn't matter. If we say that poverty is not to pass away, it is not enough to say that everyone has equal opportunities. People who are not taking advantage of the opportunities that exist for some reason - poverty bites their children. And I think it's easier for us to say that children should never ever be in poverty. Surely we can agree on that. But that means that we need to focus on the group that cares for our children, parents, and guardians. That's exactly what's been told here several times, that it's a political decision. This cannot be corrected somehow by the laws of nature. It's not like that. We don't live in that kind of world. Some economic systems, and I want to deny all economy, assume poverty in some way, and the only way to eliminate poverty is to tax property and give it something else. That's the only way I know about it, is quite open to ideas, but it's that way. Then, in my opinion and what we should do, we will be on the alert to the suggestions that are likely to be carried out according to the highest standards. Minister said, is fixing the social security system, simplifying and fixing it. There are many problems in this, some very obvious problems, that all of us should be able to meet together to correct. We should allow microsurgents to work without punishing them. We are to stop punishing people for council members, such as living with others or having the courage to let their child reach 18 without throwing them away immediately. There are certainly ways to increase the opportunity of poor people, no doubt true, but the debilitating power of the power is poverty itself. [[The president calls.]] We are to fix it first so that people will be able to use whatever opportunities are offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u32	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I would like to, as I said at the outset, that they had been different and perhaps less talk about percentages and numbers. What has often been discussed in this discussion is that the average income and the average one and the average one. We're talking about poverty, not average wages, medium income, or average growth. We are talking about those who are far from reaching the point of average income. We'll see from the budget bill that we've started cutting down child support at $22,000. Now we can do something with our minds, there's a motion that has been proposed that this decline will not start until we at 300,000 k. Minimum improvement endpoint. I'm incredibly grateful to find that we at least Well, let's just say here, and it looks like it wants to stick together, whatever happens. I hope it's a faithful thing, that we can come together wherever we stand and agree that this is no time for poverty. There is another, we have a minimum moving point of about 400,000 without having a home inside. With the cost of housing, it is up to 400,000 dollars. We've never talked about anything but taking it moderately and talking about $300,000. Without taxes, without impairment, paid off. It is not enough to talk about a dramatic rise in progress when it means that there is a total increase of 280,000,300,000. and that tax will be taken away. After that, there's a total of $22,000 left. that's not enough. Finally, I thank all those who participated in this discussion and truly showed, at least by what we were talking about, that we agree to eliminate and do poverty together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u33	A respectable president. I just want to start by saying that regarding the implementation of the 69th floor. I believe it was legal in recent years. The Congress has made that decision year after year, so I don't know that it's being made up of the guarantees contained in the article in the wrong way. Here, both child reforms and reforms have been discussed, primarily about raising both. That's fine. In recent years, I have promoted my child - welfare benefits, but I have also increased the proportion of those with less income, increasing revenues, than increasing the benefits. This has increased the support of smaller ones. I believe, however, that the child - saving system is far from perfect and, in fact, not anything near it, no more than the growth system. The growth reform system provides what is best for those who can afford to take the big loans. Although there are property and income limits, we have still had examples of people far above average income in this country who take support from these support systems. If people want to take up the program for child - reforming and growth programs during a discussion of poverty, we need to reroute these systems from the roots, if they are to benefit primarily those who have the least mentioned among the hands. In terms of the housing situation, I must make it clear that in recent years, a significant improvement has been observed here in homes. We've had drastic measures to help with our homes. I could mention from a decrease in debt operations to a housing reform system that we've adopted and transferred to our social housing, the way the law has changed in that area, etc. Finally, this debate here today is a big part of the equation, and I'm sure it is in the discussion that over all internationally acceptable standards of the equation are in fact among the countries. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u34	A respectable president. It's a case I think most of the time you've been talking a lot about. This is, as shown in the bill, an extension of a preliminary situation because an appointed construction agent has not been able to obtain professional values. It seems quite simple and probably at first glance, and I think most senators have looked at it, but I cannot help but mention the comments of a company called Inspectionem. There were concerns and suggestions that I could not see have been discussed. I don't see it in the council records. I'm not in trouble. The Environment and Transport Committee itself, and in fact, we don't have a committee there, we have an audience officer, but it seems that these parties have not been invited to a meeting to discuss this or to speculate on other possibilities for the bill. It seems quite clear to me that this case is late, at least. this person's surprise. And then I hear stories that other members of the community have also got caught off guard, and it's affecting their business. I think it's important to keep this up. I think this case would have been different if we had had time to be careful. I think this case is another symptom of our being in a lot of panic and not having much time. We cannot fulfill the role that the public expects of the General Assembly, which is a careful method of working, make balanced, informed decisions in the light of facts and arguments so that we speak to the stakeholders, take their viewpoints into account, and try to make the best possible way for everyone. I think the lack of time makes it impossible for you to do enough research. I think quickly that the proposal from this requested company should work completely and be able to work. Then we would not have to put the interests of this company or others in a similar position. I thought it best to use the time to mention this because I feel like he's coming up over and over again, this high - paying lack of time, which is especially great now, but let's also think that this is an unnecessary theme at the General Assembly and that was also 20133/42016 when nothing was to be rushed. On the other hand, there was always a time pressure made out of one thing or another that made it impossible for us to do our job as the Allied Assembly in the way that the public rightly expect. I find it quite valid to mention it especially under these circumstances, especially when you see it clearly too late that it would have been better than left.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u35	Mr. President. Is there anything you can do to get a minister in the room? The bill, which is a director's bill, is developing good guidelines, which are shown in the manual on the Management Guide on the Opportunities Act. I'd like to have a little word with the Minister for consultation. Can the minister be called in for that? I can keep talking about it. The key point is that according to the board of directors, we should consult. There's talk of it here, but it doesn't seem to have been consulted with the companies who could take care of it. The perplexing views presented are that what the bill says must clearly be done, i.e. that there is a lengthy delay that people have to look for professional values and that it is still in the hands of the state that treats it as it is doing so that we can continue to operate on things. This has been broken for a long time. On the other hand, professional professionals, such as sent out a review of the matter, are not shut down to take care of it at the same time. There is a great need for good attention and a lack of bottle necks in the massive building phase to go to the housing market. What I'd like to ask the Minister in, since I put my eyes into this, is whether the parties who met these criteria in order to be legalized, were consulted by these people. They sent a review to the Generals. Were they consulted during the procedure when the Ministry was being dealt with? Can a minister be expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u36	V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister has been made aware that his presence was requested, but he is not in the house. I don't have any information on how long it takes to get the Minister for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u37	Okay. The general principle is that a minister is in the presence of a prime speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u38	President's not going to have a word with what. A senator while he's on a speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u39	Okay. It's a viewpoint that someone else might have a place to say to me. Perhaps the chairman of the case with the committee is aware of how this was performed on the committee. I'm not in it myself, but I must have studied the matter carefully that he could come to a speaker and answer for it. I'll see what it looks like with a storyteller. - I can't see it marked. Then it must be who -- He's coming, yes. [[Foreground on, he's coming.]] Okay. Was a what? A senator is aware of what I was asking about this business that came from private sources and what the Ministry's procedure was about principles of government launching, about looking for advice? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u40	A respectable president. To answer such questions as I am able to answer them as well as I do. A senator asks the committee that these views had been examined in the Ministry, but the way that was decided to go is, in fact, implemented to the companies who perform this service, including the What you mentioned earlier, the original army is comparable, Ephra, Ellis, and others, who have carried out these projects for the construction agents in many lands, especially in the country. If I get it right, there won't be a disturbance in their ability to continue their work. For itself, this matter has not won faster than it did in the Civilian Institute. The results of the Commission following the appearance of the Ministry had to be addressed in this way. Thus, the scope of all those who have served this service would be guaranteed until all the requirements of the rules have been met, and professional values will then be granted on the basis of the rules set. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u41	A respectable president. The bill contains interesting lyrics that I only want to add to the budget. A reference work by the European Union says that extending this warrant to the surface of a flood fund can meet the cost of danger assessment by volcanic eruptions, floods, and floodwaters, in effect, detract from the capacity to participate in and finance the traditional projects that the fund is supposed to perform. Since food and effect are mentioned in the bill, it is said that the bill will not have a financial impact on the state's budget, while the values listed are all in advance - some 50 million, 40 million, and 20 million will be affected by the floodwaters, etc. - that annual funds from a treasure store are kept. In other words, it should be kept in mind that if financial resources are not increased, this will lead to the ability of the fund to strengthen the defense against the surfaces of the local community's roads to be less than that of this amount. In effect, this is an antiquated system of things for these projects. On page 18. This section, 17.4 Defense Against Nature, is discussed by the 305 budget bill, and the current work for the next budget year is said to be two in the West Side, one in the United States, one in the United States and one in the Far East, although several projects, and it is also said that the overall budget is reduced by 6.3 million from the current budget for the practical management requirement. I find it interesting that in the law it speaks of a group of defenses against nature as well as the making of danger eruptions, floods, and avalanches, and as part of the media. The budget is made for 2018, but the laws that this bill should change should run out at the end of this year, 2017. That is why they are being extended, but this bill is assumed to go through, which is quite worthwhile, but it affects the budget's capacity to live up to its commitments. We have not really received enough clear answers, not even a statement from a treasure, about how or how he can handle the work he is given under the laws of the law. We don't know. We haven't had time to look at it. When I put together how it stands on the bill and on the budget, there is no explanation that this will eventually depend on the project that will delay the expected implementation of all the tasks to take into account that are said to be here between nine and ten persons until 2022. In the coming years, we may be able to spit on something, but we are talking about budgets for next year. Because we're still working on them, you might think you can better appreciate how it works together. I just want to make a comment on the fact that the 2018 budget is expected to be extended to 2022. They may not in themselves, but most likely a project is to do so, and at the same time the bill calls for funding enough to care for tasks that are not being done in the budget. Here's an interesting interaction, and I think that the council and people outside should, to the future, know what happens to this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u42	Mr. President. I'm not gonna come in or answer it. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I suppose that's what. The head of the Committee will, Bergþór Ólason. I'm just going to talk about what I've mentioned here in the past, following this matter of a treasure that is, to say, a disaster fund that has been given a lot of work to prepare. I view the existing bill as very important and need as a preliminary solution to ensure that the threat assessment of nature will take place for the time it takes to set up a disaster fund and remind me that the committees viewed as presented here were collaborated. Environmental and Transport Committee. A disaster fund is an enormously important and, in fact, an improvement in the arrangement that has been so far, it is very important that we give it a walk. I understood from visitors who came to the committee in relation to the payment of this case that there was a fixed stumbling block or misunderstanding because of the possible funding of a disaster fund and that the work was now being done there in the committee to prepare legislation in this regard that it was being viewed by various aspects of the funding of this fund. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to keep an eye on how this angers. Besides, I would speak to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister, and encourage him to complete this assessment as soon as possible, provide a bill on the first opportunity, and then encourage the whole body to help resolve it in a positive way when it comes to it. As I say, there's a lot under Iceland when it comes to nature, I don't need a tenth eruption, an earthquake or a storm, a wave or anything, and so it's urgent that we're living up to it so that there's a really powerful coordinated fund here that takes all of this at once. The work of a treasure that is creating defenses against avalanches, muds, and so forth must be fulfilled naturally. Whatever. paritaprevir Here is the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I refer to the Chairman or to others on the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u43	A respectable president. I'm not going to keep this very far, but as an environmental and transport committee member, I wanted to draw attention to the Commission's opinion that highlights the importance of making money for new dangers because of volcanic eruptions, floodwaters, and sea tides. A reminder that a person's condition has been precisely constant in recent years because of earthquakes. I think it is extremely important to ensure money contributions to make the danger assessment constant and to be active, but at the same time, I wanted to draw attention to what is presented in the Committee and to support the discussion and discussion of this matter that has to do with the legal activities of a flood fund and funding on it. Because of what? Gunnarsson This is why I believe that it is extremely important for us to obey, and to read well the comments of the European Union's member when it comes to this legal project, and to lie down as one of their sources of trust. We, in particular, know that there are many important projects to be started, but at the same time we need to ensure that there are no funds available to deal with the legal projects of the fund but to ensure continued funding for the legal projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u44	A respectable president. Thanks for reminding me of the commission, I was going to take it with me in my talk, but I forgot to bring it in. When I examined the review and the opinion of the committee, I came to realize that the decrease in the surface treasure followed by the collapse that has not yet been added so that we are still in this process in which various teams are here and there are in the crisis situation, as shown by high school and political contributions, no, not anymore, and, for example, by political parties. This. [[Up front.]] I just wanted to ask: Isn't it really the right thing for me to understand that the reduced funds to the surface are still due to the collapse requirement and that we have not been corrected in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u45	A respectable president. Yes, I do. I have the same understanding of it as it is of what it is. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear that the budget for a treasure has been replaced from the 2010 conservative requirement. I think it would be very sobering for us at the General Assembly to consider, especially some members of a financial committee, whether this would have to be done so that the funds may be sufficient to enter the legal work that the fund truly has to do and must do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Leví Björn for the questions and try to answer them as director of the Environment and Transport Committee If I understand the senator's concerns, they are only properly subject to the fact that there will be problems in the future with the legal obligation that lies on him. - Right, then I got it right. I don't have the total number on rhythms, but since collapse, it's about the budget, where the outlet side has been much easier than the income side. The sources discussed here are 110 million, so these are not very high numbers. However, as mentioned in the committee, there is good reason to frame such research in particular that it has its own independent financing. This will likely be linked to work in order to form the disaster fund. paritaprevir Ari Trausti spoke earlier. I don't think there's any reason to worry about it in the predictable future... about the project of the fund that is being taken out of hand near the fund's own money. On the other hand, it's much more about the budgets, and we deal with them each year. For instance, there have been no wishes, that I best know, of the increased budgets for projects that are now being given funding so that I don't think there is any reason to worry deeply in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u47	President. I promise I'll keep this brief. I just wanted to thank my colleagues for the landing of this suit, to make sure that another 70 million people in MPA. This amount is crucial for essential increases in NAPA agreements as well as for ensuring life-alving persons in vital functions. The next step is to legalise all the laws of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people in Icelandic law, as we are obliged to do. We have started this work with the two pioneers about community service and those who are disabled with a great need for support where NPA will be legalized. It's a job that needs to be done as soon as possible. I welcome the solidarity that has developed in this matter and look forward to continuing to win it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-10.u48	A respectable president. I'm next inclined to sit by this matter because we've had to work it out in panic. I vote by it because I think it's the right decision to make under the circumstances, but I also regret that these circumstances exist and hope that we will not come back in this future.
