ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u1	A respectable president. The truth can be difficult. That is often the case, but we must face it rather than sweep the truth under the rug. Here before the weekend, a greater part of the General and Education Committee used the Powers to take a bill for a business with alcohol and tobacco from the Committee, although it was not a compromise on the comments of a health committee, a legal committee, or the Economic Institute that we had requested on the Committee. The majority of the committee's blind flights may be about sweeping under the blanket of truth, the critical voices that point to a negative impact on human health, pointing out the impact on government culture, and pointing to a negative national benefit from opening up alcohol trades. It is disturbing, Madam President, that cases are taken off the committee without being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u2	A respectable president. I come up here to make serious comments on the practices of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. This is simply a preemptive process that most of it has shown. Prior to the weekend, alcohol bill was simply torn out of a universal and educational committee after even the movers themselves had given the case a drop. A short time before a meeting, the committees received a new proposal. We had no time to learn what the move was. This was not our wish to get reviews from a welfare committee or a financial committee, but we know that the committees have been preparing envelopes. We also did not have a written answer from the President himself on whether it would be possible to grant our request that the Economic Institute oversee national interest and community impact from the bill. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate what I said, it's simply a preemptive procedure. This is where most of the pieces have shown their true face. It's overpowering. It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... That's it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u3	V.E.G. President. I can't help coming here and saying what I want to say. senators who have spoken. It's very serious that more of the General and Education Committee broke the matter out of the commission without having a review. The General welfare Committee. This is a place where truth is being swept under the table. Hv. Prominents of this proposal do not listen to the facts presented by important organizations and positions of society. These include the office of surgeons and other bodies who have pointed to statistics that can have a national and social impact on our society. I wish this bill would return to the Committee and return to the review process. The bill has been greatly modified. We need to know what these stakeholders and officials have changed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u4	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with my associates and severely criticize this practice, the treatment of a so - called alcohol bill at the council. It cannot be said that there are extensive changes in the language and that the table is not called back to the discussion. It's completely premise, and it doesn't make sense to the highest level. Generalis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u5	A respectable president. It's getting a little tired at a theme, having to come up here on a regular basis to discuss the work of the greater part, this new administrative part that proclaimed new and changed the practice completely, but then put his work out a few times. [[Foreground on President's Conference Board.]] V.E.G. A president can be damaged by that. It may be the kind of work he knows. But these are not the practices that were offered. It's totally absurd to change as much controversial as it really is - it's really just a new case - and then use the power to rip it out of the committee, to oppose everyone, and not even have time to wait for the reviews of the major objects himself and the committee sent out. What kind of work are these? I think the highest. Perhaps the prime minister would be closer to showing a little humility, and he might ask himself, " How is my work to the highest degree? ' Governments and the government are criticized so many times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u6	Madam President. I don't think this is a good job. I'm involved in this case as a member of the welfare committee. We were asked a review to the General and Education Committee. Well, I guess. It may have been originally meant to be a welfare committee. Anyway. However, we had spent some time on this matter, getting quite a few guests for the committee. Then, like others, our financial plans were reviewed, and we have no news of the story, no requests to speed up our reviews, or to have any payment on them or in such cases. These are totally disturbing relations between members of the Parliament, absolutely out of the question. Added to that, the matter is completely changed, which, of course, should have called for a new discussion. So you can't measure a comb. Everyone must see the look on that. I have to say, it's not about this booze-in-the-house business to go, on top of the lost cause, that the idealists are going to be impressed with this kind of work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u7	Madam President. It may not be surprising that the government and its members show their true face. It has to be held in place that there's not so much to change. It's still for the government's alcohol and tobacco trade. The distribution and profits are to be sold to capital owners. It's just going around the back, finding a way to go, and dusting people's eyes that there's some kind of softer way out here. Who will be the building of the appointed places here? Of course, it will be those who are the largest and who have settled down already and are waiting to sell booze. That's for sure. The president did not say so long ago that cases that would be taken care of by a committee after a certain period of time would not be available on the council program. I sure do trust that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u8	Madam President. I realize that the role of the committees is to deal with bills and make changes. Yet, it is amazing when things change, so that they become something completely new and would have been much more intelligent to reexamine so that they had their three discussions at the council. It's similar to if a senator sent me to a bookstore to buy a Stapler, and I brought back a concrete engine. I suggest that if you don't mind, you just add a new case to the fall. [[The point is, it'd be a believer to do that.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u9	V.E.G. President. I don't belong on a General Education Committee, and I didn't pay any attention to the discussions there. However, what seems to me to have happened, and this strong response is that the majority of the committee have taken into account the main comments made on this bill. For weeks, the bill was criticized during the council for the fact that it would be unworked to shop in public stores. The adjustments here on the table assume that alcohol will not be sold at special stores either. In other words, the major scandal mentioned here involves the taking into account the main comments that have been made with the bill that are involved in the shipping process and the majority of the public and educational committees. Of course, there is a bit of difficulty if you cannot respond to comments made in the treatment of a matter in the council that are different from that of violence and scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to address the change in the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, i.e. The tugboat bill. Now we're talking about a bill that's supposed to be a law without it ever going through a narrative, because an environmental and transport committee handled it six days after it came in the year 1. It's below all the caves. In fact, I feel that the committee has succeeded in performing dark acts in May. That's a good result.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u11	Madam President. It is surprising that this government will make the drinking business its priority in our council. No one needs to tell me that the majority of the committee did this without the will of a minister, that this is their will that the booze should now be put into the hands of private people with all their means. And put it this way, changing the way, in an effort to pour some syrup into it, as some ministers or vagrants do. Councilmen talk about, they're amazing. It's like people can't see through this nonsense. It's just getting this into the hands of a private, big parties like Hagah and others, which the government seems to burn for serving. It's just not acceptable. 70% of the population is opposed to this. All public health issues counter, surgeon general, World Health Organization. But the matter should continue to be crammed with butter and potatoes into the people of the land, no matter what it may be. [[The president calls.]] That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u12	A respectable president. I got tired of reminding you that this government has a smaller part of the vote behind him. This is about the fact that here is a very controversial bill, which then makes a big change, so much in fact, that all the reviews that came about the past are, in fact, a lot more, you need to get new comments on a new bill. This reminds me a little bit of a psychological rhythm called the 'door-in-the- surface, the door in the face. Although that may not be the purpose of those who present the case, it produces a specific psychological response, and you automatically feel that the changes are better because they are a step back. We have to take time, get a new perspective on the subject, new comments, then move on, it's not complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u13	President. I suppose the President isn't very happy that we need to go into discussing the President's conference management because this is taking a case and changing to the point where it needs to be called by new references, that's so simple. Then I want to come up with a solution that I know both me and the highest. The prime minister agrees that the situation needs to be addressed and that it would be resolved. The solution is to accept a law-change so that a matter exists between councilmen. I challenge this finely alleged more part at the Council to allow it to continue a case so that we can complete it before the end of the council, so that the case will live between the council and the case of this long, long list from the government will live on and continue in the necessary narrative. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u14	A respectable president. It would be very good if the president could respond to the comments that have been made regarding the fact that other committees were starting to work, were starting to receive visitors, even under the influence of reviews from both parts and smaller parts, but they could not be delivered to us. I would also like to have received an explanation from the Presidency Committee and President himself as to why it could not be granted our request for a report from the Economic Institute for an assessment of the national impact of these changes. At any rate, I had seen in the financial committee that they were very large and that they were virtually nothing in the bill's report on the change. I'd also like to finally remember at least The new categories on which the government is on - I don't know if it's any good to discuss the topic of conversation with the Independence Party, but on the other hand, I'd like to remind the new groups that they were advising the votes of the party that they wanted to contribute to good governance with emphasis on transparency and moral good morals. [[The president calls.]] A bright future said that good things would be better if more people came to them, that the opinions, knowledge, and knowledge of people with all kinds of background and education are treasure and that information is gold. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does anyone remember that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u15	V.E.G. President. It is now that the majority of the global and educational committees have not taken all accounts into account. paritaprevir A BirgirÁrmannsson young man argues, for there was a why. The welfare committee asked for a review of the matter. As noted here, visitors were invited to the Commission for the case, but afterward it has not been emphasized to complete this review from the question. The welfare committee. The smaller part of it. The welfare committee has requested reviews from these stakeholders on changing matters. I want to thank you for your control. It's what the welfare committee's going to do. I think more of the General and Education Committee should retract the matter to the Committee while we wait for these stakeholders to present what they have on the matter to say that the World Health Committee, all the way down to the lower part of the Committee, can provide their review. We must realize that the greater part of the General welfare committee is in favor of the case and that all control is at hand. The General welfare committee is on the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u16	President. This is not the first time a camp wine has been scheduled for the conversation here at the General Assembly in an embarrassing time for the government. It is memorable, then, when that matter was discussed in January 2009 at the General Assembly, the independence category considered it the most important thing in their day, while it was in the face of all, first to ourselves and to the world, that life was more complex than that. You see, the Council is now on the agenda for the starving policy of this government. That subject will be discussed in a discussion about the next few days' budget plan, for here we will not discuss camp booze. It is absurd to discuss the issue that is not over. General and Education Committee. I trust it to the highest. The president does not establish this issue, as there is a nonsenseing conflict, and it is not working sufficiently out of the General and Education Committee, which is specifically determined by the fact that this is the case. The welfare committee has not yet issued a review, although the chairman of the welfare committee is on the case and at the same time the vice president of the General and Education Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I would like to challenge her to face her solemn duties and complete the review of the committee as directed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u17	Madam President. When we on the General and Education Committee sent wine to camp for review with other committees, we weren't doing it in some kind of joke. We just sent it to the welfare committee because we thought it was better in the position we had to dig into the public health views involved. As a result, we did not accept the General Commission to meet all the clients we otherwise had arranged for them to attend the welfare committee. This comment has not been made. Far from it! They have been made fools by being brought to the Senate committee just so that the views of those who object to this case could only be swept under the rug. For there is an unpleasant truth in it, in the estimation of those who desire to burn wine in the camp.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u18	A respectable president. This may not have been clear enough in my case earlier on the crews of Icelandic ships. It is without question that the matter will be brought back to the environment and transport committee for information. It's below all caves if we're going to make such dramatic changes to these laws without the attention of a professional. With all due respect to the Environment and Transport Committee, I can't take a moral position on this matter if I have no professional reviews. On the other hand, I've called a professional, including... ... andthey don't like this. That this bill should be written out and made legal today, and preferably yesterday, it's below every block. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u19	A respectable president. What a strange situation this is when the issue of No. 106, the liquor bill has been removed. The General and Education Committee without other members of the Parliament producing opinions requested. These committees have spent much of their time and time with a client who often put forth great effort to attend meetings with members of the council on this matter. Since then, fundamental changes have been made in the case that I think I'm pretty sure some of the agents behind 93 reviews of the case would like to take a closer look. Clearly, these changes do not have to be taken into consideration for long periods of time. Far from it!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u20	Madam President. Of course, all can make mistakes. But I'm surprised to find out that a man as well as a contemporaneous man. paritaprevir Adalman's Ármannsson should put forth effort to get a talk chair and try to measure this process. It's simply that way. One of the first and richest responsibilities of a Senate committee is to investigate a matter, then try to make a mutual agreement about them if possible, but put them out with differing views and opinions if such agreements are not available, only if the members of the committee agree that the matter is fully and fully researched. Neither was present in this case. It says everything that has to be said in this case that has been sent out to more than one Senate committee for review and requested an opinion, so quickly tore it out in this way without at least making the rest of the committees aware that they are now bound to receive their opinion. None of this was done. It's completely precarious. Of course, these changes are only to try to beat the board, which, of course, was in confusion. [[The president calls.]] They're trying to collect the sheep into one round with these baits.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u21	It's not a government case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u22	Well, that's still the way it is, baby. Prime Minister. Yet, it is always that way when this issue occurs that it will occur at the highest level. The Prime Minister panics and interrupts and blushs his face. [[Up front.]] It's such an ideal case. [[The point is, who's upset?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u23	A respectable president. I know that the reviews were about to be prepared for a financial committee at least. They were going to unite the majority and the minority, since they were very similar. I was allowed to have a little chat with a traveler in the General and Education Committee on the Changes to the Committee, but I didn't realize that the matter would be torn out of the Committee. Although I made it clear that the adjustments were a bit extensive, I liked the suggestions in my own life. But because of the way the case was torn out, you realize, based on the discussion, that the sole purpose of tearing the matter out of a committee as it was done is that everyone agreed that the matter would not go through during the council, not so on a vote, would be the only purpose of tearing such matters out of a committee to show the changes. I don't feel that it's a little proper to treat things at all. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u24	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came to the point, that this method was so that the adjustment could be made. Of course, there must be a comment to such a practice. What's going on with our council members, I'll tell you in particular what time is it? senators sitting at ease. A welfare committee, since they are not asked for their review? It is extremely serious that such a case is taken out of a committee that has not been considered the public health factor, since it is huge in this matter. Therefore, there is no other way to make serious comments about this work, making it clear that this matter will not be continued at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u25	Madam President. As we have seen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a minority of the legal committees had come with the committee's opinion or plan. Then, when the greater part contributed, it was decided to try to unite in it. We have that job, me and what. United States superintendent, the superintendent of the superintendent, the superintendent of the superintendent. The financial agenda shows that alcohol and alcohol prevention policies, tobacco prevention policies in cooperation with stakeholders. We're talking about both fully prepared policies and implementation programmes that have a vision of the main objectives to follow up with the Action Programme. The Minister of Health is responsible for this class, but cooperation with Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is emphasized as having a joint link, such as in the case of premiums. I have to ask the highest. Prime Minister, who called up earlier. He must discuss these matters with his people because I believe in his wanting to be the way of the new lawgiver, i.e. a baseline law on public finances, as well as on public finances. This is completely contrary to unexpected or unexpected changes in current and long-term policies. [[The president calls.]] There's no such thing, Mr. Honorable President, what this bill means.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u26	Madam President. I must agree with the criticism that has occurred since then. Councilmen who have talked about the tactics that have been practiced. At the same time, I must say that a measure of surprise is in the process of doing things that are contrary to other fine management. The head of the committee, who has at least had the program of committees in such a way that members of the Committee have some idea of what will happen and what will be done. Now, it's just quite a touch of the committee. So we could have been informed in advance that this case could be submitted to the committee. On the other hand, just before our meeting, we received a 15 - minute commission at a committee meeting, and the matter was arranged. The fact that this matter was established and taken out of the committee without any warning came like a thunder from the open air. Such work is not to be imitated. I hope so. The head of the General and Education Committee will make this one mistake in a global and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u27	President. I'd like to agree with what's been presented here, and I'd like to add up the cost of a brand of booze, b) all the bills that fall dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u28	V.E.G. President. Today, members of Congress have conducted a fine review of the marvelously maligned treatments this liquor bill is receiving at the Council, which is absolutely a disgrace. It has been observed that the impact of the situation has not been determined either with regard to the health and financial systems, which is a long - term government plan until the next five years. It's reprehensible. You ask yourself, " What is the purpose of the game? ' Where's the politicians? It's pretty obvious. It is to draw attention from the more important things, i.e. the main language of this council, the financial program for the next five years, which is naturally magnificently defective and handproof. It knows more than one part of the budget board. It is interesting to read the opinion of more of the financial legal committees. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, the Parliament's strategy does not offer the situation. We have a few days left of this council. It's such an obvious trick for the government and the government, planning to treat the council like this. It's a complete disgrace. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u29	Madam President. It's just a typical buttercup technique being used here. We know her from noon. Perhaps the person who communicated with someone has been able to point out this dramatic method in an effort to improve the situation in an ongoing attack on the people and the council. Of course, you're just trying to draw it up like that. We can quite see through the Trix behind it, that there's something better to have alcohol in special stores, it's like what's today, except for a private hand with it. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah. What happens then? There won't be special stores with alcohol in the same place as today, everybody knows. Then there is the dissatisfaction that they plan to take advantage of combating booze and demand that alcohol be sold rather in public stores, since the ice cream truck hardly comes ashore with booze to offer for sale. We'll see exactly what we can do. [[The president calls.]] They're trying to get people who have been opposed to having booze in camp, getting it in special stores. People see that they don't make it, and they call out for booze in a camp. Or so. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u30	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, Environment and Resource Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u31	Madam President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Minister on high school issues. When the budget is examined, which was approved at a council convention in August, the highest. Ministers sat as health minister and his class conducted the Ministry of Education, and it says that in 2021, high school contributions were expected to be 31 billion and 288 million. However, it is suggested that the current budget is expected that this same year this amount will be $ 1 billion and $447 million lower. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to two: What has exactly changed since an independent party and the advance group proposed a financial program that would not save themselves in this school but would be the only ones that would escape to promote this level of education, beyond the fact that the members of the Independence Party have become different? Second of all. This has been the discussion of the integration of two schools, the transfer of public schools to private companies that support the need for a high school management program because of the financial agenda proposed. V.E.G. A minister has said, at least I have heard him say, that he takes criticism seriously. I appreciate it at the highest. Minister. So I would like to ask him if he doesn't think it's right, in view of the fact that this is a major cut-off from the last financial plan, major policy making, to consult with the General on high school policy before making such decisions. There is something that we in our memory are ready to do. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on explanation of this cut-off procedure. Or will he give all the responsibility to the Chairman of the Holvina Association of the University of Gilead in Reykjavík about that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'll try to get over them in the two minutes. What changes have been made in the budget since its approval in August? Although the Al Parliament's budget would be only in the autumn months of last year, and we would pay the budget for 2017. Expenditures increased by hundreds of millions of dollars during December. Can anyone think that there will be no effect on any other scheme or government plans? It would be indistinguishable if there were various areas of government spending, so you don't talk about special insurance and credit groups, it wouldn't affect business to another business. The biggest outstanding example if you look into high school, you turn toward making a budget for high school, like most other businesses in your plans, is increasing from the school system, from 0.5% up to 2%. This is especially where weighing into it. I would like to emphasize, however, that despite all talk about the incision in high school, talking about cutting this far to bone at the same time as the financial programme shows that the actual cost of a student is growing by 3◯4%. Lately, it would have been considered a cutback.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u33	Madam President. I'm now concerned about the jury if it's the highest court hearing. Ministers, here to refer to the Generals and to the payment he himself took part in, instead of agreeing with at least more of the legal committee, who is expected to be appointed officers of the Supreme Court. Minister, to reduce the demand for maintenance at high school and to fight for this level of school to be shown the right choice. I'm going to go to the top. A minister to pick up the mark of this school level and to keep the promises made in the days of his prehuman existence in work and a platoon minister that one - sided shortness decisions would not result in cutbacks. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister and reiterate the question I asked earlier. He says that he takes criticism of openness seriously. Is he then prepared to deal with the school level policies in agreement with the Council so that there will be some agreement on the course? Because it will not be reached by one - side decisions on the unity of high school throughout the country as foretold. [[The president calls.]] This requires political discussions. A minister is not under law to do so, but he can still decide to have such an appointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u34	A respectable president. I'm pointing out what. A senator is supposed to be a high school policy, not only at high school, but at all levels, in law on those attending school, and also in special laws, as in this case of high school, as well as in the fact that a top - school program suggests the importance of government matters at a time. When we consider the unity that is being discussed in the Council of the United States and the League of Technology and the High School of the Year, it is in my mind that the law of the State is obliged to consider in what way the government should deal with the major changes that lie ahead of us in high school. Does anyone think that students in high school are shrinking about 600 each year for the next three years, there are no changes? Of course it does. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Of course it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u35	You selfish bastard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u36	A respectable president. United Silicon has been in focus for months. There is a pot broken, so that no more is said in various matters. May 2nd. I made an inquiry to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers regarding the inhumanisation of United Silicon under contract made with the state. Tomorrow is 15 days from the time I asked the inquiry, so I wait for an answer to be answered. It's certainly not at the highest custody. Environment Minister here to answer. It was reported in the news yesterday that United Silicon's factory was started yesterday and all the equipment is being run up. People in the city of Rhinestown are not particularly at peace. One of the founders of this factory, Þórólfur Júlían Dagsson, says in the news, by permission of the president: It's not possible to be in experimental work with people. It is 14,000 people in the vicinity. I'd like to ask the minister if he'd like to have some experimental activity in 14,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u37	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. That's exactly right, community hasn't been happy. Of course, they do not have good experience with the company. Hv. A senator may remember that I joined the population when I declared that I felt that it was enough and that the factory had to be closed and reformed. It was done. Hv. A senator may also know that the EEA shuts down on the basis of a lot of complaints from the population due to discomfort. Then the EEA has granted permission, from what I understand, to start again, beginning with the development of a Norwegian advisory firm making its own independent assessment of the factory and valuation plans. Apparently they're approved and are being tried again. So I'll answer a question. A senator: No, it's not okay for the public to be an experimental animal, for I have always made it clear and required improvement when appropriate. I understand that the improvements that have been made in consultation with the Norwegian Advisor Society are adequate, that the factory is now being started to investigate it. In addition, the EEA has to assess it using pollution measures to see whether the company will act on the laws and regulations in accordance with these improvements as it is obliged to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It was observed that more than 30 comments were made. It was made necessary that all those comments be resolved. However, we do not know exactly what will happen next. United Silicon's employee is quoted as hoping that the improvement will be successful, with the permission of a president: Our counselor believes that improvement should limit this smell, but it could take weeks. I'm gonna let me ask you the highest. The minister of how much lengthy the Minister has in the event that the reforms made were not sufficient to remedy this pollution and the depravity in the area. [[The president calls.]] Would it be an option to cancel our contract with United Silicon?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u39	A respectable president. I think the Senator knows this, but if he doesn't know it, it's only been reported that my long- suffering isn't much when it's time for this factory where it's gone downhill. However, it is also important to know that the EEA is authorized to close without warning if this mechanism fails. I expect to be monitored closely and that the EEA will use its resources and be able to exercise caution for the public in this case as it has done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to direct two queries to the highest level. Prime Minister, who is concerned with a five - year budget and its revenue. It presents changes in the value tax system where host service taxes and other travel-related activities rise from 11% to 24% on July 1, 2018. According to the 2015 National Conference Conclusion of Independence Party, Presidential permission: It is important that the public does not place a stone in the road of tourism with increased taxation, orderliness, or new government institutions. Visitors to tourist facilities pay for their construction. It is not reasonable that tourism facilities are financed by taxation at noncombatants. I would like to ask the prime minister if he still agrees with this meeting of the country. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister is released in the majority opinion of a body board on the Senate resolution proposal for a five-year financial programme, stated, by permission of the president: In the middle of the year, the value tax is not desirable, and in preparation for the next budget bill, a search must be made for a review of the plans. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he agrees with the majority of the budgetary committees to postpone the remuneration of the merit tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u41	Madam President. It is fine to receive reviews of the policies we have agreed on in the Independence Party. This refers to how we watch the taxation and construction of basic construction roads, which the tourism has certainly become today. The change we're working on here is one of the underlying grounds of this long-term plan and facing the merit tax. It means that there is a reduced number of people who benefit from the lower steps, while the change involves the lowering of the upper step. It is certainly the policy of the Independence Party to reduce spells. What you can see when considering the effect of this change is that the overall effect is to reduce land prices, reduce the general value level to the lowest in the North countries. It is, in effect, a tax charge from the homes of the country, which will carry a lighter tax burden after the change has taken place and more on the sector that seems to have cut off children's sheets and has the potential for being in the general tax system. These are the main points of the cost tax change that I think is in line with the priorities we have promoted in the Independence category, and we've been working with other groups in reducing accessations and improving the effectiveness of the value of the tax system in recent years. Then a greater portion of the legal committee was asked. I have to say, it's not surprising that there are opinions that would be the best place for the change to take effect at the end of the year. But the budget isn't worth a tax bill. It is only being considered on the underlying grounds of the income and remuneration programmes and switch to the topic field. [[The president calls.]] This discussion is timely when the tithing program becomes clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u42	A respectable president. I understand it's difficult for the highest. Prime Minister to admit that this is an increase in taxes. This, of course, is not a major part of his political party. So, of course, he needs practice sessions to explain to us that he is being raised to lower. In terms of the greater part's opinion, it seems to me that there's a certain turning point here. Sounds like the highest. The prime minister agrees with the majority of the body members of a branch office, for it is by no means surprising to me, since I know to the highest degree. Prime Minister is very much in favor of the legislature. I think we're actually looking at some political news here. This rise will be delayed. Am I right?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u43	Madam President. The main purpose of providing a financial programme for the council and the discussion, calling for comments, etc., is to give an opportunity to draw out on specifics that may need to be considered more carefully. I can honestly say, as it is, there is no surprise that there are discussions that in many ways it would be better to make the change in a single step and not have this intervening situation in 2018. But neither are we making that decision right now. We are simply saying that in this financial program, the underlying prerequisite is that it actually happens. In this way the income line will be formed and the budget will then depend on other conditions. These are things that we will naturally look to. We listen to the reviews for the council and the messages that come from members of the Senate when we eventually sit together in the Ministry of Economics and put up with the government, and finally for the Senate, where all of this will be finalized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u44	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that she had a conversation with the highest. A minister of education assumes that more of the committees agree with the minister. Now it's time to find out that it's not, and it looks like it's the best. The prime minister is preparing to disagree with himself too. The fact is, the government can't handle the income. That's what governments are way too unconventional. Even if contributions to hospitals, schools, and transportation are much smaller than they had to be, the government cannot finance their own financial plans. Prior to a weekend, reports were made that a financial committee resists the increase in values taxation and is now looking at the pros and cons of return fees. This results in over 8 billion holes in the next year and 17 billion in the years that followed. This irresponsible economic government promotes high growth and upslash tensions. It's under the roof. A minister of that comfort? Now, the same council members want to overlook the irresponsibility of a private Keflavík airport, which is financed by monopolitan operations. In fact, a minister has put such ideas into practice. In answer to that chair earlier this winter, she said that the construction of the Cheflavík Air base was financed by taxpayers. How does she get it out when the reality is that the airport itself finances its projects with loans that do not have Kingdom responsibility and also provides a lot of money for its business? Tells you the highest. Ministers still have the right to grant private positions on this important gate into and out of the country where almost all tourists pass through? If a minister is serious, how will she achieve an efficient competition with such a terminal that has a complete monopoly and also become private property?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, I want to respond only to his words and to the opinions of the committee's committee more than half of the legal committee. The answer to the question of whether I find that reassuring is yes. I feel that the majority of the problems, responsibilities, and laws on public financial matters are the opinion of the committee. I feel that the majority of the legal committee have been doing a good job in this case. It hasn't been simple and we're learning into this system. I think it's what's published, whether it's a large picture or a special proposal to the government to continue working on analysis or any other information mentioned there. Regarding the terminal in Cheflavík, I continue to believe that I don't feel that all the structure there is and all that is now owned by the state should remain that way. I think there's a lot of difference between whether the state owns a runway or a business venture. I feel that there is nothing I can do but examine whether others can be trusted in them and continue to feel that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u46	Madam President. Is it not this way in the financial program that income due to individual operations is all to be used to pay off debt? In Silfrina, the minister has also said that travel service costs will not be increased and duets will be adopted at the same time. A great deal of the budget now contributes to our return. Is it not clear, then, that the coming charges will be concluded, and ministers will be bent into the dust by their own peaks? Then you ask: Were the pros and cons of a comet that yields much less money than increases in the value tax not examined before a financial plan was submitted? I'm concerned that this private development at the airport, where people talk about risks - of course, there is some risk of all property and structure. But here we have a well - run company that also gives profits and supports itself in its structure. If that's the reason, I'm afraid this is the very way to use to privatize further, and perhaps even worse things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u47	Madam President. The right to add to the Congress resolution is that neither income nor fees are taken out there. There's no hole, like a whale. A senator came in. In terms of coming charges, they would provide no more income than the value of the tax changes should be done. Other than that, it is not implemented when discussing attendances during the discussion. There is no comment on how this happens on domestic flights, whether counterworks can arise, or export, that will result in the need not to place thousands of dollars on a different level on an internal flight. Nor has it been discussed what the amount would be and how it would have affected. But return costs will not bring more money to the state than the cost tax change is required. As far as the bus station goes, we'll be cool. The senator obviously disagrees on this. But there are no other viewpoints behind my mind. [[The president calls.]] This is my political opinion and vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u48	Madam President. I'm going to weigh something in the same knee as I'm going to come to my attendance. It is obvious that special revenues are needed because of the pressures of tourism in land and community. There has been a strategy for sustainable travel services, such as it is now called, far away. Instead, they talk about responsible tourism, which is an excellent step. Such revenue is now the parking charge of private and national parks and peaceful areas, but it is headed according to a new bill for rural parking fees. Of course, there is only one step without the overall vision, but still a certain improvement, and then there is a significant increase in the value of taxes. We've been on the left green and more people have been talking about coming charges. It is often spoken of as a modest amount of 1,500 dollars. or so. One thousand. It would give us 33/4 billion a year who would walk down the hall. But I remind you, we have to look at the missing box. It is the weightlines of the country and the people in the light of sustainable goals. These are natural things, and these are cultural things, we can call them. All such applications require control, we have called it an access control control or something else. I believe financing should always be done in light of this frame. I'd like to ask the highest. Tourist: Does she agree that the framework has been missing and what steps must be taken to create the total frame of solution that we need? Look, it's hard. That's what I'm talking about. Minister favours attendance as first as part of the necessary funding of infrastructure, etc.? How does she picture putting them to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A good inquiry by a senator. Many interesting things were introduced and important there. I agree with what. At least there is one tool in the chest we need together, state, rural society and private people. My vision is that each area needs to be self-sustained. I think parking costs are one step along that way. You're right. A senator came on, that sustainable goals are a good goal. We're not here yet. Everyone can agree that it sounds great and that the long - term policy should contain it, but to me it is a hollow chord until there are some procedures that will show us how to achieve that goal and the long - term vision. I can answer yes to the question, " This frame is missing. ' We simply have a lot of work to do in achieving clear policy and overall vision in tourism. I'm working very hard on it myself, but I mention here that, of course, I don't do it by myself, I realize that. I know, and I expect a body of Congress to do the same. It is something that governments and the General must work together. We now have a lot of things in our pipes that will be drawn up in the months to come, and then we have a specific basis for further decision making. I hope that by the autumn we can begin to see a clearer picture and that I'll bring her into the council and we'll deal with it. With regard to tolerance research and the work, I wholeheartedly agree. There's a senator who's missing a lot. That's why I welcome the petition of a council of left greens. There's a good introduction to the work we're starting. We will work hard at that job and do it fast and well. [[The president calls.]] They also need another kind of tolerance research, economic and social, which is a living document that we can then work on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u50	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. I'm glad she agrees with a few things I said. Her answers to her subsequent steps are still lacking regarding her return. I'm going to point out that the left green passed the bill for a year ago in the budget. That's where it was billed. Then I ask, " What has changed now? ' I would like to have a clear answer to these two questions; on the one hand, what to do next with the charges and what has changed since we made this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u51	Madam President. I'm sorry, I forgot to come in on that answer. I had taken notes, but there were so many interesting things. A senator came in. In terms of the charges, I have not made it a suggestion for the access control or income support. We are now working with the plans to move what is left of the rest of the tourism services that were not in general stages up to the general stage. I told them that we weren't talking about coming at the same time, unless they opened up on some changed account of the tax system to bring the other one, it's something we looked at, but I don't think it's possible to clean up the revenue. Remuneration is required to be relatively high in order for them to serve them as targets. In the case of the left green, I didn't particularly cover that bill, but I understood that there had been some questions about commitment to the EEA that were there, without my full statement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u52	Madam President. This is a matter of Congress, which is presented after the deadline for a donation. The time limit was set for all to get their language on a normal schedule. Unlike the 19th issue at this point, it is absurd to consider this issue ahead of time, a case that has nothing to do with nothing at all. It is filled with other fine members of Congress that will reach 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... so that you don't talk about any further in the process. It's totally absurd to agree to allow this matter to be on the program right now. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u53	Madam President. In contrast with the 18th issue, there is certainly a time pressure to resolve 19 cases. This is a relatively embarrassing error, which was concealed in alien law, which was not supposed to allow 16◯18 years of exchange students to have residence permits in Iceland. Therefore, we Pirats will vote for this matter to be treated by the council, even though it has been timed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u54	Madam President. The one present at the majority of the world's and educational committees on this matter is present; however, we received comments from Peritoneal Protection, which we in the Committee considered a reason to be taken into account. So we shall again call this matter into a committee between the 2nd and the 3rd. It is, therefore, Pirata's opinion that we are sitting by the vote of this one but we will vote for the case when Perconte's comments have been taken fully into consideration, which I understand to be available between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u55	Madam President. This journal suggests that if you have enough money to cover a large deal of loans on the loans you pay, you will be able to cover. The Committee's list of my section shows that, on the other hand, there is a marked difference between borrowers by how much they earn, since these loans are primarily available for those with sufficient income to support them, while it is critical how these loans can affect financial status. In the left movement, a green supply will violate this case, but it will sit by us during the adjustment proposals and we will represent the lesser part's request after the case is taken back into place. The Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to see if some adjustments can be made in order to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u56	Madam President. This bill has been criticized for many things. It seems that this can add to the inequities of society. In addition, there is not yet any analysis of the actual economic impact of this being done. It is clear that at some point we need to open up to what is being said in the bill for the EEA Convention, which has been delayed to this point for years. It can be delayed any longer or until the many faults have been corrected. So we agree with this, and we will sit by making adjustments, opposing the whole thing, but, like, then. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, said we're going to call it between the 2nd and the 3rd. of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u57	A respectable president. We are opposed to this matter at the advance party. We'll sit by as far as the change is concerned, but we think like the rest of us who have come here in a pita that we don't have the point of making these changes. The economic situation is somewhat narrow these days, a high level of tension in the economy, and a considerable temptation in taking such a loan. So we want to make some adjustments so that we might be able to do something a little better. We request that the case be referred back to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u58	A respectable president. We in the memory of the General and Education Committee have requested that this case be called back between 2 and 3. in the hope that more effort can be made to improve the situation can be made together. They're suggesting that the fund be restored under loans they've been paying for years. Other measures are not taken to address the very serious comments made by Kingdom Accounting on loans in general high school book studies. We have suggested that equality be guaranteed, so that there can also be a payment loan at high school, as much as it might be suggested, i.e. borrowing at three private schools of a local country. However, we support the adjustment made by the majority to withdraw the Ministry's proposal to forbid loans to those attending foreign studies. [[The president calls.]] Since we will recall our adjustment to the 3rd. we will sit by other adjustments in the greater part, hoping that we will be able to get together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u59	Madam President. As noted by the oar. Harðardóttir We would like to be in the memory of the General and Education Committee to achieve a solidarity within the Committee to change these laws so that there will be an assembly in the country around the country in public colleges, not just private schools in connection with the university. That is what we will do now between the 2nd and 3rd. In view of the fact that we want to examine more recent changes than are suggested in the majority aluminium. Where there is no longer a crisis of dwelling, we will sit by regarding the proposal and hope that the matter will be better prepared for the council during the final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u60	Madam President. I agree with them. Councilmen who have come before on our stand on this matter. While the majority of the part is certainly an amendment, i.e. to prevent foreign students from borrowing, it is a type of discrimination that is being abolished here. However, we are concerned about a considerably greater degree of discrimination, which is that they are taking a stand against students on the basis of the type of school they choose to go to college, whether they are publicly expelled from high school or private institutions. Therefore, we will sit next to the release of this case at this time, calling in our adjustments in order to make some kind of reconciliation. We also hope to get the opinion of a state attorney on whether the proposed bill will stand over a constitution and hope that it will be brought to the house for the release of this case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u61	Madam President. I have always felt that the loan fund of Icelandic students should be an equation, not for separation. I have felt the arrangement that has been here, and is now being established in a formal manner, strange. Instead, it would have to be done, as we have explained, that any student, wherever they live in the country, submits to the same rules as mentioned here, including those who do not study in these designated three schools so that everyone can have the support of the loan fund to educate themselves. It must always be the standard for us to educate those who want to pursue and make it possible for them to do so. That's not what we do with this. I really hope that more of the General and Education Committee and less part of it will achieve some kind of agreement in the fact that we use the target of age, the unit or the underlying set, which these three schools have had beyond any other school in terms of the availability of students to the Icelandic Board of Education. It is totally unacceptable that this fund is abused in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u62	Madam President. We here vote for a subject that is quite assertive in society. Travelers are not at all at peace, and they have expressed concern that this bill will succeed. However, I would like to acknowledge that this is a local authority to contribute to parking lots to build and maintain parking lots and things related to them. It's in the spirit of Pirata to bring decision-making authority to the countryside. That's why I'm going to vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u63	A respectable president. There are many factors to consider with this bill. There are many good things in it, and it takes over a number of subjects that have been left unsettled for far too long. However, there are many dangers to be avoided. This should not result in the highest level of activity. Government or government items believe that the financial needs of the local community were met by this bill. There is certain danger signs that parking costs should be used in ways other than the construction of the services they are expected to perform. Sadly, when it comes to this category, the overall policy of government is lacking, as shown by earlier discussions. A smaller section of the Committee returned a special party. We in the left green won't lie against this bill's approval and we'll sit next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u64	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill for support at the first apartment. This is a change in that law, No. 111/2016, however, there is a small financial adjustment proposal. The movers are also at large here. Councilmen of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn, Brabbur Níelsson's son, Valdimarsson Steindór Perdímsson, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred, and Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason. As one report on the bill shows, laws on buying on the first apartment, law No. 111/2016, to be found on July 1 next, requires adjustments in order to strengthen their performance. Instead of having to apply correctly if there has been a break in pay for longer than three months, it is suggested that unless it breaks, it takes more than 12 months. This is how those who do not have regular pay are being met, such as. sailors. At the same time, if it is a new arrangement or further arrangement, it is suggested that 12 months according to law refer to the calendar wound. One person who picks up e.g. the review of job savings in November would allow 2/12 parts of the maximum financial height for a 12-month period to be taken into consideration for other conditions there and 10/12 parts of the last calendar year of the continuous ten-year period allowed to be used as support for buying at the first apartment. At 1st. 4. Article 5 of which the maximum annual budget of the individual's budget for the assessment of ownership will be covered by a new hearing. Since payment for rights is limited to the introduction of a Member State that has developed during each period, it is suggested that yield a negative yield of this period may result in impairment. It also suggests the change in the assessment of cumulative pay and the provision of pay on loans no later than 12 months from the signing of a contract. It is an appropriate time to complete an application, as the purpose of the law is supported in the form of tax-free special delivery for those who are buying their first apartment. The Act on financial support on the first apartment contains a warrant for rights to the rights of the XVII arrangement on temporary XVII's law on the related insurance rights and the activities of pension funds and on the case of temporary XVI in the same law to create an apartment home for its own use. In the law, the rights have allowed continued use of their additional fees to pay on loans made on the basis of the house he acquired until the ten - year continuous period is reached. The period of legalization of additional expenditures has been due to the deduction of the ten - year continuous period of the law. Copyrights who intend to use the continued use of their special property savings as a result of purchase at the first apartment shall apply with an application for the government tax adviser's authority. It is suggested that the rights holder should no later than six months from the validation of the law on the support of the first apartment apply for the continued provision of special delivery, although it is not reasonable to allow no time limit to be set on it. It is suggested that temporary XVII temporary XVI protocols in terms of commitment of pension rights and the operation of pensions should result in the removal of a continuous ten-year period of law to buy support at the first apartment. The provisional rules meant that the warrant could be used to buy farm rights as well as new buildings or to buy apartment housing for its own use. According to the laws on buying at the first apartment, it is not possible to take advantage of the resources to buy in a farmhouse. However, those who have used the older resources to buy farm rights can always use the legal legal means to buy on the first apartment, to meet the laws, and will then be able to use the time they have previously spent deduction of a ten - year period, for which they cannot have the right to use more than others under the law. Finally, it is proposed that the current requirement for temporary XVII in the terms of life insurance and the activities of pension funds should be made that the payment of an additional amount of money could never be higher than that given as a member of the Member State's rights due to pay paids will be extended by two more years or up to 30 June 2019. In addition, there is a change in government financial law. It is the date. The provision of temporary II on official financial law is stipulated that the quarterly public financial report according to Article 12. The law should first appear within eight weeks from the end of the first quarter of 2017. Then the Minister's annual report should be submitted at 62rd. The law no later than June 1st, 2017, for 2016. Directive 62. g. The law suggests that the Minister's annual report recognizes the results of spendings in litigation and lawsuits and compares them with financial resources. Since the budget of the year is based on older ground, this information is not provided and it is suggested that the annual report should be published no later than June 1, 2018, by 2017, instead of June 1, 2017, for 2016. Mr. President. After 1st. I suggest that the case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u65	A respectable president. I thank you for his speech. I want to direct four questions to him. In the processing of the bill, it was up to us to open up the possibility that those who lost their property in an forced sale because of the bank crash during a certain period of time would be allowed to enjoy the privileges involved in taking out their special property savings to buy their own housing. Was there a discussion process involved in the payment of your special savings, either when you buy and when you build? What can be done to reduce the financial cost of first - time construction? What accounts for this? A member here who does not repeat the fact that there should not be a chance of using his special savings to buy a place?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u66	Mr. President. Regarding the first question, the answer is no. It wasn't, and it hasn't been discussed, but I intend on why. A senator came here on a very important matter. I think we should take it up in what way we can meet the people who were affected by the collapse of the business or financial system, and if they are wise or if we can somehow view people who suffered the trauma of losing their apartment home space as if they were using these measures as if they were the first purchases. That an unconcerned case, I would have thought it might be a good sound for some of those suggestions. It is then the job of the Economic and Business Committee to discuss it, and we can review it. I have to admit that I don't fully understand how to meet those who stand in buildings like that. A senator asks me about it. I think there's some technical procedure that could possibly be met. I understand the problem, but there may be a need for people to be on their way. I don't know how to answer. A senator different. This is one of the things we must consider. [[The president calls.]] But I think there is no time for that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you so much for the positiveness of the situation. A senator took up my question about other property. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says that there is a possibility of discussing what has to do with other real estates, even though it is only a short time for this program to be completed. But I think this is very important, if people really want to help people find housing, then this is a group we're supposed to consider and show understanding to them families because of the difficulties they went through in the wake of the collapse. Although there is a short period of time, it is very important to be careful about how the financing process is when you buy a house and when you're building a house, and how credit - paying loans are used if you have a very expensive financing, a capital loan, while you're buying the property, and while you're paying the endless fees your rural companies are paying now and planning to increase it. It's not until you've got a nice place to go to what might be considered a fokkin' loan, and then you've got a higher mortgage rate. At least I'd like to encourage them. A senator insists on this. The director of the UN spoke of the construction community in his company as he looked up to role models from the past, where individuals gather to build housing in a partner to make sure that the prices are built and then to own their apartments. How shocking it would be if those contemplating the use of their special property did not get the same amount of money because of the quality of the law about having a place to live! [[The president calls.]] I'd like to again, as I've said repeatedly about these matters, that we especially thought of people who are buying farms and what we can do about our special savings to meet those people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Just so it's clear, we're here to change the law as a matter of course. A senator was involved in putting and playing a large part in that procedure. That might have been a material reason for even taking that to heart. I'll admit it. I agree that the actions of the law and the whole law should be considered. [[Up front.]] We're not fighting it. We're trying to clear up and increase the rights of those who have rights that are present in the current law. Of course, there is a date issue in this subject. It matters. We will go through the way we dealt with the people who lost here, the innocent, their living quarters in the mess that we went through. It may be that there should be some kind of temporary arrangement where people have this right. I just think it's fair that we're working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u69	A respectable president. I've come up here, as it has been, and should not surprise anyone, to state that, of course, I continue, as I have done, a law of support to buy at the first apartment. When I was here at the elected season in 2009,2013, I repeatedly suggested a bill that was involved in creating a legal environment to encourage housing saving and to look forward to older role models. My fellow senator. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, has repeatedly presented similar cases here at the council. And when we had the opportunity, when we were in control, this was one of the things that we stressed, that there would be a permanent arrangement for individuals, for young people, to set aside and make payments in an apartment. It has been noted that this has been the biggest problem for the first buyers to have a home, that is the payment, not the payment of loans, but a payment. We've got a strong biofuel system, we have a strong social security system, and in recent years we've also been increasing special property savings, contract-oriented property savings in the labour market, and as a result, all presupposed to use a portion of the pay, a collection of pensions, into what has been the big savings, long-term savings of our homes here in Iceland, which is our home. The result is this strategy, as well as a system related to the loss of the head and the overall correction where the use of specialisation was part of that strategy. We've seen it since in all the numbers that have been showing up on their homes'status that people have increasingly been paying their mortgages down faster. How positive that is! We haven't really seen similar changes before. The attitude in Iceland may at times have been like that, and all too often, that borrowing is some kind of luck, it's a bad luck to borrow from a financial institution. Whether we were looking to the companies or the households and the rural communities, we set some kind of record in the crisis's leading point of debt, as well as in taking too many loans. However, we are seeing very changes in homes, so people are increasingly paying off their debts, paying for their housing seat. I am also pleased to see recent numbers of this behavior not only turn to the mortgage but also earns itself into a personal consumption, so credit card use and credit loans have not grown in the same way as personal consumption has been growing. We see, then, that government action during the last term has been under way in that there is an added incentive to pay off debt faster. It is also natural to have as much money as possible in an apartment or as an apartment as possible when you start shopping for the first time. As I understand this case, certain technical adjustments are being made in the payment of the fees and how it will be calculated, i.e. The rights that individuals or families have, as well as a small change in the law on public financial matters that are thus allowed by the committee. I want to come back to what I asked a messenger about, okay? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson, who turned to exactly what we lay-up people have called other real estates. There were thousands of people who lost their homes after the collapse of the bank because of unemployment, illness or because the commitment and/or mortgage rates of the individual's households were way too high. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came into it that I had been in the position of being able to influence it. Sadly, although we at the Ministry of Health repeatedly tried to promote it, it simply failed in these laws to make sure that this was the case with those who had already owned real estate. This case was not taken from me, or from the law bill, but from the highest. Secretary of finance who is the present prime minister, hm. paritaprevir Bjarni Benediktsson, as well as keeping in touch with something we were able to get through on the correction, that it would be possible to use it as well when it was due to be settled. I believe that in my dealings with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I have, as a result, been unable to achieve these changes at the time. However, we advanceers are known for not giving up when we have faith in the cause, so we will continue to speak for that change. It is very enjoyable to hear that the head of the Economic and Business Committee, at least when it comes to so - called other property, shows this understanding, and thinks that it should be considered in the treatment of the committee. Then I think it would be very good, too, if the Committee would call for it from the head of the state tax and even individual loan agencies how the process is in themselves when people buy an apartment or offer an offer for an apartment, how the payment is done, and how the special savings is calculated there when people make an offer on the basis of credit, as well as how it is done when it comes to building. In recent years, even decades, this has greatly reduced the survival of people. Most of the building is built by contractors, large contractors, so it may be in my opinion all too much of the past that individuals or families get together and build a house or a house, or go to building a small house, as was done in the minivan area of their time. This does not change, however, that it can be done in the same way as other humans do. I think there is good reason to consider what you can do to reduce the financial cost of the building process by having a very expensive overgrading loan. Sadly, I know a number of examples of this being one of many families that have been badly treated after a crash, even when people did not sell their previous property and have been building a new house and that they were basically this arrangement for the finance that was worst on people. And it would be good if something could be done to prevent it, as I understand now, to be looked at first for a person to take a loan, hence to borrow more loans, to pay more on the public, before he can get his special property money to lower the head as the arrangement is. One of the things I stress when it comes to housing is that people have a choice. People are forced, not to have their own housing, but to have the choice. That was the thought behind the law on buying the first apartment. It was also the thought of changes in housing partners, so it would be important that those who choose to buy a home estate rather than to buy an apartment or build could also use their special savings. It was successful to overcome this thought during the fallout process, but unfortunately it did not succeed when a permanent home environment was established. That's, in my opinion, very unfortunate. In some ways you stop at the fact that those who have spoken for freedom are not ready to give people the opportunity to really choose if they want to buy a home or to buy an apartment or to build a house. So I strongly want to encourage the committee to review the tips I bring here, even though the time is short. So I think it is important in view of the fact that it is late to show it understanding. I certainly hope that an authority and committee will take a good look at the indications I have here and show them understanding, and as a result, we will be able to resolve matters in a good way, as we have so far in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u70	Mr. President. These laws in good peace? They may not have been as happy as it was. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttur reminded me of. I remember that there were seven shapes on the law back then, and some were embarrassed by the fact that the laws or laws were controversial, especially because of the discrimination they involved. I'm moved to think of it a little bit. This bill that hadn't. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, recommends a way back into the committee, i.e. The Ministry of Economics requested that they be introduced as a change to another bill, which would not have been a good work ethic. A financial and business committee agreed that it would be better for those in charge of this case to make it a special case. I think we should talk about what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Eygló Harðardóttir showed us just how important it is for the WCCCs to have three discussions, that things are not being thrown into the finish line in the form of changes to other unrelated primary signals, but that we are trying to compromise our laws. These changes in the law on buying the first apartment involve and show us that the laws that are relatively new and that have not yet come into force need when changes occur. This raises questions about the grandest turn, which is often during the last days of the council, which is being run over without being fully realized. Here is another matter that we get before the council - and not the last - since we are taking a stand on issues that would have been more effective when the matter was under discussion. However, I would like to review, and the criticism stated, what was specifically discussed when this arrangement was established, i.e. that those who had not previously owned a home could use their own tax - free savings for up to ten years to gain an apartment house. The values of their law are on July 1st, 2017. The talk was primarily about whether the legal support that young people experience in a house - to - house market was needed to cope with the problem. That problem is enormous. That's exactly what happened. A senator who spoke before me, the problem of young people who have been entering a real estate market, mainly includes collecting for down payment, for people who are trying to break into a special market. Many fine things were done in an effort to lay down a tenet during the last term, and I quote them as a housing projector. paritaprevir The Eygló Harðardóttir spoke for being a social minister and was given a measure of reconciliation at the council. We hope to see that this environment, a more healthy tenure environment, is returning to the homes of young people. But what's so remarkable is that when we look at the position and the fine report as then the highest. A financial minister, the current prime minister, presented the last terms in terms of so - called generation accounts that show that young people have fallen behind in income over the decades. That report was submitted to the last assembly. In this country, the largest group's income was reduced, but the trend changed when they reached the age group of 3,35,639 years old. When Icelandic data from 1990 and 2014 were compared, it was observed that younger groups had decreased their income relative to the average in the past quarter, while older income had increased. The data showed a decrease in age groups between 1990 and 2014 up to a age group of 35◯39 years but an increase thereafter. It was also interesting to see that the highest income reached people of 45 in the early 1990's and was not in the early 1990's. This report on generation accounts was published up to 1997 when the development of voluntary revenues was examined, these processes were moving in the same rhythm. Thereafter, however, the older groups went ahead of the younger ones, and the gap extended to the financial crisis. Thereafter, there was a slight decline in the range, but so that the oldest groups kept the lead. Of course, there is a strong connection between the buying of provisions and shelters, so if individual groups are drawn back, as has happened with younger groups in this country, housing becomes difficult. Data from 2004 show that there has been a significant decrease in the share of its own housing in the youngest age groups. As we have noted earlier, it is especially possible to store up a down payment that has proved to be the greatest help to overcome for younger people. What we criticized, however, and others, in fact, members of the Controversies and the bright future at that time and left greener, were that support for those who are going to buy their first estate will be highly divided by the law. There we joined the labor movement, which made serious comments on this bill, both the National Association of Iceland and the BSRB, in their reviews where it was suggested that there was the greatest support to the highest income of individuals, in view of the fact that these are the tax-employing specialties as a matter of nature in the highest income. This discrimination is, in effect, exaggerated by saluting the highest earner groups, because while the proportion is the same for all, the numbers of banks are higher in terms of paying the highest income groups than those of the earnable groups. This is a huge fundamental change in housing support, which, in effect, aims to make public, through tax discounts, supports people for housing, but supports more in centenarians, as well as those with the highest income and less money in terms of those with the lowest income. Here we have had some supportive tools for housing. Rather, they have increased in recent years. We have the growth reform system, the correction done during the last terms, the support to buy the first apartment, the new housing arrangements, and the rented house I mentioned earlier. It was accomplished in the leading of all these matters, which was increased in consultation and housing policies. I have to say, a lot of good things came out of that job. I especially refer to the housing bill I mentioned earlier, the building of rented houses. At the same time, I feel that I need to bear in mind a general perspective in support of the special policy, that I'm not talking about rent houses, but about special policy, i.e. growth improvements that suffered greatly during the last term and continue to be impaired in the time of the present government, correction, and this arrangement. A fundamental change in how we support those who want to enter a special market is being made. Regarding these changes, it may not have been a political reconciliation, and it may have been lacking that the fine work being done in a group of consultations and returned to the housing projectors of their time also became involved in this aspect of the housing system. It was noted that this was actually another support system for those who need to make a home and would not be a failure to solve the problem. The real problem is the immensely unfashionable remuneration of younger generations. I think it's very important that we say things as they are. This case, as it was delivered last, increases the gap between young people, apart from how practical it is for any human to collect money from the highest figures given in the bill. It was suggested that if a median of money was available, this support could not be found to buy an apartment in the capital area. This time, last year, it is possible to quote the values of the Hagues Office, which was the median of pay after taxes, i.e. foreword to young people aged 25◯34 years, 274,800 k. per month. The median distribution rate for the next age group, 353/444 years, was 306,000 k. We naturally assume that something of these figures was too much for us, even though they were numbers from last year. This was pointed out in the reference to the GDR at one time, which would not be sufficient for families who made less than 600,000 dollars. in a month to collect for deposit in the first estate. Had your home 700,000. in a combined monthly amount of income would take about eight years to collect for 20% payment in a facility costing 20 billion. K. If a deposit should be made to 28 million dollars. K. An apartment would take it 11 years. It is clear to everyone that in the capital area there are no apartments in 20 million. K. and hardly anyone in 28 million. K. Of course, it was a reasonable indication that this arrangement was not available. The big thing about this is that we've said, or I've said it, and the left movement has a green supply, that this bill includes coincidences and adjustments to the system that has already been adopted by the greater part of the council to facilitate the case through the council. However, we cannot help but remind ourselves that the system that is being corrected here has to be corrected more than the comments made in the speech given at the same time. paritaprevir However, the Eygló of Harðardóttir and needs to be considered, was not agreed together, primarily because of its differences in income groups. It is far from the goal of promoting greater equality in the community. As a special means of supporting young people to purchase first estate, this arrangement can be highly challenged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir is very grateful for her speech. It is good to remember that there were three opinions on this matter when they moved back in time. As you walk through it, you will see that not necessarily things are changing. Rather, it will focus on whether someone else might be more convenient to meet young people. Like what? A senator went through in his opinion is just about so - called generation accounts, especially a report prepared for the minister of finance by the Secretary of the Friðrik Már Baldursson Boursson and Axel Hall. It makes it very clear that changing the behavior of young people, in which we have added emphasis on education, finishing high school, university education, later entering a family market, and thus increasing with less income for a longer time and then increasing faster after reaching the labour market. I don't think I disagree with the senator in this regard. But I would like to ask her about the interest. I've been more inclined to support people before they go into borrowing, as if with the first purchases, than that we reward people for taking the highest loans, as the growth reform system does. It's, for example. Very harsh criticism of how families with high income are rewarded for making a big debt, such as in the U.S. interest - making system. The same criticism has established the growth reform system in Iceland. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree with what even The World Bank Fund has pointed out that the interest benefits went to the highest income of the households? [[The president calls.]] And even to people with 15 million cut off for a year's pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. What I'm saying about the growth reform system is that the decision has been made through budgets and income bonds that they're involved in not moving the limit of growth reforms. I would have liked to see a more intense discussion at the U.S.A. scene on how we will maintain official support for those who enter a special market, as discussed at the General Assembly in connection with renters. We have set priorities for those entering a lease in our policy policies. There is the highest need for the government's support, the busiest, the poorest people, the people who have the most insecurity in housing. In view of the human rights of a home, I think it is normal for the public to support those who enter a special market in some way. It is only natural that there is some room for growth, and we wondered how we can achieve even goals in that system. However, it is not normal for me to know that we have a number of government support systems without such discussions being raised. What I thought was wrong with this case is that there is a new system, a housing service to young people to buy their first apartment, and these matters are not cared for. I remember very well the discussions on this subject in the highest degree. A minister who recommended this saying: Of course, more than a year's wages are in their pocket, even now they have higher income. Here is a fundamental difference in how we feel the role of the government should be held. Should this be to support those who need support? How do we achieve that in the legal process? I don't think that we can get it out with this case or by having a conversation not even about how we want to see the growth reform system developing but just doing it through a income video every year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with the answer to the inquiry. However, it was not clear enough whether the senator agreed repeatedly, that the majority of the funds that have paid interest paid have gone to a more lucrative family. In view of the fact that there is a set age limit for the use of special savings and in view of the information reported on generation accounts, younger people are more likely to have less income, and should be the group that we've directed tax support from government to government rather than that of older and middle - aged people, as we've been doing through the growth reform system where we've paid a lot of money. Finally. I know that the senator knows very well about the education system after he has served as minister of education. Has a what? A senator does not worry about how people will be able to find their own housing because we see now generations entering the housing market, which has much higher education loans than we have seen in the past? This is especially related to a huge increase in loans due to schools in this country. Men have talked about it more and more, e.g. correspondent in the United States There was a huge election in the leading of the election, where President Bernie Sanders wrote those views. At any rate, the U.S. bank estimated that the number of people who make a home could be reduced proportionately by the percentage as they owe more on student loans. How interesting it would be to hear from the senator if she had wondered about this!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u74	Mr. President. In my first answer, I mentioned that the main focus of my movement was on the tenants'position. The nature of the matter is the most efficient group. The nature of the matter, according to those who were corrected for the mortgages, was also in high - income groups, since it is the people who have possessions in the community. The nature of a matter says that interest is better paid than rent money. However, they have taken into account income and property status. What I'm saying to you is that this limit of decline has actually remained unchanged and remained unchanged. This is done through a income band while it is not part of a complete vision of a housing market. It's about what it's like. A senator brings up the subject of a student's loan, and I agree very highly with it. We see a very large increase in the amount of money to make up the Icelandic student's loan loan loans here in Iceland, not just abroad, but at least half of the loans that go to school in Iceland, which are added to a future loan. That's a worry. I'd like to remind you of the ideas I presented at my time as a minister, which, unfortunately, were never finished at the council, but kept in mind that those who study at certain times would borrow a portion of their capital. I have no doubt that these loans will be a burden on these young people. We see a much larger figure, especially in college loans. I believe the loans need to be discussed specifically with the Icelandic loan fund and where to go with them. Initially, they were thought of primarily in foreign schools, where long schools have been paid against people. I mention America and Britain there. But we see a considerable increase in that subject here in Iceland and not only at university but also at fourth-stage schools. It's a discussion we'd have to have here at the council. Still, it goes all the way in the same direction, i.e. that we need to take a collective measure of the affairs of young people, both through student loans and by means of housing support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u75	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has toed up many of the points I was going to discuss. Still, I'm going to take this opportunity and add it just a little bit. I'd like to say first, it's a fairly specific bill. Here comes a tape worm taken by members of Congress during the last days of Congress, such a correction-to-blow-in-the-horn tape worm against two completely unrelated legal requirements. On the one hand, the law on support to buy at the first apartment to implement the 1st of July. and on the other hand, public financial law. So it's a pretty special cocktail. Because of what to talk about. A layman and a what. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir on whether a person should consider himself better, even though it is not the case, the situation of those who are hurt and who are suffering from a disaster after a crash, e.g. in this context to see if those who lost an apartment at the time but who want to try their apartment back or make an apartment again should receive a release and be classified as first apartment buyers and have such support, I think that's a very good option. Of course, those were not normal circumstances. In itself, there would be nothing wrong with zeroing in that way, ignoring the fact that people have owned an apartment that they have so lost at that time. But I'm going to allow myself to remind myself of another group on the way, which would be a very gray possibility for these well - meaning people, former government members, to adopt. It is the borrowed group that is still inert in the garden. I've tried to remind him of him and made all the last term and still now, by e.g. request to the highest manager. Financial and economic ministers, but unfortunately, he almost firmly answered that there was no point in doing anything for that group. There are still people who are struggling to keep their homes. Some of them have lost it; others are still struggling to keep their homes and loans in such a way that they are not committed to the mortgage. And there are still people who are overcrowded or about 100% mortgaged even in spite of significant increases in real estate prices in recent losses. It would be ideal for those who want to seek righteousness in this regard to eviction. Don't try to help me. It was evident that the agreement between the state's capital and money funds at the beginning of 2013 was made on the basis of action in which the pension fund was intended to participate, not to be great, but to make a difference; however, by that agreement, nothing was ever done for the entire last term, and it appears that it is now. So I'd like to say about this bill that it is, of course, a certain part of the great operation that was so called, worlded, sometimes referred to by the mother of all campaigns, these vast measures made by the then government, and held a majestic press meeting to the death. In fact, before the 2013 election, this was to be 350 billion off on the homes'debt at the cost of vultures, but ended in about a year. 72 billion from the state funds and then this speciality-separated force, which was naturally in part to please the independence party in that trade. I've been having a hard time with this case all along. I've been so shocked that the Allied Congress should accept such antisocial legislation. So I was hoping, because it was thus closed during the last term that it would not be valid until July 1, that a new government would use the time to reconsider this. Surely she would have done so if she had not remained the same right hawks that were in the last one. I say for my part that if I had influenced the government side of the board, I would have pointed to this case as one of the first things a new government should sit over and revise and change. To disappear from supporting young people to their first shopping? No. To do so in a decent way. Do so in a way that the minimum relativeness of the individual's subjects would be respected. Because this is the amazing development of support directly from government funds and from rural society to the general taxpaying state and rural society, the more people earn, the more money they earn. It's like the income tax was backwards. There's nothing more to it than that. That the highest percentage was at the lowest level of income, about 40% of the first 2,200,300 times, to drop to 30%, 20, and 15 and 10%. That's how it comes out. These types of tax dating are sometimes referred to as progression, neutral, and rescindance. So that's the opposite of propressive approach. It's amazing what you're doing. This means putting in the expected amount of dozens of dollars if not a hundred billion dollars of common tax dollars and expecting future tax revenues of state and rural society that would otherwise be property savings, requested, paid in the usual way, and would come out as an anti- taxation process later. Then you might ask: Good and good, if you are willing to place a lot of money, tens of billions of dollars on top, from state funds and corporations, in support of people for the first purchases, why isn't that done, in general? At a minimum, all, regardless of income, will receive the same amount, but not on the other hand. That's a fairy tale conclusion. I think it's a reason to remember, Mr. President. The value of silence should not be ignored. That's the way it was all taken care of. Of course, it does not make things any better that at the same time the growth system is being destroyed. I don't know about the science that during the past few years, the growth reform system was mainly supported by commercial people. I think it's just the other way around. As far as I can remember, right after the collapse, the growth reform system and its implementation have been modified so that support was more associated with the lowest salary. He was increased that way. The cut was then made up of the average and higher income, and the funds moved into increased support to the incomeiest. Of course, the growth reform system is about to go to nothing. The current national budget declares that the limit to freeze out time, which, of course, means that the sector's income and property restrictions laws will continue to reduce interest payments. That's all right, isn't it? I'm sure there are some who say. Are not growth improvements bad? Do they not encourage debt? Well, isn't it mainly about trying to face the most extreme conditions in housing and especially in income - stricken people? Of course, I agree with my chairman that special attention should be given to tenants and to support them. In other words, one of the few reasonably positive things that have happened in these materials is the laws on general apartments as far as they can reach them. Sadly, though, it is only 2,300 apartments over many years. It turns out that there is not even enough money to be expected in a financial program that we'll be better involved in some time later in spring or summer, Mr. President. Simply because of the facts now available from 2016, it becomes evident that these 3 billion per year are not sufficient to build the 600 human apartments that had been calculated. It's really missing. Hence, a good deal of more money will be needed to live up to its plans. But that is a positive matter. And how is this accomplished? With the establishment of state and rural society. There are money from state and rural societies drawn directly into the construction or purchase of the general apartments so that rents can be as low as that. If so, could it not be reflected in a special policy, saying: "When the purchases are done, we'll raise a certain amount directly from state to country, which will earn money from special property? The nature of the situation would immediately be more supportive, as the apartment is less expensive. I'm stuck with the money. And, in general, less money - rich people have to accept buying more than cheaper housing. Only at once would there be a completely different expression on the subject. Such support is well - known in some nearby lands. But I don't think anyone would think of building a social pyramid upside down and having assistance of this kind from the government, making a provision of tax on the support of the first apartment buyers, making it so much greater as their income is higher and the circumstances are better. Today, likely it has been as difficult for young as especially needy people to obtain their own housing. That's for a few reasons. Sadly, we are in a situation similar to that of many nearby countries that in recent decades, younger age groups have not received a relative amount of compensation for their dress - up development, such as older age groups. We're in the same position. It shows research. That's all we should worry about. We're losing people out of the country and all that. Second, it is possible to live in a reasonably manageable tenure for the first few years and lay down while trying to obtain your first house here, because renting from a medium - priced apartment is more expensive. One person is trapped in the cycle of not being able to meet the demands of payment or payment for his own purchase, which may mean the load of payment to an average of 130 to 150. K. a month, but if they have to rent, you can call them lucky if they get away with 200 yous. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. It's like this. And this bill and, actually, in my opinion, the reductions in the growth system are increasing in these substances, between the earnings and the better off, and those who are not. What will be, and what is the conclusion today when young people are trying to buy an apartment? It can if they have wealthy partners. Is that how we want it? Will we swallow it and accept it? That the only way that young people can have their own home is if they are so lucky to have parents who can help? Of course they do, those who can and will. It's fine. But we don't want to do that, so the others have no choice. This bill does not help in this regard. It adds to the difference of the situation and is, of course, completely incorruption. What to do is take the estimated cost of state and community because of this arrangement and then transfuse it to about what we could offer each of our first apartment purchases each year for the next ten years, making it a regular amount of money. Then you can meet there. Self - centered people care about their special policy, and that's all right. I have no objection to the fact that there is support for those who want to go that way. But it's supposed to be on some decent social basis, not like that. In terms of the changes in public financial law, so you don't forget the other parts of the bandorm, President, I know that the tourists are so proud of their imagination, this magnificent alliance they were able to negotiate on spring days, I'm not going to make a lot of remarks. I imagine that this is the right thing to do here because no annual report is coming this year. But that's what the change means, if I read it right. It looks a little bit like there's just a date, but I guess it means there's no comparative report this year. It won't be here until July 1st in a year. It is said to be because the presentation in the old and new system is not comparable, and thus it is not preprogrammed to publish the report. However, this is not to say that humans could not have returned some kind of report with, of course, any warning that a comparison would be more difficult in this particular situation during this year than it will later become. I don't really feel that there is a need to give up entirely on this and that there will be no explanation for the development in a way that is then scheduled to be quarterly and annually based on the laws on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u76	The language is Icelandic, and the last speaker spoke of a progressian tax system, which Google tells me could be translated as a progressive tax system. The Senator builds his fist, but he is not angry with it. He is very pleased with it, so it is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steeringrimur J. Sigfússon is a great deal for his speech, and he comes up first to answer what she said about his lack of familiarity with the figures I mentioned on the growth reform system. I'll send him a link to the report of the World Bank Fund published in November 2015, which says that in 2013 13% of households received interest, and the average payment in that year was 286,000. The average domestic income was 6.1 million. But he reached all the way up to 19.8 million. K. in total income. Then we're here, I think, pretty good for what is generally considered the average household income. It presents ideas that were presented to the work group on the forward arrangements for housing and were introduced to a house - to - house group that was already in progress. A senator was the financial minister himself, the merged with a growth reform system, and a building reform system in one system, which saw the total domestic status of income and position rather than the debt of the people. In regard to the financial agenda, we will see how man is still considering the possibility of creating a whole system of housing improvements. I also want to agree strongly with the senator on the importance of continuing to build up the general apartment system. Of course, I disagree with the part of financial programs, where it turns out that people do not recognize the importance of helping people to find housing, if they are interested and able, need to continue to support the homes that have been mentioned among the hands, and that are the rent - out homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u78	Mr. President. We'll face it better. I made a review of the classes of litigation that turn to a welfare committee and sent them to a financial committee, where I took special care of the housing support and the factors and criticized them very much and presented the lack of money that seems to be available to me, even though only the plans made by men with some 2,300 apartments. In terms of growth reforms and financial programmes, only the phrases used in the form of cryopreserved values. We know what that means. This means that in the years to come, the growth process will develop even more severe, just total low - paying satisfaction, but more is rising to lower average wages or average wages and the same trend seems to be offered in child reforms. I'm not surprised that these sounds come from the AGS. I've known for a long time that they'd like these systems to be a total help to the poor, some small-time help to all, to all, to the worst-cased children and all, to all, to everyone, the worst of all, to the owners of the apartment. I'm not there. We can always talk about how this is going to die with increasing income or growing possessions. That's the way it is, isn't it? It is both property and income-related and a small matter as the situation improves. There's always disk discharge. But especially regarding my child's welfare, I don't think it's a good idea that they should turn into a small help for everyone, the worst of all the children in the country. I did not accept such things and would have thought that the lovers of the special policy wanted to keep on a growth reform system that would help with income - stricken people who are going and trying to make a home. That's why I've never properly understood that the Independence Party is so demonized. I thought that he would view it as part of the post on the special policy of helping only in interest of interest, but perhaps more reluctant about rent payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u79	A respectable president. Also, there were other things I stopped to do only in my speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I think it's important to remember that numbers that I specifically wanted to be taken together and published regularly, and the national records have been doing that, are turning around to monitor the number of the first buyers. We see that the ratio of the first buyers has advanced to the last figures measured before failure and has become very comparable to those seen in many countries around us. Clearly, then, people are buying homes, but the problem has been that we have not built enough housing. I also want to reiterate what I said here, and I know that we what we were. A senator agrees on how important it is for us to continue putting money into the general apartment system. Despite having an agreement with the labor movement over a period of five years, we need to continue building. With the rise now, in view of rising prices, more construction costs, we watch that each year the overall investment should be around 16 billion. If we take it over this five - year period, it's about 80 billion. If we then add two billion who were added each year to our rent money, I look back and think that it's exactly where we've been caring for all homes, not just those with my own housing but those who have tenants. That is what I have found one of the most tragic aspects of the financial program that made it clear to the government's declaration that they will stop when the agreement expires. That's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u80	Mr. President. It is true that we have seen some increase in our early shopping habits. Let us be careful that we thus have some balance in these matters. Let us not forget the gathering and the needs that were filled up and that we have built up rivers, safe rivers, in their parents'homes. So hopefully there will be some time when the ratio of first purchases goes quite high and maybe then lowers and keeps looking for equilibrium again. This must, in effect, be done if these proportions are to remain decent in the long run. I don't back up with the only inch that the difference in the situation is growing, and this kind of law adds to it for reasons I've already reasoned. I agree with what. A senator, and we are, that it is extremely important to keep at least a lamp in the construction of 600 apartments, or so each year in a broad, manageable tenacious tenet system, thinking of meeting the needs of the earners, the two most harvested fifths, as arranged. There are so many reasons, including the ones we've been here to talk about. This will only reduce the situation, yet there is the possibility of a reasonably manageable rented house, that part of the group. That's because we also see a number of developments here that I believe are very important in working against, making a balanced contrast. It's an invasion of real estate society, financial institutions, into the flat market. They are doing so for profit. More important, self - interest agencies and others like them offer alternatives. It's the growth of tourism, and now I'm not supposed to, after this warning president, say that in a foreign language I was going to say - we're not supposed to translate it into AirBogB, i.e. that apartments rented out in airBogB will clear some of the apartments in the market. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] For these and many other reasons, this and many other factors must not slack off.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u81	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on support to buy at the first apartment and more. There are other things in this package, but as mentioned in the talks. The members of Parliament are making changes in a case submitted to the last elected period during the time of the Agency's Commission and the Independence Party. The bill for the first estate laid out three ways that a court official or someone making use of resources can choose between a provision of the additional fee. These include: The assessment of the cumulative cost of buying at the first apartment; a warrant to set up an additional tax on the head of a loan guaranteed by mortgage in the first apartment over ten years of continuous periods and, finally, a warrant for an additional payment on unsecured loan guaranteed by a bet of the first apartment paid on its head seat. In a report and presentation of the bill submitted during the last term and adopted by the General Assembly, the percentage of young people in the tenet period increased substantially from 12% to 31% between 2005 and 2014. At the same time, a report and a presentation shows that people between the ages of 25 and 23 are much more likely to live in parents'homes today than a decade ago. These are figures from the time of the first real estate premieres during the last terms. The demand for smaller apartments had increased dramatically in the years leading up to the cost of housing, but the smallest property had increased more proportionately and more than twice that of special living since 2009. These first estate costs should contribute to a healthy debt ratio of households and increase investment capacity while supporting the money policy by reducing the value of securable loans. Freedom of choice was the key and authority to the use of tax-free personal savings because of the cost of first estate is independent of loan. This plan was available to all who paid or who would pay for their special property at the time and who had not owned an apartment before. The approval of these laws at the General Assembly that I have been witnessing regarding the purchase of first estate was suggested that resources that were already in force for the use of special property savings to reduce the capital of real estate loans be extended by two years. It suggested that individuals who had already begun collection of pay for building an apartment building for their own use on the basis of the current provision for temporary purposes in the terms of life insurance and pension management, but who had not been authorized for July 1, 2017, would be authorized to transfer their acquired rights and use them on the basis of the bill if they were to purchase their first apartment. It was also suggested that the rights of the rights, which had already been used on the basis of the provisional regulations and following the events arranged for pay on the head of real estate loans taken in connection with the building of an apartment building would allow continued use of his additional fee to cover the loan until the ten - year - long term of the bill. The source took on those who were buying their first home. The main aspects of the law change at this time in the terms of buying a first apartment are the support of those who are buying their first apartment. The amount of resources required lasts for ten years and allows for the provision of special savings that has been made during a set period of time to buy their first apartment. The options allow the provision of special savings to the mortgage guaranteed by mortgages in the first apartment or by purchase. The amount of money that you can use may be used to protect your household. The special savings used by means of a head chair lends according to experiences that pay off from the purchases of the first apartments is tax-free. A respectable president. During the forwarding period, the country's choice of farm shape was highly established. Hence, to help people buy homes, they were working to present a bill on their first estate. There were bills and bills passed that have become legal to support housing partners. Also approved were local rented laws that were aimed at improving rent safety and were fully in line with the government's actions at this time, which was thinking of all homes, rent homes, or rented families, families living in housing communities and families, or individuals living in their own homes. The law on the common rented apartments was a huge case. During a certain period of time, the salute was on some 2,300 apartments. These were the biggest steps that had been taken for decades in building a ten - year - long ten - year lease system in this country in order to improve rent safety and to make sure that people would not always have to be moving. Also, during the last terms in which housing support was given to a large number of people in the home, large changes were made in the quality of the housing system during the last terms. These primary provisions for housing were designed to balance housing support, these two different forms of interest, and were reimbursed. As mentioned in speeches, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Hardydó, we also had the bill on first estate and were trying to look to the once owned group who lost their home in a financial breakdown. The work we went to during the last terms, unfortunately, we did not succeed. Because we even had to. To see how the options we discuss here, the first real estate, would work, in fact,. Then came the expression "what is bad. " paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the traveller's suggestion here, that this is one of the points he would be willing to consider in the case of the committee. I am delighted that this bill has the will to see how we can cope with the individuals who lost their property and who want to get back into the special market. I'd like to encourage you. Senators on hold. The Economic and Business Committee to take a very close look at this in the progress of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u82	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of foreigners in regard to exchange students in high school. The bill is one article that reads this way by permission of the president: It is mandatory to grant deposit to foreign exchange students under this directive to meet the criteria of 2 mg. If they come to the country of approved exchange students, they may be removed from the 1st mg age range. ; and a requirement for a university degree. It adds a warrant for granting residence to foreign exchange students if they arrive on the behalf of established exchange organizations and they deviate from the conditions of the law today for a 18 - year age limit. It is clear that the Lawgiver's will was not to deviate from previous projects regarding foreign exchange students who come here to live and study in high school, but in comments about the laws on foreigners, it is precisely stated that there is no change from the present arrangement. It also says that study is a continuous university study, which, of course, does not lead to a high school education. Therefore, it is necessary to make a change and to give clear permission for the release of a relic for exchange students who come to the country by established exchange cells and are conducting full-time studies in high school. I suggest that the case be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u83	A respectable president. I think it's hard to say that I'm opposed to what's happened. A member of the council where I am one of the representatives of the case as a member of the General and Education Committee. But I would like to come up here and hear the position of the head of the General and Education Committee on a point that I mentioned when we were doing this issue about which other factors she thought would be a reason to look at the change in the alien law and maybe limit only, because it's a natural big law, which is particularly about what we can do to help the young people come to this country either, as it is meant to be, as switchers or even for temporary work. It was set up a set of regulations to open to so-called 'working today' agreements with other countries. We've been far behind our neighboring nations on making such agreements - I don't think there's one deal that's still been made when all around us are treatable nations, such as. Australia and New Zealand - who gave young people the opportunity to go and work temporarily and then come back. Similarly, Australians and New Zealand may come here. Then there's another thing that I think it would be important for the committee to do well with the Ministry, that the more popular part of the changes made in the alien law was that people were being able to expand their chances of coming here and working, which is then outside the EEA. Now we have seen and heard and read daily about political conditions in the United States. It has just been heard that there is considerable interest, e.g. from the educational community in the United States, they are to consider moving to other countries, perhaps more liberal in their views and more liberal communities. The Canadians have felt this only. I'd like to ask you, would there be something that could be considered more carefully, what could we do to attract well - educated and hot people from countries like the United States? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, here we are just discussing a slight change that was not to be needed, but that can, of course, happen in such much work and such a broad solidarity when we changed entire legislation in that way and were fixed with the alien law during the last term. For more changes as a boy. A senator comes in, though I don't think it's necessary to go through them right away. I think it's very important to have experience with these laws, but we need to be very open to stand equal in other countries to get young people here, especially like a dog. A senator mentions, from the educational community. I am willing to work to improve the situation. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Assurable Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter very much for her answer. I know, for example, that it may be necessary to make small changes that could even have had major consequences on legislation. That is why there was a fine position on the Committee to provide this change, so that exchange students 16◯18 could continue to come here, get to know us, and possibly settle here. I hope that a General and Education Committee will further encourage the Ministry to proceed well, in cooperation with the Department of Health at Work, what opportunities are there, what we can do to attract people to a country that could promote the university community, and who could, indeed, be of great support to the newly formed sceptres here. Similarly with regard to younger people, that we could press that there will be a chance of making the so-called 'working principles'. In this regard I have already mentioned two countries, Australia and New Zealand, and I know that men were looking at Japan and they were getting along pretty good about it. How fascinating it would be for young people to go there and get to know a very different culture in a wonderful society! The same matters were discussed with the Canadians. So we take advantage of the opportunities both between Europe and other parts of the world to get to know other cultures, and those individuals, their citizens, and their countries can come here too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for opening this discussion because I think we've improved a lot with the alien law given during the last term. I think we need to keep a close eye on how they work. There we opened up a number of other factors, experts, and others. Now we need to focus more on young intellectuals. I'm excited to take that discussion. Of course it can. The General and Education Committee discussed these matters, and perhaps it is more realistic to do so at the beginning of a new council in the fall, i.e. to discuss what steps we would take to the Ministry when looking at these issues and what steps we could take quickly regarding agreements like this. It is clear to everyone that there are more young people here who can make society more diverse and useful to us in our community and elsewhere. Let us all be positive about that. I thank a senator for this input.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u87	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a bill to correct the changes in the law on foreigners from the General Information and Education Committee. Actually, I was not present at the committee meeting where the case was settled, but I am the nature of the case as it is being carried out by legal correction. However, I would like to agree with the fact that for the third time since I sat down at a council that was only seven months ago, we are changing these laws because of some correction. We set up temporary regulations just before Christmas. Shortly after the assembly, a minister arranged for a bill to correct a print error, as she said. Today, we are still correcting the mistakes of those total laws, which are not even now a year old. It makes you put question marks in the quality of law. I was on a lecture at Director Arnþórsson Arnhorson about the other day, where he'd put together numbers about it. One of the measures he seemed to be able to use to measure the quality of law was to see how often the law was changed in the first few years after their sentence. I don't think Haukur would give us a very high grade for being now correcting the total alien law for the third time. Besides, this isn't even the only case. As I say, I've been here seven months and I can name a few. Without thinking about it for a very long time, I think of a law on courts that we had to change here earlier in the winter and now again have a bill about at council. On both occasions, we're changing the law because the law somehow did not have enough control over the system to be introduced by a new interjugation level, the land's rights. It is not very encouraging to be introduced either a new total law or a new intermediate level, and then after that, in the direction of the council or the Ministry, that the system needs to be changed because they forgot to assume that the committee of qualified judges had improved to evaluate relevant candidates for national rights. That's what we did in the past year. Or, like here, where somehow accidentally forgot to think of the group that has for years been given residence clearance in Iceland and somehow fell between ships and docks. So I'm not just knocking on the State Department and now the Justice Department, there are other examples, bills about deforestation and land healing, which we pointed out at cover one. that it would have been refreshingly washed to report to the forestry bill that we were here dealing with land - healing laws, and vice versa. So I'm not going to say trust, but I'm not gonna feel safe when I get into the hands of a large law group and we know that within a year we might have to act three times, as in this case, in order to fix mistakes made somewhere along the way, made through a ministry and a assembly without having to be found. What a solution I don't know. Foreign law, e.g. 125 articles in such a way that it may be reasonable to have taken a long time to test them. Induction of the National Court of Justice is also a complex task. We may need to be more careful. We need to strengthen the conversation between counsel and assembly. We need to develop expertise within the council in order to study the laws we want to introduce. I don't want to be on it before this year's end to recording any of the songs that we're going to accept before the end of the council because we haven't done enough because we've run into some sort of system error, like, Forget about foreign exchange students who have come to the country for that reason. We need to be more careful if laws last. If so, we are not necessarily talking about decades; first, let them stand for a year without our having to change them. and see if we can make them even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u88	Madam President. I don't intend to extend the discussion much, but I have to come up here and agree with every word I have. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was right about this, especially that we need to work harder. I'd like to mention a few more examples. Once again, we're going to fix a man-of-a-bitch law where there's some evil error inside. There was a lot of work to be done on where things worked, since we were so busy getting them out of the council. I think there was quite a bit more support for the council members, the committees, and the Ministry to do things well. I think it's fascinating for the council that we're investing in more manpower and increasing support to members of the council and the council as a whole in order to be more successful and to be more effective when this sort of legislation goes through. I'll present to you the minority opinion of the General and Education Committee in another language, in which law was not quite sophisticated. I will discuss it further in the next discussion when there will be a law on passports where a serious error would infiltrate the bill. Instead of merely accepting the mistake and putting forth the matter again, which could have been quite possible, it was decided to continue with the wrong report. So I add a little something to a talk. We also need to be a little more diligent in respecting our own tactics and what we run through during this council when we see that there's a problem and we know it's not right, that we don't allow some sort of thing to go through that's not well done, in the name of some sort of convenience or time vision or the sort of thing that has nothing to do with the legal counsel. It is also sometimes a matter of looking inwards to see what we are ready to accept at this assembly when we know that we are missing. In these last days of this assembly, we should be very concerned with all of us, since some malicious error will no doubt come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u89	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a commission on a bill to legalize a policy on passports, no. 136/1998, with subsequent changes, a passport production contract. This opinion comes from a major part of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been Bryndís by Brunci Helgadóttir from the Ministry of Justice, Skúli Þór Kári from the Department of Transport and National Affairs and the Inga Helga Sveinsdóttir Ólafsson and the Guðni Rúnar Gíslason of Iceland. There were no reviews. The bill suggests changes in passport laws so that Iceland's National Registry will be authorized to negotiate a passport and their manufacturing system for a longer period than five years, to a maximum of ten years. The bill suggests that the Allied Council approves of the Iceland National Publications Index to negotiate a passport and a passport manufacturing system for a longer period than five years in accordance with 2 mg. 40. g. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, like 4 mg. 40. g. Same song. The committee found that Iceland's National Publications Index has for some time been prepared for purchases on passports and for the renewal of a passport production system. The current production system owned by Iceland's National Records has arrived at its own age. If used, it is necessary to make extensive investments in order to change it because of new passport books to ensure that it will last. Security requirements. Furthermore, the Committee discussed the importance of determining the overall policy on issues relating to buying or renting systems for subsidiary and requiring the approval of the General Assembly. The report on the bill shows that it has the legal authority to provide shopping for passport books and renting a manufacturing system for the publishing of passports in the European Economic Areas. However, the committee found that, in effect, the plan is to buy the system and negotiate with the contractors to pay it over eight years. The majority stress that there is a problem with the job and regret that this information has not been used in the treatment of the problem, leading to 1st. The council on the bill was wrong. However, the majority state that the wording of the law reaches rent or buys the production system anyway. The majority of the countries believe that it is important that Iceland's national passports will be updated and met with all security conditions. The majority of them consider it necessary to start a post-sentence process as soon as possible. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. As a result, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, author Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Pawel Bartoszek, Arnardóttir Lara Eagledótir, and Iðunn Garðarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u90	Madam President. In this matter of passports, I present to you the minority opinion of the General and Education Committee and recommend it here. The ensuing bill suggests that Iceland's National Registry will be authorized to negotiate a passport and their manufacturing system for a longer period than five years, to a maximum of ten years. According to a bill report, Iceland's National Publications Index is expected to rent a new system for the manufacture of passports to at least Eight years old, after the sale. This option will bring at least costs, ensure good service, limit risk to production and meet the security criteria. The 1st. The Parliament on the bill declared to the Minister of Justice that the more practical method of renting a new system to at least Eight years old rather than changing the existing system. This would mean a minimum cost, a good service, a limited risk of production, and a meeting all security conditions, but a high number of passports were required. By this means it was felt that the Icelandic State could meet the requirements for international passports to be produced. The committee found that the system had not yet been rented but should be bought and paid over an eight - year period. A minority of the General and Education Committee does not consider to be worthy of being referred to the case 2nd. because the report is wrong and the debate over the bill has been presented incorrectly. It is not possible to change your bill's report without being submitted again. It doesn't matter whether the law itself does not specify whether to rent or to buy. The bill's report describes the lawgiver's will and is used as a legal solution in the interpretation of the law. Since the current report does not reflect the will of the Lawgiver, the bill is defective in the present picture. On law No. 116/2016, on the change in social security laws, social assistance laws, and the laws on the subjects of the elderly, with subsequent changes, made the mistake that a law was placed in a law that granted pensioners rights beyond the will of the Lawgiver. This mistake was later corrected by law No. 9/2017, change of social security law, with subsequent changes. Thus, in the treatment of this case, the will of the counselgiver was clear, and the evidence was used as a basis for justifying retrospective legislation, which responsibly impairs the rights of the pensioner, as well as the implementation of government insurance agencies, not to legalize for two months in the payment of pension. Thus, it is important to maintain harmony in jobs and handling at the General Assembly and to show respect for the role that has been outlined in the legal process. The minority is certainly important that Iceland's National Registry be authorized by law to ensure that the passports used are at any given time in line with all key security requirements. On the other hand, we cannot see why the bill was not undone when the above mistakes were made, and the bill presented with the correct paper that reflected the Lawgiver's will to select the most practical means of rent or purchase. There has been no sound evidence as to why that passage had not gone away. A smaller part of the General and Education Committee does not consider the proposed treatment to be a pattern and rather fall to undermine the credibility of the General Assembly and provide the Commission with a measure of support for the obvious neglect of legal action. The credibility of the Generals deserves better. Under this minority opinion, the one standing here and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u91	Madam President. A representative of the left green in the General and Education Committee is writing under the majority opinion in this case. We have reason to believe that national records offer passports to provide services to the public in order to obtain these essential data. However, as noted in the case of the two, I may also discuss the process of this matter. Ævarsdóttir Þórhildur have to admit that I feel so embarrassed that I'm blushing. We've had 1st around here. We ministers, mostly as to whether it would be more practical for the state to buy these devices rather than rent them, as the bill says, and the minister has been fed on the wrong information. If I'm embarrassingly blushing, I can imagine how the Minister feels about being sent here with a handmade report from the Ministry. This is an unpleasant procedure by the European Commission and something I expect to be considered within the Ministry. I'm not excited that this repeats, that a bill with a bill is literally on its head, that rent is actually spoken of in terms of pay. Then I'd like to mention how pleasant inconsistencies sometimes appear in the issue of filming within the council and which is not, the wording may hides our view. Here's a bill for contracting passports. Madam President, this is the bill that the government can buy printers and paper, a highly specialized printer and a highly specialized security paper, but the foundation is it. It is a printer who, along with the paper cost of an eight - year period, costs about a billion dollars. In the big context, it's not so much, it's 120 million or so a year, but it seems that it's a big deal enough to come to the castle while a matter that some might consider even more important, such as whether or not to allow private students to take over a public high school, is not to get any of the AlCollis stamps in three discussions like whether a national record can buy a new printer. This interpretation is also something that must take into account a thorough opinion, prospective at the Department of Economic Affairs and Fundamental Affairs, because the reason this bill was presented is that the Ministry interprets laws on government finance, so that treaties committed to the State over five years are that it must be brought to the Generals. There are a small number of contracts in the government, all contracts on housing like that. I remember it was now the highest. One prime minister, who at some point was in connection with the introduction of public financial law, gave an example of the fact that some golf clubs were always knocking on a budget when the budget was over and the highest time the committee would get into arguing about whether the club should receive half a million or 700 thousand that year. A government financial law would be designed to remove this small regime from the Council so that the General would be merely laying the big lines. If the case is that the government's laws on government finance require that all the institutions of this bank be committed to renting housing for more than five years, I think we have come a long way from the goal of government law on public finance that the Congress is not covering over the details of institutions. I really don't care about this case, that it takes the Senate clearance to buy printers and paper. Then I'd like to reflect on what was done by the Commission on whether this bill that is here is also a reflection of the strictness of financial planning. We've seen this when we've seen figures in the language field on which a national file is on that there's not much room for anything to be created. Thus, the single cost of this volume of billions spent by the printer would be a small challenge on the framework of the topic field. Then I wonder, Mr. President, isn't that all right? Is not the State really in a position to add up the box when it comes to making investments for a billion dollars in new equipment, and can you bring it together next year? Or is there some hereticism about how this frame is equipped to care for public expenses, so that not even this small sample of national records remain within it? Then I look forward not only to seeing institutions not only when they make contracts for more than five years, it would be a long line now, but also when they are investing in larger necessary things that cannot be obtained from the Ministry of State or the Ministry of finance. I would like to reiterate our position in the left green that this matter can, although there are details about it, without any warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u92	A respectable president. I sincerely apologize for not being prepared for this fine affair right now. The case represents the bill of a change in land cover and economic law. Here's the opinion of why. Foreign Affairs. Under that view, publications are written. Councilmen: Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir Sólnardótttir Sóln Sóln Sóln Sóln Sóln Sólnardólrótir, Brynjólfsdóttir Brjornóttir, Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir, Ásta BjörnEinarsson and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. The committee was contacted by the Ministry of State by Matthías Geir Pálsson, but no comment was received on the bill. The bill suggests three changes in land cover, economic history, and land base laws. As noted in a committee article, the matter is handled by members of the committee. So the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u93	A respectable president. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Erna Hjaltested and by the Guðbjörg of Eva Baldursdóttir of Economic and Economic Affairs, Dr. Tynes Sif Tynes, Dr. Jana Júlíusdóttir, and Rúnar Örn Olsenur of the Economic Affairs and Ólafur Ásgeirsson of Reitun ehf. There were reviews from the SEC, Reitun ehf. ... andcompanyoffinanceof finance. The bill suggests that Regulation (EC) No. 1040/2009 on credit firms, they're going to go to the local law. The Regulation contains regulations for the function of credit-making companies, including on interest issues, transparency, registration and monitoring, and the use of credit tools. The bill also contains regulations for the implementation of the Regulation, such as monitoring, information administration and violations. The European Union stock market will monitor the implementation of the Regulation in the European Union, along with the administrative authorities of the Member States. In recording the Regulation of the Convention on the European Economic Area, adaptation was made to hide the EFTA monitoring facility into the main embassies of authority belonging to the European Commission. However, it is expected that the EU stock market will have considerable access to decisions made by the EFTA Monitoring Centre and will be cared for, including to a considerable extent, their expert preparation. A greater part of the Commission stresses the need for the EFTA monitoring agency to make independent decisions on the basis of the Regulation, but not entirely dependent on the European Topic Centre's expertise, the aims of two key sources of the European monitoring system's uptake in the financial market of the European Economic Area should be met. In 1st. 2.g. The bill is submitted to Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 1060/2009 with subsequent changes will be given adaptation standards as determined by the Joint EEA Committee. Two. The same articles are suggested that the decisions of the joint EEA committee should also be legal. In view of the greater part, it is sufficient that the Regulation to adapt according to decisions made by the joint EEA committee should be legalized but unnecessary to legalize the whole decision. So the majority suggest 2nd. 2.g. The bill will fall away, but it will be referred to in the paragraph to the EEA extension at the European Commission News of 1st. The article. 2nd and 3rd. Section 3. The bill will advise on the permission of the EFTA and the SEC to use administrative fines due to violations of the regulations of the Regulation. The majority suggest that they be referred to the SEC at sections 4, 5, 8 and 8. The article will explain that the paragraphs apply only to the fines decided by the FEC rather than to the fines laid by the EFTA Institute of Observation. 5 mg. Section 3. The bill says that at the decision of the management ticket, the board should include: taking into account all relevant events. The majority suggest that the acronym of acronym, for example, will end with the fine decision no other than any significant event, should be taken into account. Six. Section 3. The bill says that if the government's fines are not paid within a month of the decision made by the F.A., the price of the fine should be paid a bit of weight. The majority suggest that the weight growth of the management fines will not be resolved until after one month after the decision of the individual to make a guilt. By means of the words "gentle men " and" field exams " at 1 mg. Section 4. The bill refers to the measures discussed in Article 1. 23rd par. c and 23rd par. d Regulation (EC) No 37/2010 1060/2009. To illustrate, the greater portion is suggested to be referred to the regulations of the Regulation. In the 5th and 6th. The bill discusses information at European monitoring institutions and institutions in the European Economic Area. In view of the indications in the review of the UN, a greater proportion is suggested to refer further to the current official legislation on the European financial monitoring system on the topic. Suggesting the Ministry of Economics and Economics contributes to the 9th. The bill will be supplemented with a warrant for the SEC to set rules based on technical monitoring standards based on Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 1060/2009. Reitun ehf. suggested that the execution of the law be postponed for 12 months or that there should be temporary release from the law. Protocol (EC) No. 1060/2009, of 2009, was included in the 2012 European Economic Area Convention. Standards (EU) No. 513/2011 and 462/2013 are of 2011 and 2013 and were included in the European Economic Area Convention in September 2016. So the reaction of the bill is considerable. Iceland is committed by the European Economic Convention to implement the Regulation and is responsible for improving the quality of credit tools, thus trusting in financial markets. So most of the money doesn't suggest a change of the law's taking effect. Other forms of change explain themselves. The greater part suggests that the bill will be adopted by the adjustment made in a special Senate document. I hereby refer to the case 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u94	Madam President. Hv. A senator and head of the greater part, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, carefully reviewed the contents of this bill, which is suggested in Regulation EB No. In Icelandic law, a credit rating company will be obtained. As we have considered, this is a bill on the activity of credit tools, surveillance, information, and infrastructure. I'd like to say that smaller things agree with the main objectives of the bill, which, like any prime project belonging to the extensive financial monitoring system, are about strengthening the European financial market and strengthening monitoring of the work. I don't see reason to swerve the views that have been previously expressed on the benefits of the surveillance, whether we believe that this will bring the desired results. We agree with our goals, but I think that in the years ahead, we need to assess all the increased emphasis on the European law frames and regulations and whether we believe that this will bring in the desired goals or whether we believe that this will have a physical impact on how financial activity is being run in the European economy, e.g. by means of shadow banking and other factors that need to be considered. I believe that even though much has already been introduced, there is no way to see the end of this discussion. However, what this view is about is not the goals we agree on but, rather, that this bill is like the rest of the monitoring system based on the two established EU and European Free Trade Association (EFTs). The European Union stock market, the EUMA, oversees the implementation of the Regulation within the EU as well as the national monitoring institutions. Within EFTA, however, it is the EFTA or ESA monitoring facility that is responsible for this role as well as for the national monitoring facilities. However, the EUMA will largely handle the technical preparation of all decisions, although ESA is the formal candidate. The majority of the committees emphasized that it is important to observe that ESAs make formal decisions. However, I find it important to point out that since the EFTA countries started the induction of the surveillance system, ESAs have hired one employee to perform the tremendously increased role involved in the implementation of regular tasks in the European Economic Area where ESAs are actually to be met by all the new European monitoring institutions. One employee has been hired suggesting that ESAs will be dependent on the European monitoring institutions for specific knowledge. This may be the first point I want to make. The second point of the memory part here is that all types currently introduced into Icelandic law and that the European financial monitoring system is significant. I don't need to have that many words, since many talks were held that there is real doubt that this expeditation is a constitution where there is not a law on the execution of authority in a limited field. This was dealt with last autumn when we discussed a synopsis that is the foundation of all these laws here. This, of course, applies to the rest of them. So these are, in fact, two points we would like to present, on the other hand, the terms of the constitution and the entitlement of authority, and the way we feel that this two solid solution is really possible. So, in the memory of the section at the end of our evaluation, we say that it is important to consider how well-designed the EFTA countries are to ensure independent decision-making within the ESA. This is a discussion that needs to be conducted within the EFTA Committee, to review whether we really believe that ESAs are in place. As well as in many respects, there is a tremendous new role to the Agency. It may be that the EFTA countries need to give her more attention now that these new challenges are faced. Madam President. I've finished my business, but I'd like to finally say that, with this opinion, Katrín Jakobsdóttir and Rósa Björn Brynjólfsdóttir, representing the Left Green of the World Economic and Business Committee of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u95	A respectable president. I want to say something. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, of the need to strengthen ESAs in order to maintain her independence in decision making. There must be enough expertise in all the changes in financial activities that now take place, so I take my mind to whatever comments are made in the matter. Senator. I believe, though, that the solution presented by two sources and approved by the last council should be available. However, it is that the EFTA Committee and EFTA members should be very alert to this development and be prepared to strengthen ESAs and be very closely aware that these institutions can make independent decisions. A respectable president. I think the whole thing as a whole is good. There's regulations and plots related to the credit firms. For the worldwide financial breakdown, there was a serious shortage. The effects of these enterprises have been significant and have made quite a mistake in the past. Then I don't have to say that it won't be that way in the future, but I believe that with this increased order, they're more involved. I think it'll be a good thing for the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad we agree that it's important to make sure that ESAs have the means and resources to perform this important role that has been entrusted to them by a two - sided solution. The solution was the only practical way to introduce the motherwork which is based on all this European monitoring system, although it is my opinion and memory at the General Assembly that it does not support what we believe is in our constitution as to authority. Hv. A senator speaks of the credit firms. It's true that they're now under a lot of careful surveillance, and I made that clear in my language, and we agree on the goal of the bill. I'd like to say, though, we must also wonder that the creditors are enormously powerful organizations that have never been determined to receive all the power that they have actually taken into the international financial market. They have taken great power. They have had the key authority to actually determine the fate of the nations and the fate of companies by their decisions. That's one of the important things I think it's important for the politicians to talk, they're discussed in different parts of Europe, i.e. that we're ensuing a surveillance system to get ties into a market that got out of line after he's been decommissioned and all given free because everything was meant to be self-employed and the market was supposed to solve the situation itself. Therefore, I mentioned that it is also important to evaluate the results of the regulation, for we need, of course, to consider the actual effects of this rule. What real effect will it have? What will it switch, e.g. for the authority status of the credit companies? It is a task that awaits us, a large and vast discussion. But I'm just saying we'll never be able to relax about what the financial market looks like right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u97	Madam President. I'm not going to keep my number long here, but I'm going to tear the head of the Committee's opinion on the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee's opinion and went over the basics of this review and also the objections to what. paritaprevir Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir. As we have seen, this case is a good one in its entirety. It is part of a post-mortem review of the financial system in Europe, where regulations and surveillance have been expanded, etc. Then it is imperative that we stop for a moment and wonder what values we are going to achieve in the process of this work and what views are being expressed in this introduction to a clear and clear rule of action, which is always good at all, especially after a disaster such as the economic breakdown. I also wondered, as indicated in the Committee's panel, my section of the Economic and Business Committee at the end, how often there are sources of authority, how often it happens when we're ensuing here fine types that we must always be careful whether or not to deliver authority clearances, and whether there is a vote. I think there's a fair harmony among members of the Council now that we need a little more careful consideration of this information, which often comes up and repeated, and has been given many talks and reports. I think we need to start thinking seriously about going a little bit, if I let myself blow up here, wondering why these reflections and jobs. I know it's done in some aspect of the council. In terms of the independent decisions within the ESA, and how well-dressed are the EFTA countries, I also allow me to use this opportunity to challenge the better preparation of the Allied Council of Iceland to follow those issues at earlier levels when we bring in this Regulation, especially on such important matters that concern our financial systems. I think we should look at ourselves and focus on strengthening the administrations and the introduction to these matters in the past, so we here in the Senate are better prepared to make informed decisions based on the induction and may protect the politics of this country, but may be beyond the rush of the council. As we have seen in the committee study of my section, we feel that the whole matter is good. It's part of a bigger review, but we put a specific reserve on the whole case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u98	Madam President. I recommend the Committee on a bill to correct a change in the laws on the treatment of customers that depend on specific restrictions on panels. 811. The bill suggests changes to two layers of the treatment of crowns that depend on the specific limitations. On one hand, a warrant is recommended at 2 mg. 1 1. The laws to take into account on specific restrictions will no longer be passed on to the capitals of Iceland, but only to inform the bank. However, it is suggested that the maximum individual concentration should be determined on a 3 mg basis. Section 12. The law goes up from 1 billion. K. into 100 million. K. The Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be approved. Under the words of Óli Björn Kárason, and why. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, who was absent from the case but whose writings are considered to be under the authority of the fourth mg. 18th par. The regulations of the Council of the United States, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Brabbur Brynjar's Níelsson, Jón Páldor Valdimarsson, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred, and Rosak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölóttir. However, I would like to assume that last night the Commission received a tip from Iceland's Secret Bank on the wording and change in the bill. I suggest that the case be referred to the 3rd. and take a position on the indications provided by Iceland's Federal Council of Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u99	Madam President. I would like to recommend a proposal for action plan on energy exchange. There was an excellent agreement on the job board on the subject. Here are a few adjustments. All professionals in the pro board will be considered to sign, but the one here and why. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson has a warning focus on ensuring that this strategy is sufficiently funded. It is a great and extensive matter and ambitions for us as a nation. I'm going to make an account for the Committee on the Job Road. The committee was contacted by a number of visitors who I am not going to list, but this is an article in the Committee. Most of the people who sent the commission welcomed the proposal and had developed it. In the proposal, a minister who handles energy and resource use issues will be assigned to work on energy exchange by reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the share of renewable energy sources. The following guides are requested: To aim for the use of renewable energy sources in all areas, to provide economic criteria that will contribute to energy exchange and energy saving and to develop a targeted framework of needed infrastructures to ensure energy exchange progress. It should also be guided to work systematically on energy saving, to ensure cooperation, and to promote cooperation with measures involved in energy exchange and saving, as well as to promote research, technology and development, and other activities associated with renewable energy sources. The energy exchange management programme reaches the year 2030 and should be reassessed every five years. It is expected that within the next five years the measures will be completed and will be set apart according to economic inducers or similar factors, whether the procedure is considered for infrastructure or is part of policies, regulations and research. For every action specified there is a requirement for which organisation or institutions are responsible. Since the responsibility of the individual actions of the programme is on the hands of several members, institutions, or advisers, the committee feels that it is clear who supervises each procedure or individual aspects of it. The management committee discussed what would best encourage energy exchange. It was claimed that the most targeted way to reduce fossil fuel use and to change driving vehicles is to use taxation to encourage the use of ecological energy. The committee considers it important to seek ways to interfere with behavior, while taking into account the general economy. There may be additional requirements for buying public contacts, e.g. to renew the vehicle fleet and provide the Commission with a modification form in this respect which will be further explained later in view. It was noted that the largest buyer of vehicles was a rental, and with the will, it would be possible to make it easier for them to buy as the most energy efficient automobiles to rent to tourists. This was discussed in the context of the need for access to energy for the public and the company. Therefore, the introduction of the transport and diffuse systems would need to be updated at the rhythm of electrical energy, with increased electricalization. It was claimed that with increased transport electricalization, electricity output would be more emphasise. The value of the 2030 to date is considered a short period of time in relation to the period in the development of electricity transport systems that are thought to be decades into the future. The committee agrees with the need for the strengthening of the electrical transport system. Although the committee considers the purpose of the plan to be positive in many ways, there are oversteps in many areas. The lack of measurable goals may first be mentioned, as well as the lack of awareness of how much action is intended to reduce emissions and contribute to Iceland's ability to meet its goals in Paris conventions. On the one hand, there is a shortage of earmarks for specific procedures. This is particularly shocking, since it does not take place in a financial program for 2018-022 how funds will be distributed to individual projects. Third, a strategy like this needs to be used in the light of other policies and programmes in the same area, i.e. Government policies onlining electrical lines, the national protection and energy use programme, and the general government policy on electricity use. The Commission considers the target of a 10% share of renewable energy transport by 2020 to be too low. A realistic goal would be 12% due to rapid development, including hydrogen cars, as well as the possibility of domestic production of methadone, methadone and biodisil. For the same reason, the 2030's should be a 50% goal. Achieving green impulse is important, and it is similar, but economic measures such as direct and powerful financial support for projects that lead to energy exchange are equally important. This is especially true in the work programme but also in the field of research and development. As a result, early development projects are essential. Main infrastructures that need to be built up for energy exchange turn to power stations, more metal stations, hydrogen stations, and electrical plugs, both at airports and at ports. The Commission agrees with the aim of the programme that electrical signals supplying the electricity demand for public shipping will be available prior to 2025. One key element of energy exchange is energy savings, and the Committee considers it urgent to organize educational and economic incentives to ensure maximum savings. In the proposal, cooperation is properly defined as one aim to speed up energy exchange. It is urgent to use a position that involves most of the energy production and energy transport companies having public property and thus can organize and coordinate many basic activities. When it comes to aspects of energy exchange research, development, and innovation, it is clear that funding is lacking to support the environment. In 2018, financial planning reduces contributions to innovation and development, after which only about 120 million are going. K. typically for four years to this category of languages, in addition to the contributions that are now being made. The committee considers the need for a special effort to ensure improvement in innovation and development for energy exchange. Such efforts do not take place in government plans. The Commission considers unclear why transport expenditure is referred to for the development and maintenance of transport workers in the proposal and beyond the financial resources of other aspects of the community that contribute to energy saving. The Commission feels that it is urgent to link fuel charge to greenhouse gas emissions. According to the law, products and carbon costs fall from non-carbon fuels, but the level of renewable fuels would be more in proportion to measured emissions. That's how you could, for example. reimburse renewable fuels that do not meet the threshold, to reduce fuel use from corn and palm oil, and to increase fuel use from organic waste and carbon dioxide. Then the Committee agrees with the importance of eutrophication in this country. ocean - related activities could be further followed. Only measures should be considered to increase the share of renewable fuels into the affected activity. The committee believes that real - life goals and better - than - reality goals can be discussed. The Commission feels that funding for building timbers for electric vehicles is not enough. However, ideas about special infrastructure raise hopes that if governments set progressive goals for development, technology and financial development, they could become a reality. The Commission believes that in the proposal a clearer discussion of the construction of other energy stations where private companies are holding hands, e.g. to provide methadone or methadone overexpensive fuel use. It will further be thought of building a hydrogen plant, either in cooperation with a private person or mostly for a public grant. While the proposal makes it clear that electricity forests and incentives will be available for fish - rich factories, for example, when it comes to the electrical power of shipping in harbors and aircraft in airports, it is used either by checking whether there are obstacles or directly related to the use of electricity at airports. The Commission believes that this is a lack of timeout and route, as well as an energy demand assessment, or the value of this part of the programme cannot be determined. The Committee welcomes transport policies for the Council of the Management Board as well as for its environmental transport policies. The same is true of Encore activities. However, it is clear that under the national budget, there is not enough money to be spent in research and development. Granted, significant financial support is being provided for this year, but with an increased need for more intensive work in the coming years, because of climate, energy exchange, and the resistance to climate change, financial resources are too low. The Commission feels strongly that the government's policy on energy exchange requires what to use the energy funded here. It is also important to consider local solutions for the electrical needs of individual tasks, e.g. at ports and for fishery factories as well as marine power workers, solar or wind forces, taking into account environmental effects. The Commission points out that Iceland has a good chance to become one of the major countries in the use of renewable energy in transport. In addition, the need to keep in mind that a certain source of energy meets the requirements of international quality, approved by motor producers to use on the machines of either land, sea or air. The Commission therefore aims to consider the above aspects in the preparation of a reevaluation of the plan, and then the Commission proposes the following adjustment of the proposal: In addition to a new operation under the C team, it is suggested that the impact of the action programme on greenhouse gas emissions should be determined by the international commitment agreement between Iceland and the European Union and its countries and the Paris Convention. The expression change in C.1 team is also proposed for public car use. It is suggested that rather than predict the objective that 20% of all public vehicles will be placed in eco-friendly for the year 2020, the first choice for eco-friendly vehicles is required unless the job conditions and use require other solutions. At the same time, the Commission suggests that the development of rural eco-friendly transport policies will be improved by public transport as well as on wheels and footpaths. In addition, the committee suggests some adjustments in the suggestions to correct expressions and not to make any material adjustments. Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Logi Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar Einarsson are writing on this in advance and believe it is important to ensure that financial management will be ensured, as well as financial resources for the measures and goals involved in the energy exchange programme. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson was away from the case, but literature is considering this with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. Under references to the writings of President Páll Magnússon, Director of Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magnytótttir, Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Logi Einar Einarsson, advance, Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir Þösteinsdótir, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Óli Björn Kárason. I'm going to explain to you the adjustment of the proposal for an action plan on energy change. 1st Instead of the words, "Land and the ocean, during Operation A.1 come: Land. 2. Instead of the words, a review every three years during surgery A.2 comes: There will be a review every three years. 3. Instead of the words, a exhortation for the A.5 operation to arrive: Let it happen. 4. Instead of the words, "Practice mostly in Operation A.6 comes: The car will be the main target. 5. Instead of the words, "Land, sea, air, and operation B.4 come: Land and sea. 6th The team descriptions C.1 procedure as follows: A transport policy for the Management Board and Substitute institutions, which include a sentence of the aim of increasing share of eco-friendly cars in public shopping. The principle has to be that the first choice of shopping will be for an eco-friendly car unless work conditions and use require other solutions. 7. The second stratospheric terms for C.2 operation will be expressed: The rural population will be encouraged to implement a formal transport policy that takes into account eco-friendly transport with emphasis on improved public transportation and hierarchical and hiking, as well as the share of transport to multienergy stations and the damage to cleaner vehicles. 8. Adding to the C team is a new operation with a price C.6, as follows: Land, sea, air. The description: The effect of the energy exchange action programme on greenhouse gas emissions will be calculated in terms of Iceland's commitment to climate change agreements, as per the UN Convention on Climate Change Convention and its Member States, on the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, on the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and on a comparable agreement with the European Union and the state due to the United Nations's Paris Convention on Climates now being developed. Responsible: Environment and Resource Ministry and the Environment Agency. So let me explain my case to this important subject, which will be one of the major issues that concern the nation's future and the general world's future, that we are working to implement eco-efficient energy in our community in as many areas as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u100	A respectable president. I'm speaking here as one of the senators who was standing at a minority's shelter. An environmental and transport committee that went so far. The job committee; it was Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Einar Brynjólfsson and me. It is fun to tell you that this council resolution proposal, the energy exchange action programme, is a benefit to all of us. It's good to see that. The employment committee is united in terms of esteem and modification proposals. It's as if everyone doesn't know much about such a government proposal at the council. We would have liked to see more and more changes, but it is likely that there will be no further cohesion. However, thanks to what has been accomplished, and it can also be borne out that these transverse organizations indicate how serious the climate is and, at the same time, that they are in many, but not all of them. Thank you for the guides used here in the Committee's panel that energy exchange should be won by reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the share of renewable energy sources. It's a key to Iceland, which already has a highly eco-friendly electroenergy production and heating, to look closely at all the potential available to use more and more domestic fuels for all that happens. Furthermore, it says: To aim for Iceland to be the best use of renewable energy in all areas This is still repeated and that the construction of needed infrastructures will be targeted in order to ensure energy exchange progress. If foreign fuels are produced, it must be made to ensure that the public has access to them and that they are more or less specialized. Operational plan is until 2030. This should be reassessed every five years. Then, whatever the next few years, I hope that a reassessment will take into account the many reforms and tips presented in a controversial minority list and have been received in many ways into the opinion of others. Business committee. In any case, in any case, it is urgent that we step further forward and faster than is indicated in this energy exchange program. What may be the most important factor is to guarantee a far greater number of millions, even billions, to these issues than the current financial or financial program is to be expected. I assume there are more people coming in on it from now on. There will be a number of cost - greaters on this schedule and on those not there and on projects that will help us reach our goals in the power of the Paris Convention. Similarly, the amount of money may be much higher than expected in the years to come. This work, this cost assessment, has to speed up at all times. As I told you earlier, a smaller part of the environment and transport committees returned a specialistium that has returned to the committee's opinion. Business committee. I'm going to pick up a few things that may need further explanations and that are partly an explanation in our minority mind. These articles discuss the positiveness of the aims of the programme by a professional health committee, although there are a number of factors that are too far out - of - control. These include three: Third, a strategy such as this will be used in the light of other policies and programmes in the same area, i.e. Government policies onlining electrical lines, the national protection and energy use programme and the general government policy on electricity efficiency. This is the energy policy that has been advertised frequently and many times by the council here, the energy policy that is desperately missing to address such a strategy, and, in fact, many other factors, to some overall vision. It is repeated that economic motivations are important and similar but that economic measures, such as direct and powerful financial support, are equally important. Then there is actually a direct government budget for various projects, newcomers or projects that need considerable financial support to see if they are viable or not. In many cases, investors are not interested in taking such things into them, so they have to think very carefully about the power and direct support for projects. Similarly, early development is essential. Then it was shown in our minority list, and it has paid in here that, according to a national budget, contributions to innovation and development in 2018 are reduced only about 120 million. K. typically for four years to this category of languages, in addition to the contributions that are now being made. It is obvious that if we are going to get far from these materials, if we are going to make sure, for example. The domestic fuel production, that's not half the effort in these chemicals. It takes a lot more financial support and more funding through the Technical Development Fund and more funds for these classes. Furthermore, we will discuss the need to build wood. There's talk of generators, record stations, hydrogen stations, electrical connections, both at airports and at docks. It is also important to remember that assessment in Iceland, which is made from organic wastes or the stoppered waste dumps, is not the most important thing in evaluating it as far as it reaches, but the estimate produced directly from carbon dioxide by hydrogen, e.g. from the exhalation of the geothermalists, even from energy - consuming industry - high levels can be produced in this way. Therefore, assessment may be important in domestic fuel sources. Hydrogen generated by electrographics, i.e. Just by splitting water by electrical currents, it is also very important because it has been identified as one. automobile producers, both regular vehicles and larger vehicles, are planning to return to the winter zone after any break. It happens, for example. Toyota, in Japan, places great emphasis on the power of a powered human car. So hydrogen will also be important in domestic fuel production. Special attention should be given to this. In addition, it has been shown in our minority wing that the committee, and it goes on to the job committee, insists on linking fuel remuneration with the measured greenhouse gas emissions, not merely dropping carbon and goods from fuels just because they are not of the mineral industry. In other words, paying in proportion to measured emissions is more correct. This is simply because reimbursement of renewable fuels, which do not meet the threshold, could be made to reduce fuel use, e.g. removes corn and palm oil, but increases the use of biohazardous and carbon dioxide fuels. Simply put, in this country we have a chance to produce alcohol, i.e. Mole, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen, produced by electrons. This is what happens in the Carbon Recycling factory for Black For aeons, and there are many ways to increase the methadone production if these currency are changed according to our needs. In that case, I'm saying that ◯carbon recycling, or method of manufacture, can stand below tens of thousands of tons or even more of alcohol that can be used both for use as a vehicle but also for unmixed on cars and ships. It has been observed that Europe's technological development is so far away that large boat and boat machines run solely on methadone. If we can produce something of it, I'm going to say, it is quite clear that we can reduce emissions from both fishing vessels and from various other ships much faster by using methadone on ships instead of merely thinking about changing diesels for black oil and thus reducing emissions. There will never be a great deal of it, i.e. There will never be enough emissions to put the ships out in Iceland to mean being environmentally friendly. The Committee considers financing, i.e. The job committee, for building structures for electric cars, is not enough. The reason is that in programmes only three times 67 million are expected. At a point, 67 million. K. Per year for three years, for building structures for electric cars. But there is an idea of a special deposit in this operation plan, and it should be welcomed. Of course, if that happens to be the case, there will be an increase in funds for this project, but not just about 200 million. K. in three years. So there are major projects ahead of us. If there is an electrical exchange system and even an airport, we are in even greater need than we can see in a controlled budget plan. The labour board believes that in the proposal a clearer discussion of the construction of other energy stations where private companies maintain their own resources, e.g. to provide methadone or methadone overexpensive fuel use. The hydrogen production centre must also be built because hydrogen is usually produced at the site. It is still a project that calls for more funding on these projects than is expected. All of this said, it can be said with the Committee that the proposal for a change will be accepted, but it can also be taken into account. The members of the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands Magnóttir and Logi Einar Einar Einarsson say that in a financial program as well as on budgets, we need to make sure that the measures and goals involved in the energy exchange programme become real. Finally, funding is the key to getting far by improving the energy exchange strategy as presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-68.u101	A respectable president. Hv. People who have spoken before have considered the committee's opinion of things and have made adjustments since then. A professional health committee. In itself, I do not have much to add as far as the details are concerned. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson gave us a thorough review as we did in the lesser part of our lives. The Environment and Transport Committee submitted so that I'm not going to dive anywhere deep or take details on this matter. The Constitutions speak well of themselves. I must say, I'm very pleased with that review and the adjustments. A professional health committee suggests the matter. They're a great improvement. This proposal for interpretation of the energy exchange strategy was first proposed before several councils since then. When we discussed it with the first. I merely made myself feel short of being at the very present. The government would have properly updated that proposal. I felt that there was a lack of ambition for the proposal as it came from the highest level. Minister. There are a number of points that can be pointed out in a long language that I'm not going to do. However, as already mentioned, the aims of the program are, of course, positive. There is no denying that they will be reached. But then the mind must be focused on a matter. I thought it was originally the council proposal from the highest level. A minister does not necessarily suggest that these matters are taken sufficiently seriously. All the steps toward transport energy exchange are, of course, good. But as has only been established, there is a lack of measurable objectives in the Parliamentary arrangement; how much individual measures are intended to reduce emissions and help Iceland to meet its targets under the Paris Convention. It has been brought in, and all of this has resulted in further improvement. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has entered the budget. It may be the beginning and end of everything, unfortunately, the money is happy to be, but especially in these matters. I have often wondered what governments, both current governments and former governments, meant by their lovely words about taking huge steps on the environment, in climate matters, when I have gone over the budget, over the financial expenses, and not necessarily seen the financial resources that are necessary to follow, people intend to take serious action. That's why this case is being handled. On the other hand, if you are reading through a political arrangement on energy change measures and a five - year financial program, there is not necessarily a lot of harmony. But God let it be good, that the increase of money may be on this matter. If I had thought it would have to be taken together somewhere. It's pathetic where it's the highest. The government speaks of climate and environment as one of its priorities, not seeing exactly what to put into that category. Despite the numbers of reporters talking about major steps in these matters, I feel that I need to clarify more clearly how to take these important steps. Are these extra funds on the environment 1 billion? The money's already leaving. Is it found inside climates within the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, or is it found under some other team? It is hard to say, but it is clear that there is not enough money left to take the necessary steps in the current budget. Finally, I'm going to come on to what I've been talking about quite often in this piano, which is harmony. Hv. A professional professional health committee will treat you well in his review that it is, for example, the case. not necessarily clear how access to energy will be maintained everywhere it is concerned. It remains in contact with the lack and unfortunately still lacking, although there are reports from a number of sources that are working on the energy environment of the Icelanders, regardless of their energy efficiency options, whether it is electricity transport systems, energy development here or there, energy exchange in transport, or where it is. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in so good earlier, which is a energy efficiency plan. How will we use our energy in our community? Are we heading for a green society? How should we take such steps? Therefore, I will be very careful with the progress of this case and with further plans and policies from the highest level. Government. But each and every one of them is all right. You can talk about and support or want to make changes, but the key is that all these policies speak together. That does not mean working on one smell in one corner and another in the other and not letting this work rhyme. It is the most important thing to do in these matters. The energy exchange programme will never be more than a plan if serious measures are not followed in relation to the structure required.
