ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u1	At a meeting of the World Health and Education Committee earlier today, Vilhjálmur Árnason Sigurbjörnsdóttir was elected president of the Committee, Nichole Leigh Mosty 1. At a meeting of the trade committee, Páll Magnússon was elected president of the Committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson I, vice president of the United States and Vice - President Hanna Katrín Friðriksson II. At a hearing of the Board of Directors and Controls, Brassur Níelsson was elected president of the Committee, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson I, and Vice President Njáll Trausti Friðert Friðbertsson II.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u2	There will be time for a conference between the clocks. 13 and 14 today, due to committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u3	A respectable president. On this day, I want to talk about the strike of sailors. It's been standing for weeks, I don't know how many there are, but for far too long, sailors and their boats have been tied to the docks. The local people who trust in the fishing barn sit at home out of work and find relief. Fish markets, within the country and outside, are in grave danger. I believe that from this house, a strong greeting to sailors and builders is going to speed up the big deal, finishing a deal that, of course, is a long time. They've been out for five years. At the same time, we also have the pathetic news that the exhausted furpower is only 57 you. a ton. That tells us what the situation is in the fur. It is not only an important pantheon fish, it has gone from not being caught for so many decades, so it was only melted, then frozen, and then the eggs were frozen, and the fur became mostly a valuable Icelandic sea address. Now that there's a chance of being eaten by sight, I think the fishing in the last year was 110 of you. about a ton of fur. But we remember that it's not too many years since the fishing went up to about One million. tons a year. Of course not, but I am deeply concerned about the situation in the fishing field. I hope sailors and builders negotiate and that professional life will be introduced to the blues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u4	President. Last night, when we had a conversation at the council, we had a comment. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son believed that the report on the scope of Iceland's national partnerships, which the prime minister delayed to publish in advance of elections and seasons, is not prepared. In view of the fact that the report was to be completed at the end of the summer, it is rather clear that the report was to be discussed only in the grossly balanced collection of information that could be obtained with limited effort. The team who won this report evidently felt that it was ready, otherwise he would not have returned the report. Then there was the fact that Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson said that the content of this report was the basis for a more objective discussion of national business, making it clear that the subject had something to do with the public. Admittedly, the group pointed out the need for more attention. It's just a normal practice to point out what needs to be done after what you're done with. However, the question that matters is whether the information is public interest. It considers the Generals' agent in his opinion of the case to be unconvinced. So I want to go inside. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's opinion that the report is not yet finished, which is clearly wrong from the introduction of the report and the opinion of the Trustee of the Generalist, and if it were not worthy of a special discussion of the delay of the report with regard to the Minister's ethics, only get up on the table in this discussion so that this discussion can be taken on the correct basis of continuing work here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u5	V.E.G. President. In last night's discussion, of course, I was just referring to the head of the staff that happened to the Economic and Business Committee and said that it took more work to complete the project and get more information. The fact was that time was not enough to make a report that he felt would reach a proper angle. It was also noted that the report was sent to the Ministry in mid - September. Then they would test her and review her and the comments that might be made. The contents of this report were presented to the minister of October 5th. There's nothing different with this report than with many other reports presented to the Ministry. They are reviewed before they are introduced, whether as members of Congress or as public, so to me there was nothing unusual about this. This report, however, provides a basis for determining the follow-up which further information needs to be provided, what can be done better with regard to monitoring, etc. So the report is fine as far as it goes. But to me, there's nothing unnatural about this. There's nothing unusual about the minister's progress, as far as I'm concerned. It was also not a matter of understanding in the case of the head of the staff, although it was preferable that the report had already been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the serious situation that came up a few weeks ago when two Mybean planes could not land in Reykjavík due to shutting down an emergency runway. I would also like to point out the number of books that have come from rural governments across the country in the last few weeks. I was posting this on paper just moments ago, and I see no better than the fact that these are already high in the 10 to 1515 books that are already wide and wide around the country, so that severity is great and clearly taken very seriously by the position that has come up. Last year, some 700 people were transferred to Iceland's medical flights by Myar aircraft and over 100 people at the National Reservation Guard so that they could see the proportions in this matter. During the past decade, the number of transports has increased by 50 percent. We know that it is time for the General Assembly to take this matter a little further and more information, and we will begin to look into real ways that other nations will handle similar matters, such as the area of the Reykjavík airport has been, how they act on their security and security infrastructure in their respective countries. We need to see how Sweden does this, Danir, Norwegians, British, Dutch, and neighboring nations. We are actually very short in this regard, in view of neighboring nations, in terms of national security and safety infrastructure, such as airports, electrical systems, roads, bridges, and such factors. Individual societies must do this in some agreement with the State, but they do not violate the interests of the State. This is known in other countries. I just wanted to come in with you here and we could do this for the discussion. I hope that we will be able to get a close discussion of this and that we will be able to develop this discussion, take it further, and reach some conclusion, since all the people of the country can be at peace with this matter, because the interests are vast. I'm pointing out that last year it's about that. 350 people who are on a priority plane with a life - threatening or life - threatening life - style. [[The president calls.]] It's one day just with a Mousy to Reykjavík. Then there's a lot of people on Nick's helicopters with the National Reservation Guard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u7	Madam President. Sea fishing, fishing, and fishing have been the main source of employment on the West. Seafood is a key element and is the support that the work and economy of the region still have. The development of industry in recent years, however, has been characterised by contractions and declines in population. For many years, Westerners have searched for new instruments and have made some progress. There, as in other lands, the service of tourists is increasing, but the Westerners look to their own gold chest, the sea. A few years ago, the EEA issued a work permit for the marine farm in Eagle care. Today, as many as 40 tons of salmon are being exported to a foreign market every day, three trucks. This year's production will be about 10,000 tons and value 9 billion. Life and employment have taken a great turn, and population populations are growing in the area, and housing is scarce. On the north side of the West, people look to the same trade. Fish farms and fish farms at Isafjords and in Bolungarvík have applied for sea farm permission in designated areas of the Isafjörður deep. They are not fully satisfied at sea with Icelanders. Advertisers succeed, and advocates of protection on wild strains believe that there is imminent disaster. The public view that this new article can, in turn, provide sound support for the survival and future survival of the Western countries as well as for traditional fishing routes, agriculture and industry. Local people working on the construction of this sector in the West call for clear processes, observation and management in the light of suspicion and opposition. Based on the increase in marine and coastal activities and demand for activities, the Commission is expected at the Council of Environment and Resource Ministers on marine and marine planning and coastal areas. ... fishing. This is an important matter of interest, and I encourage all members of the country to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u8	Madam President. Last March, the World Council adopted law No. 20/2016, on national development programmes to protect nature and cultural memory. This law expects to do so, i.e. it refers to a preliminary strategy for building timbers at tourist locations throughout the country for the protection of nature and culture. That includes this strategy. to make a special contribution to 2017, which all of us are aware of is the sea. At present, there is only a set of priorities available in the Environment and Resource Ministry on these issues. When we talk about building wood, we are accustomed to looking at special projects, such as footpaths, platforms, or someone who is particularly responsible for the movement of tourists to come to the country, but less is involved in this situation. By permission of the president, the program says: In view of the lack of infrastructure in many areas and the fact that it will take a long time to build it up, the increase in agriculture and oversight is important. What I wanted to draw attention to, and I think it's important to show up, in many places, these expensive time - consuming projects are time - consuming, as we have heard many times in the media. Each year, about 30 National Guard courses are completed and well equipped to keep the watch in those areas, ensuring at least The event or the maintenance, that we can stand up and keep it at the same time -- I say 0, 0,ez, because I've been working as such - without having to build up a great deal because it takes time. I think it's urgent to stress that large increases in groundkeeping as we've been talked about this while we can't build up as fast as we'd like.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u9	President. I'd like to, in view of the fact that there are many new members of this new council, to remind and encourage new senators to read a Senate hearing about the response of the General Assembly to the report of the II Parliament since 2010. Then all members of Congress agreed to this resolution. The reason I remind her is that there's been a lot of discussions about the commission at the Council today. The decision to change the council or the customs and customs of the council is not taken out of the open air, in order to establish a administrative committee and a board of follow-up. This was followed by the collapse of the bank and following a report by the II Parliamentary Commission. At that time, a board of administration and monitoring was proposed that the management of the Commission be cast into a position of government because the role of the Committee is to monitor the execution of the Commission. This was also done to create an opportunity for the General for more independence from the Commission. But then the Independence Party decided not to accept lead on a board of administration and monitoring. It's very important to keep it in place. During the last term, the government decided to accept this responsibility. But now, as a result of some dramatic failure of the Independence Department, a board of directors is no longer under the influence of the law and the conclusion that this was a real control of the project under the authority of the government. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I hope the Independence Party sees its own credit in learning from past mistakes and getting out of this kind of work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss one of our top priority candidates for this council winter, which is a health plan for Iceland. The aim of the proposal is to hide the highest. Healthcare Ministers to initiate work in the healthcare programme and will be cooperated with healthcare professionals. And there will be take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. It will also take into account the population development of health - care centres, populations of age, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, and the town of summer homes, to name something. As a strategy, you will also be considered to see if there is a means of making use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reducing the pressures of land hospitals. The program should be submitted to the General Assembly in December 2017. During the last campaign, all or most of the parties spoke that health matters should be at the top of the political priorities after the election. Now we see the Constitution of a new government and, if you look at the U.S. Constitution. There are no healthcare providers listed in this list. It's very strange where that's what it is. During the last term, British senators criticized the then governing body for lack of policy in the group. It is also particularly strange, since in the last few years, policy has been missing in this category. That has even been true. A surgeon will discuss the news and elsewhere. It also appeared in a Senate document that I prepared for the highest. Health Minister during the last term that policies were missing in the group of litigation but were working on subtracting. They never came before the General. I hope that members of all political parties will assist the candidates and me in bringing this important issue through the General. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir on the importance of a report by the General Commission. I think councilmen in this room, both new and old, and I mean seniors in my job, should windows in it more often. A new Parliamentary guide may be the study report, perhaps most notably the volume on improvement in the administration. Then I'd like to cut in the same knee as the dog. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson. I seem to be here to join other members of Congress. It shows the solidarity of the council, the greatness of all our friends. But I'd like to come into the business of fish farming, which I think we need to take a real good look. Hv. paritaprevir The Brjánsson Brjánnsson's S. - fearing husband introduced the importance of the industry in certain territories, which is all true and true. Rather, this matter needs to be considered carefully. All too often we have observed in Iceland, unfortunately, that economic interests may have pushed too much of a measure of action into play. We have taken action indiscriminately to the ground, but we should. This is a matter that needs to be examined in the background. Many geneticists, biologists, and fishermen have waved red flags when it comes to this. We must always go to the earth in such a way that nature enjoys the doubt in such matters. We should look to other countries that have experience in this, such as Norway. Hv. 6th. Smoke. So, I, honored, suggested yesterday at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee that the Committee takes the initiative to examine these issues. All I could perceive was that it was willing to do it with other members of the committee, and I hope this will become a matter of Congress because it is important that these matters come in on the board of environmental and transport committees and that the environment will be evaluated there as far as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u12	Madam President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Friðriksson is concerned about the seaman strike and its consequences. The situation is very difficult, it seems. Of course, I have no intention of suggesting that the Council interferes with the case as such. But I believe that we can present a case that I, along with Friðriksson and hopefully members of each category, can be traders, that the seaman's food money will be tax-free. The model is there for government employees and day - to - day employees who work away from their homes and do not have to pay their taxes. I believe that this is a justice case that could provide a positive sign for this dispute. I think there's something we could get together about. It is not only a matter of the consequences of a strike against sailors and our markets and other factors as a whole but often forgotten in the discussion that this bites on fish workers in the country, up to 2 you. a person who is now on unemployment benefits because of the strike and has, in effect, been taken out of pay, paid off. Some of those who have no right to make unemployment and who have to go on the progress of their communities. It's also something we need to revise here. This class enjoys tremendous insecurity of one class regarding these matters. I think there is a need to consider whether a matter can be presented at the Council, and will be used in the matter of strengthening the resignations of fish workers, as do other classes of the country. It is not acceptable for that group to remain behind and thus be made payable for a business dispute. [[The president calls.]] It must be used to adapt the situation to fish workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u13	Madam President. Yesterday, in a number of foreign media, such as Independent, the Dutch minister of Lilanne Ploumen suggested that the Netherlands take the initiative to set up funds to support women's health, contraception, and abortion activities. This, of course, is a response to the U.S. President Donald Trumpur' decree of a ban on the United States's ability to strengthen a relief organization that gives women information on abortion. The refusal of abortion or the lack of professional information on abortion will not lead to reduced abortion, but it will put women's life and health at great risk worldwide. This is also important in Iceland, for among the emphasis on developing cohesion is an increase in the gender balance and authority of women. There is little more power than control of one's own body. I therefore feel that at the General Assembly, we should closely monitor the development of Lilanne Ploumen's fund and support the incident with him and/or provide additional funding for the aspects of development that we are already involved in and special consideration for women's health. Here I think the Council can have an effect. We're supposed to use this effect, and I'm going to take this case up at the highest level. Ministers of foreign affairs, when he comes to the foreign committee to see us about how we can use ourselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u14	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance and economics, Benedikt Jóhannesson, introduced the government's plan to open the state books even more than has been established so far. I'm glad, because there's one of the main battles of Pirata, i.e. to give the public unquestioning access to all possible information. Knowledge is power. It knew the Catholic Church centuries ago when it monopolized knowledge and controlled its recipients and defined what was right and what was wrong. It was a short storyteller from the history teacher. As public bioavailability increases in government data, public power increases. Keeping it based on information. That's why the Piratars want e.g. have regularly opened committee meetings. Pirates have shown that the mind is involved. The Party Book is available on his home page and has been for a long time, as well as the book of our election a few days before the last elections. There we could see how much money we had and how that amount was spent. We challenged other classes to do the same, but no other group would answer our challenge. I wondered, " Why can it be? ' The secretism must lead to suspicion of corruption. Depravity cannot exist openly. Keeping information is in my opinion corruption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u15	Madam President. The government's policy declaration discusses the government's ownership of business banks. It is, in fact, there. Said it will be conducted in such a way as to reduce ownership, to reduce the involvement of the state of finance. It says that an open and beneficial process will be stressed, but it will also aim for the public to receive a special part of property provided free of charge. I hope we're going to see this crystal-like policy coming here in the next few months. It is reasonable and natural for the public to have a direct share in the Icelandic business banks. I point out that from the end of 2009 until the end of the third quarter of a year, there was an increase in esteem in the three Icelandic business banks of about 320 billion. Much of this increase is due to a reassessment of the property of banks. The United States of America, like state funds and businesses, suffered great losses in 2008. It is reasonable and reasonable for the public to share in the tremendous increase in values that has taken place in the banking system. I hope that we members of the United States will have the best chance to come together and make sure this works out. [[The president calls.]] I say, there will be nothing to eliminate suspicion of banks and financial systems other than a direct possession of the public to the financial system. That's what we're all supposed to get together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u16	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir It was last night that Logi Már Einar Einarsson arrived in a pita and made up a subject of words that I discussed with the prime minister's debate. It was strange that he directed his inquiry to a respectable health minister. When I was in a house myself and available to answer the questions of the senator, I don't feel much prudence in asking others about my speech. I don't know what it is. paritaprevir It is true that this sort of behavior is the case with the Logi of Einarsson, and I do hope that there is no evidence of what he or any of the others who are not in government for this time's work is about to do. Hv. paritaprevir Logia Logi Einarsson does not have to worry that his future will not be good with him. Just not at all. Some good concerns have already been made, and I would like to mention in this context a specific medical programme from the forwarder category, which is completely consistent with health policy, which is presented in the Government's declaration of a global health policy. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson, who referred to and rejoiced that the State had to be opened. In this context, it is good to mention that there was an precisely greater part of Independence Party and a Bright Future that was the first public agency to open its accounting where transparency and democracy have been emphasised on the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u17	A respectable president. The Council of Iceland's Council is looking for support from the General for the proposed change of names and number of recruitments in the Council of Government. The change means that, instead of the Ministry of Justice, there will be a legal office and, on the other hand, the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. With the change, there are eight more recruitment steps from eight to nine. Madam President. On the other hand, a strong historical tradition has been established by special legal committees and transport agencies and is rooted as far as the Council's Management Board is concerned in 1904. This arrangement is based on the material status of the administrative bodies, particularly on the nature of the administrative issues of the Ministry of Justice, since most countries have a special Ministry of Justice, in order to form the rest of the Northern States. The main reason for the change is: 1st To explain organization and practices within the Council in accordance with the view that the same matter is related to a matter of nature and the same as the Ministry. 2. To sharpen political leadership in the important issues involved. 3. To ensure a better perspective on the vast legal projects now being heard by the State Department. 4. To increase the knowledge and ability of the management board to carry out the work being done. It is my conviction that the changed organization, according to the above, will strengthen the administrations in the designated domains and leess of a minister to fulfill his policy-making role, including following government policies, not just the government of the present government, but the future government. The Declaration of the Government of Independence Class, Restoration and Future includes a variety of policy-makers affecting the classes of issues that meet the current Ministry of Internal Affairs, e.g. For example, regarding the construction of law enforcement, border patrols, lawsuits, courts, affairs of foreigners, transportation and infrastructure, security of road users, social and communications. It is important that the management board be organized so that the best and best results can be achieved in these important matters as the management quality is improved. Since the establishment of the Ministry of State on January 1, 2011, rapid developments and changes have also been made. New and urgent projects have called for special priorities and the attention of ministers, especially in those areas that will be part of the new Ministry of Justice. There have been extensive debates and observations in the European community. This has been followed in the news over the past few years, there have been repeated meetings, not just in the Schengen Community, but in the larger contexts and various other projects ahead. Never have so many refugees sought Europe, and in Iceland as many people have applied for international protection as they have last year. The reorganization of the system of judgment is what humans know. How important it is that we succeed in making the changes that are taking place there! In terms of infrastructure, maintenance measures during the past few years have led to the need to establish a targeted structure that still requires strict priorities, as well as new ones leading to the funding of infrastructure. The transport of rural transport to the Department of Transport and Development also gives many opportunities for new policy development. All these tasks require the attention of the minister and the special office at their side. Finally, it is to look as I mentioned earlier that the above changes will bring the order of the land closer to the organization of the people in other parts of the North. Is it my opinion that the changes will support the involvement of the Icelandic government into international cooperation in these areas? Madam President. Since January 1, 2011, the State Ministry has been working in the present form, as already noted. The argument behind the combination of these two advisers, judicial hearings, and transportation measures included the following: The efforts of the then government to facilitate government management in the wake of the economic collapse were, in particular, looked to for convenience and possible harmony in the support of the advisers. The implementation of the currently planned changes will be an attempt to maintain a successful economy to the extent possible. It is assumed that the two Ministry will continue to cooperate with various support services currently available. However, the dissociation of the State Ministry is inevitable, leading to a conflicting separation that in some cases may result in an increase in cost of business. Clearly, the number of government officials will increase by one in this change, as well as by the recognition of the documentation of the scheme and financial management. In contrast, the Council of Management Board is working to promote the collective support services for the entire Ministry. Its preparation has lasted for some time and has proposed changes in the aim of promoting services, increasing production, efficiency and cost of long-term development for all the Directorates of the Board as well as increasing their nuclear functions and expertise. It is estimated that the project management of joint support services will provide their suggestions for us that will emphasise giving more varied and uniform services, making more use of funds, and more associated with those who work similar tasks in the scheme. There is also work at the Board of Directors, which aims to increase a great deal of common invitations and invitations to all councils and their institutions. Both will offset the increased cost of operating that may result from the intervention of the State Department. I think it's very important that we think about it in a larger context than just for a special agency. It is only natural to have questions about the economy when one ministry is divided into two, and people ask themselves: " Where could I improve my economic situation by congregating such units as it was done at the time? I think maybe they're looking a little too narrow. On the other hand, we need to focus on the emphasis we want to achieve in our system, build up our expertise, establish political issues, and see that the mechanism of action is in which similar issues are mixed together and given clear leadership. However, when it comes to business, we should not look at just what could be accomplished by congregating different groups of cases under one Ministry term. We're supposed to look at that matter in a much larger context. As I've come into them, we're supposed to look at it all over the Ministry and Subcommittee. We have, for example. to ask ourselves, " Should I make more use of the provisions offered by the law today to establish the agencies that would truly be able to offer this economic advantage if it is what we believe we are seeking more than we now? ' In other words, we would be taking in nearly every single group of organisations that are active in the field of action and would be able to achieve considerable economic management despite the continuation of a certain arm length. So I encourage people to look at these matters in a larger context than what is unique to the wisest because we can do so much else in our operating system. Madam President. It is assumed that the government's affairs will be divided between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and the same as they will now be divided between the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Transport and Foreign Affairs by Presidential decision No. 2/2017, as per Presidential decision No. 12/2017, on the switch between executive council members of Iceland's Management Board. So it is already in itself what work will be heard under each department. This is already shown in the President's decision to switch projects between the Ministers. This is all the main work of the advisers. It is important to keep in mind that these changes are not expected to be changed to employees who are now working in the State Department. The staff will move to the new advisory in accordance with their workspace and an assessment of the scope of each Ministry. Of course, this is a very important factor. This proposal is made in this way, allowing the president to say: ▪ The Council concludes with a reference to 1st. 2.g. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, No. 115/2011, to support the proposed change in the number and intensity of councils at the Iceland Management Board, which includes the intervention of the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. So, we're here to discuss that with the approval of this proposal, the Generals' support is provided to carry out this change. Later it is attributed to the synonym to the main objective, what will become of the joint support service, how the switch between recruitments will be, and finally it is said that it is intended for a new Presidential decision to switch Iceland's Council to the Ministry with the change made to the proposal to be carried out as soon as possible after the Council of the Council has completed its discussion on the subject. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It is planned that a new Ministry will operate as soon as possible after the Council has completed its discussion on the subject. A formal decision will be made in the publication of the Presidential decision on the switch between Iceland's Council of Management to the Ministry and the change of the Presidential decision as I have been doing here. When the Council was last discussing these matters, several changes were made in the Senate's handling of the bill that came in here, but on the part of a committee that discussed the matter at the time were stressed that the council would, according to the circumstances, allowing the rapid treatment of these events at the council. A respectable president. I suggest that this proposal be referred to the management and monitoring committee and subsequent discussion after the end of this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u18	President. In itself, I agree with that, and I think it's wise to go this way. It was an attempt to combine transportation with justice, and the lesson that could be learned was that the Ministry is simply too large to include both major and important groups. But I wanted to ask the Minister that these changes are being made whether or not they're being brought up to deliver the Post and Communications Office, starting with changing things to the Ministry that would be more convenient, since the Minister is covering the need to bring together the right case so that it is intervening, to e.g. The Department of Professional and Newborns.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u19	A respectable president. No, we have not specifically considered whether this institution had a better place in another department. On the other hand, you can say that there are a number of opinions, such as those found in this context. I have, for example. heard the idea that travel could be the way it used to be, that is, no new idea, that people have wondered about it. But to me, that would be the wrong change. It would not be wise to do so because it would not be as loud as we would like to be doing in this administrative business with a special government agency where travel is in the background. Now that I'm out in those psalms, I'd like to state that I feel it's absolutely necessary to promote that office in that department.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u20	President. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to see at least whether the post - communications agency should better be at home under the Ministry of Justice, simply because the Agency has acted in a physical way and even its name is not appropriate for the extensive and rapid development of communication, which are less through mail and more through the Internet. I say this from experience with great communication with this institution over the years. So I'd like to ask--this is all too short a time--whether it's been discussed, in the light of these reviews, that there will be more cooperation and flow between ministers than has ever been because there are now three classes in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u21	Madam President. Yes, I welcome all ideas of sharpening individual emphasis in the Council of Control by being rescued in the right places by mercenaries. We have changed the law so that such classes can be moved without the presence of the council, as shown by these examples, and we have only done so by a recent president's decision. This shall be to my opinion, whether this thing be better in the court of justice, but we shall not go out of it at any time. The question then came about whether we were going to move a flow between halls of advice. [[Flow apart.]] In this regard, I would like to say a complete yes, not only because here are three categories of government but also also because it is the core element of the administrative structure that we have today, in which there are not many clear, direct issues that hear under the Ministry, but it is intended to be more involved in the management of the government, to use ministers to bring up cases that are under more than one Ministry and to be consulted by the Ministers before they enter the government and finally before the council. [[The president calls.]] That's how I'm going to at least Trying to keep up with business at the Ministry of Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u22	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for the cost of these changes. It is somewhat lenient, as it says that in some cases this change may result in an increase in cost of operating. I find it hard to start off with such a system change in the Council of Control by increasing counsellers to 11, and I can see that most of them are with two assistants, not to have clearer numbers, but only something that may result in an increase in the cost of operating. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he can name us some Sik numbers in that topic. I hope he has some ideas for that, especially when it's the best. The secretary of finance is here on the bench. He must have ambition to have some idea what this will cost for a trust fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u23	A respectable president. It is quite clear, as I came into my case, that taking one service and changing it to two will have some additional cost. I've been calling the Chief of Justice. I mentioned a specific basic service that needs to be available in every department, such as holding special attention to the Ministry's operations. It must be examined to the extent to which the service performed by the head of the State Department's Office will be useful in two separate advisers and whether additional staff should be hired. But I encourage people to look at this in the greater context of things. I think we've done a little too much focusing on the potential economy that comes together with two Ministry Commissioners in one, but we've lost sight of the enormous profits we can achieve so many other places in the government business as we've been discussing in this context and other matters. [[The president calls.]] I share the purchases and so many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u24	President. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to sharpen this answer only. Was he talking about figures on a scale of 10 million a year, 50, 100? What numbers are we talking about? It is really reprehensible not to bring any ideas under this discussion from the highest level. Prime Minister in these matters. Then I'd like to stop for a moment at the top of the word exchange. Minister on what? paritaprevir My daughter, Birgitta Jónsdóttir on the most important job management. Prime Minister and ask, he may not have much time to sharpen how he sees the more role of ministers. He only killed it in reverse earlier. How does he support the professional management and integration role of prime minister in a new government?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u25	Madam President. I've tried my best to set up a major show that obviously will be new. Clearly, there is a new Ministry manager. The need for new staff members due to business separation must be further demonstrated after careful consideration by the Internal Affairs Department. This leads to the answer to the question, To what extent can economic economy be maintained? It is of course noted during the discussion that the government has proposed that ministers be able to use authority to ensure that each minister will have two assistants. It's not directly related to this case here, so it's indirectly related. But this will result in additional expenses. Nothing is trying to pull feathers over it. In contrast, we are going to achieve economic prosperity in many other parts of the government, which will be if, in a large way, we are going to achieve the economic situation that may result. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u26	A respectable president. Because we're dealing with the altered order of counseling and were referred to as president's decision on the separation of lawsuits, I hope I'm not the newcomer here at the council going out too rough by taking the opportunity to ask the highest level. A prime minister of sheer curiosity and kindly why is suggested in the Precinct that the Bank of Iceland is transferred to the Ministry of Directors instead of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u27	Madam President. I'm sure they'll react. First of all, it should be noted that Iceland's Secret Bank has often been heard under the Ministry of Presidency. In other words, the part of coordination in the general economy that leads to the position of the Ministry of Presidency can justify this on its own. Other than that, there is financial exchange between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Secret Service, which can give support to the better use of the Council of Presidency. Still, it is my opinion that it is extremely important that we continue to build up the financial and economic office and its ability to support ourselves in economic assessments and forecasts in general. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u28	A respectable president. Again: As just a member of the council, I now had just one question, and that answer is enough for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u29	Madam President. I think it'll be the most pleasant and pleasant discussion to hear. There's a secretary of finance here measuring the increase in government spending. [[Foreground on, Prime Minister.]] Prime Minister. And it is not just a booth but now built up by the Independence Party. And the argument is that there can be any alternative to the disaster. True, this is an unopposed one, but it can be arranged elsewhere. Would that not be possible anyway? Of course, the present government and the second before it, when a large amount of government expenditure is decided by having 11 ministers in eight Ministry. That's the cost of running at more than tens of millions, if not hundreds. It's the Minister, the Minister of Ministers, the secretary, two assistants, etc. But, of course, here is to go further and make two of the department's offices. A report with this suggestion suggests that there will be an additional cost. Otherwise, it really wasn't said at all, and it was all wrapped up here for the highest. Prime Minister earlier in answers. I ask, and that's a simple question, Madam President: Is this an acceptable cost assessment of this kind of government? [[The president calls.]] What has happened to the careful, high - cost estimates and proposals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u30	Madam President. I've traced it here in the context of this matter to the council. We are actually looking for the council's authority to attack a change that we can't do without the coming of the council. This differing department does not necessarily need more square feet each time. It is not necessarily that the operation of these components needs to be kept in separate directions. It may not necessarily take more specialists into the local Ministry of Justice in a special court case than we have today. None of this is default. Also, it is not necessarily that in 2017 the number of employees in the Ministry of Internal Affairs is the same as 2011. This may vary from time to time. I mention, for example, that because of foreign affairs, we have had to expand our lives on a federal committee. You could continue to count that. What I have noted is that these are small points in relation to the importance of our sharpening the political policy for the issues involved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u31	Madam President. We'll probably consider it better during the discussion below. But I do bear the highest. A minister has to say that this evidence is likely to be presented in many places. Where does it end? Has the highest. The government realizes that it is actually taking up a completely new course, in contrast with the one that has been guided by public traffic since collapse? And lessons from what was learned there, that we had too many and scattered units and weakened into complex modern administrations, and that should be organized and established together, thus strengthening the professional ability of the members. Now the government and, in fact, the first government has taken it back to full. Men are quick to forget. As I say, three hired men have been added to the Ministry. These are men who pretend to be particularly good at holding back their government expenses and making sure that the booth does not blow out. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, there are conflicting facts, but when we have more time in general, let us consider the professional arguments with and against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u32	Madam President. I agree that over the years, we've done too much of the business of breaking up the government in too weak units. I still agree with that. That's why we're like, for example. to conduct a review of the procedures of the DA's committees, which are over a dozen in the management system, many of the weak, many of those not meeting any treatment protocols, etc., and may have resulted in overexploited cases of expertise and being able to deal with complex issues. I also mentioned earlier in my speech that I think it would be good for me to take independent institutions and make them the agencies. It would promote the Ministry as administrative units and help to develop expertise there. None of this changes the fact that transport is not particularly comfortable with judicial matters, which is the basis for the change we present.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u33	A respectable president. In fact, this group of litigators, an order of recruitment at the Iceland Board, has been a great hobby for decades. When I read the history of the Council of the Board of Directors in 1904,1964, I realized that not everything was built up in Iceland's administration. On one occasion, a letter was produced at the Department of Industrial Affairs. As a result, the Ministry of Industrial Affairs came into existence. This was not done by convincing, or by a president's decision. In the beginning, it is a judicial office where Iceland's secretary and secretary is in charge. Work and transportation are in another office, and in a third office, there are finance, which are almost an inheritance of Danish rentukummer. This is the original constitution of the Board of Directors. It is only in the 1970's that the Board of Directors has stepped in. That'll be 13, 14 if I remember correctly, including... was one of the Ministry of Haguembourg of Iceland. Most of them were in the order that was then done well. But I remember that one case group was a little out of line with the Ministry's work, that was insurance, because insurance was put in the health and insurance department. Health and insurance agencies were primarily social insurance issues, but insurance is clearly behind financial markets. I believe that in the water of 2009 and 2010, people have gone a little out of line and planned to achieve almost an economic advantage that there would be three different agencies, i.e. Department of Internal Affairs, State Department of State and finance. But that was not the case. I believe those lawsuits that are here to be listed just don't have anything to do with each other. So it's time to split it up in a formal way. There is evidence to suggest that the case of the old Ministry of Justice has been overlooked in recent years for various reasons. A prime minister may later be traceable. I also believe that the President's decision at the beginning of the year was to bring the matter of the House Bank to the Ministry of Justice as the Ministry of Economic Affairs was correct. Bringing all created things under the Ministry of Economic Affairs during the last term was probably - I don't intend to guess why, but the conclusion was wrong. As was the case with the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office was not to be subject to the Ministry of Business at the time. What I believe now is the need to do as a result of what is being done here, and I suppose it will be enough by a presidency, to deliver financial markets from the Ministry of finance. These are issues at the Ministry of Business, which, unfortunately, have been less important. The holding of the banks today is not successful, as is the case with the Ministry of finance, as is rule. The property of all government companies has been placed under the legal Ministry of finance, these are government property. The Ministry of finance is a financial, property, remuneration and debt control, but the management of financial markets, i.e. Banks, insurance companies and other parts of the financial market aren't financial issues. They need to be transferred to the DC. I also agree with the highest words. Prime Minister on the expansion of the Ministry of Presidency. That office was formerly known as a National Organization. There was a fortune - tellr. In fact, a financial bill was placed in Haguems, and it was in good hands there, but Hagar is not a fortune - teller. Rather, it gathers information and does not really mean to look to the future. Therefore, the Economic Office of the Ministry of Presidency should be reinforced. So I continue to reflect on the order of recruitment, so I always find it hilarious to have a field of agriculture and seafood at one department, because the person who goes to the country to ask for a seafood-food vacation and he goes abroad to explain why there is no agricultural free trade in Iceland. It takes a man with a very split brain to back it up abroad. When it's logical in Iceland, it's always funny to me. In a few words, I'm going to enter one more case called travel. It so happens that in the global economy travel does not exist. Travel is a collection or a part of a number of litigation groups, such as air management, business, restaurant business, hotel business, etc. Together it's called travel. Standardization at least Air traffic and transport are certainly at home at the Department of Transport today, but this is not to say that the media are the same as it is in the market as it is at the home of the Department of Transport. I believe that what is being done here is an additional clearness in the administration. At times, humans must look for practical wisdom to end with terror. I don't think that the experiment that was made to destroy the Council of Government since 1970 did not result in economic or legal recovery. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u34	Mr. President. It always gets better. Here comes a member of the Independence Party, and I heard no better than that he was measuring out for some more new conferences. This is gonna be very interesting. Or it might be nice to look up the conference's talks when the Council was being discussed at the end of the month, most likely in 2011. They had quite a long discussion, if I recall correctly. Then it was no small deal. So I don't expect this to go through in just a few minutes now, we must give up under a comparable time to discuss this big case, change of the nominal text, now as it was done at the time. But let us not completely forget the reasons for the change in phases during the season of 2009-2013. Of course, there were many things. It was a need to manipulate every government in every place where it was possible and visible, and it was true that there was a hundred million dollars of that change. That's totally in the way. However, there was just as much professional evidence to support the fact that, in fact, there was. The report of the International Parliamentary Commission and the International Parliamentary Committee, who prepared the report, placed on the table for us that the weaknesses of the Icelandic government were very large, they were scattered, they were in small units, they were professionally unfashionable, and they needed an additive effect and strength to resolve the issues of complex modern government. And what was it like? Yes, we had a ministry of under 12, 15. There was a lot of office managers at the Board of Directors who were office managers over themselves or as good as anything. It's been a long time for this to happen. I believe the changes in the foundation were well prepared, well thought and given well. Well, well, the Ministry of Wells went on to include... ... becausethey knew the problems, the borders of health, social and health issues. One was that with the Ministry of Health, these boundaries were now covered by one Ministry. Is not there strong professional evidence to unite in one place the business matters on an equal scale as innovations? Yes, I would. People now say with the State Department that there are so different things that they don't have anything to do with each other. I'm not sure that the evidence is stronger in this case than in a number of other matters. This is the ministry of the interior of the country, the transportation, and would it be so unrelated that the politicians, law enforcement, police districts, and the like, meet together to the Ministry? There are also things in common when it comes to building up the interior and organizing such public service. I'd most likely have thought that if there was a need for additional services, at least. temporarily under the circumstances in Iceland, it would be a travel agency simply because this article has become important and important, and because it is so much reform, transformation, and growth. As it turns out, there could be good evidence to have independence, and I don't talk about if it became a powerful tourist minister, so that no more lost rivers would sink like the last term, where literally nothing happened to them. As a result, I remind me of the lessons we were trying to draw from this, to further strengthen the administrations, to unite institutions, and to unite agencies, to create the size of specialized staff, and there are many examples of this. As soon as the Ministry has become large and large, i.e. With 30, 40, 50 employees, or so, a legal office can be formed and some lawyers can be specialized in an independent agency, but it is hardly possible while working with 10, 15, 20 men. Of course, financial departments of such schemes become more powerful as they grow and are more involved, and that is not so. that need to be built up and increased by new laws on public finances? Of course, this new Ministry needs to build up some financial office. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Have people well considered where the same evidence could be applied today, to sharpen political policies, and to make this clearer? Is that not much more important? And how many advisers will we end up taking that approach all the way? I wondered what ideas the highest. A government has a final number of schemes. Should we go back to 12? They're on the long way through just raising the counsellors. However, there is a difference between installing two Ministers into one Ministry rather than creating it as an independent secretary. There is also the authority to appoint an assistant minister. That's what I think would be much better than evolution and more in harmony with what's in neighboring countries. There's a large and powerful Ministry, there's one chief minister, but he takes along moments one, two, three, and even more assistant ministers who care for specific matters within the Ministry, under the minister, and for his responsibility. Then the responsibility is clear, and there is no problem with it. The Minister of State Danski has three or four assistant ministers, if I recall correctly. This is how the Minister of Ministers is known. At the expense, I repeat my criticism, Mr. President, to this humble lawsuit or logical support of a report by the proposal. I don't think it's acceptable, I'm just gonna use Icelandic on that. I don't like the highest. Prime Ministers and former financial and economic minister are here offering a suggestion which is, of course, nearly covering over with vague expression that this is going to be a high cost. Yes, in part, the government has already decided this increased government spending -- congratulations on that, especially those liberals in the management team, it's only a good start for you - because by improving the minister himself at appropriate cost, and then the waitings when he leaves, there are two assistants, it is now very fashioning to hire two helpers immediately, some ministers of this government had not reached a day of office when they had hired two assistants, I noticed, that's a lot. In other areas, they may be this way. It's the secretary for the Minister, of course, it's the Minister's car driver, etc. This is a lot more than men want to be. I really think it's an unsurpassed cost analysis. It remains to be seen, says the Minister, when the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been better reviewed as to what this will mean and whether it needs to be filled with additional human beings, etc. In other words, this is not a professionally prepared decision under the council, which is based on careful analysis and the arrangement has been established. This is a political decision from the need to increase the number of stewards. It's just that way. It's right in front of us. Where's the diagnosis? Where's the planning? This all happens in a few days. I warn that men will go on an anniversaries in such things without trying hard to tell whether it's over the head that's smart. I say again, I would have rather liked men to take advantage of their authority to have the assistant minister side by side if they didn't trust in the project, think they can handle the Ministry, it's so big and complicated, we must somehow estimate that that this is the reason here, but would be careful to go back to the ministry. It would have to be my opinion that this will not lead to our going in the other direction with weaker administrations, more expensive at the same time, there will be less professional opportunities to deal with the complex issues of modern government, judicial procedures, etc., and, therefore, we'll go off in the opposite direction and land in the old business. I also think it's funny that the Independence Party, who knocked off and wanted to blunder off and reduce state activities, is a special advocate of this and who actually set off with the Council of Government in this direction, both during this term and the last. But it may be in those days that people now believe that we are now so rich again that we can give in to anything. The cost, however, is not the major factor in these matters to me. Of course, whatever it takes to have a powerful board of directors and well - built, authority, and authority, is needed. Our primary concern is to watch the professional aspects. That's where I have the most fundamental reason to believe that this is the right course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u35	A respectable president. The end of each talk is fine. A senator separates the business costs from the professional government. That's what we're trying to do about it. It is proper to remember that in itself another minister, as we have now been assigned, can be assigned to the Ministry. Of course, such a decision is involved: Yes, driver, yes, yes, secretary, and the one involved in such a decision. Thus, it is not necessary in itself to specify such factors when it comes to the question of creating from one State Ministry of Transport, either the local government or judicial matters, but other factors that have been brought together that would specifically be seen by man. What I simply want to stress is the political policy. There's no disagreement with me about strengthening the administrative elements we have. I mention that there are more ways to do this than put transportation together with judicial cases. Similarly, the reasoning that this is bad over the situation might be continued and asked: "Why, then, did it just not go further? Why don't we have three or four departments? Do we need 63 senators? I think we're here for a very logical change that even leads to... of new emphasis on changing projects that have become more burdensome. This is not such a fundamental change that it will lead to new ministers coming. Rather, it is a matter that can be carried out without a suggestion for the replacement. [[The president calls.]] This is primarily to strengthen the administration of each administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u36	Mr. President. I'm not going to argue that there has become some physical laws that the Ministry should be eight. However, we do well to ask ourselves: " If we are to increase the number of recruitments, is it really beyond doubt that the need is the most? Is it? I'm not necessarily sure. If we look at the Council as it is now, of course, there are in the Department of Employment and Business Department the biggest factors in the past in many problems, although it has already moved only into the financial and economic facilities and to the area. But not long ago, there were three, four Ministryes. Is it not, then, that it is difficult for one, as it is, now two active ministers, to have a view of it all? Is it so impossible to look at the details of the infrastructure, judicial cases, and transportation matters, some of which seem completely unrelated, but in other respects, there are things in common at the end of the day? I think, for example. I think it's okay to have the local government over there. Civil government, transportation, and justice, as well as a service in the justice system, legislators and districts and such, this is not an indiscriminate thing to do, it is not to be found in the scattered population. I don't think so. I don't think it's a well-prepared change. I still have a lot of sellable or buyable arguments, I would like to say, and suspect the highest. Governments that this is primarily for political reasons. It had to somehow be found that the Independence Party could get the sixth minister, it was so lean that he had just as many as the others, it caused a serious confusion in the backyard as it is known. These are official things. I'm not telling you a rumor. It's been in the papers. This had to be the landing, that they had to press in additional Ministers at the State Department, and then subject themselves to the Ministry of State. [[The president calls.]] It's expensive, I think, when it comes to solving political involvement in the government class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u37	Mr. President. According to this synoptic proposal, an increase of the budget should be made from eight to nine. I'm not going to discuss the order or the final number. I'm going to discuss a new travel agency that would have belonged here in the document. I've been talking about it for a long time, and I can say that the tourists in tourism want it. I've watched the development of tourism for 30, 40 years, and I've watched these established institutions, especially in the board of directors, who have been in the past. It has really been a small emphasis on travel, and perhaps it can be said that most of the time they were not a very large part of our economy but now they have. It's for a travel agency. It's for travel Control. There's a guide in a travel service. There are laws on the national structure of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory. All of this is a measure of progress, but much more is needed. The administrative center is an introductory setting, but it is not intended to take over the duties and duties of the administrative system or its stakeholders, as it says in a presentation. She is controlled by four advisers. I haven't seen much of this board of directors, and I'm sure she's done her work well, there's a lot of work going on, but I think this order is too weak. The base will operate until 2020. Then you ask yourself, " What then? ' Even in one or two years, when the office of the Ministry should have been carefully organized, trying to complete that job by 2020. The situation in travel services is well considered to be of great concern to many people, whether in travel or in the outside. As to this, many media have daily heard of a variety of unacceptable conditions that can even be stumbled. If you draw this together, you can say that we have not been able to react to the growth of tourists. The self - esteem we have set as a goal is more in word than on a table and often wants to be forgotten that sustainability is not only about nature, it is also about social factors and it is about economic factors. The infrastructure, not everywhere, but largely in many parts of the world and by no means in the process of evolution. The safety of tourists is not sufficiently secure, and funding is too small for the article, both in the private sector and in the public sector. There are exceptions, too. It is true that tourism is very varied, but it is wrong. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason said this is basically about transportation and land. This is so much, much more, and just because of the variety of tourism and the need to find a place in the Management Board. Mr. President. During the next few years, tourists will quickly increase to 2 million, since 4, 6, we have even seen higher numbers for 2040. It is obvious that the uses involved in tourism have limits such as any other natural and cultural or social use. We can also say that pressures on land and people are very different. The largest complex sector of employment needs obvious control of the organization, natural use and resources of any kind, as there are special travel agencies in Iceland. They're being revised. Another project for a careful discussion that I have discussed is the restitution of the world's institutions involved in natural resources. It has even been called a resource agency. I'm going to allow myself here, Mr. President, to refer to the opinion of the former geochemist, the Sveinn of Runólfsson, who sent the Environment and Resource Ministry about two years ago. It says, by permission of the president: The Agency is proposed to set up a resource agency that will provide protection and restore the resources of the land, vegetation, soil, freshwater water, nature, along with the management of important areas owned by the State. It will become a knowledge, construction and service agency in this field. Under it, all land - healing materials from the State's Land-Greets that may be added to the protection and restoration of ecosystems, forestry and national forests, national deforestation projects, Hiklu forests, the issues of the Hunting Environment Agency, the natural protection factor now fostered in the EEA, and the fields of flora, landscape protection, biodiversity and so forth. Under it would also hear the operation of national parks, including the Lake Earth's national parks. More important, in the new institution, it would be as much as any of the issues involved in the protection of tourism, tourism, and the pressures of tourism, as well as the extracurricular efforts to correct what has gone wrong. It is stated that knowledge will occur in one place and experience in all projects will depend on protecting nature, vegetation and soil from increasing tourism. The idea of a new resource agency is not a new phenomenon, and it in itself provides a careful discussion, as I say. This is why and in the hope that such changes may cost a lot of money, but it is quite clear, even when people are only looking at national parks, that it is easy to mention seven, eight, nine organizations and the names of machines on these vital aspects of tourism and all the cultures of the country. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I'm going to hope that we have the wisdom to carry this case further during the council and to the highest degree. A government takes into account that it is long since time for a travel agency in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u38	A respectable president. I'm going to say something about this synonym, which I'm very happy to have come up with. I agree with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, I believe it's advisable to engage in a riot. Nevertheless, I have always spoken for the practicality of government management and economic management. The report discusses the importance of supporting services for all the Ministry and working in a practical way. That preparation has taken place for some time and is, I think, absolutely necessary to increase production, efficiency and cost management. I did not participate in the discussions about collaborating advice at a time like that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, but I studied that subject in my studies, including The report on the joint administration. I'm happy to be in a state-of-the-art application, as shown in the discussions that have been here on the trade department and again in the discussions about a special agency on travel. I have not been its special spokesman, and I feel that the pros have the best place in one department. I spent a long time working as a support worker, and you can see the extent to which the sector functions overlap. I've been talking about them being in one department. My experience as a platoon leader tells me, and we at the state level have often discussed that the Ministry of State is simply too large, too widely distributed, and too much of a lawsuit to work as it should. I think it would be wise to look for transport and communications, and then the local government, to be in a special Ministry and then the judicial hearings in other places, but we have been under great pressure on our judicial system on foreign affairs and other matters. I like these changes. I would also like to stress that they will follow the emphasis that has been given in the administrative studies on the same-armed administration. I want us to look at electronic administration specifically and that we need to get on with it. It greatly increases the cost of government management and the success of electronic administration as well as the importance of having a specific central control in such areas. That's why I think it's very important to look at the big picture when we talk about the Management Board and the government, that there's a special expertise in this category, but that common factors, such as the computer and information, and you can also mention the human resources and human resources offices that have been discussed for a long time, pay, financial, and so on - I think it's important to keep these factors in mind. We must continue to sharpen prime minister and secretary of finance for good works at that work. I don't think I'm going to say any more about it for a while than I'm celebrating a future conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's comments on the matter and especially wants to agree with her comments about electronic administration. On the other hand, there is a tremendous lack of knowledge among employees and understanding within the system as a whole of how electronic management is going to work. The person standing here has only made changes within the institutions of the administration. Ideas about how electronic management is very different among those who are familiar. I'd like to ask, in terms of the expenditures that the current government is going to take, in terms of health, innovation, and the like: Is there room for good injection in electronic administration properly, not just pdf and word-written documents, as well as, in fact, re-educed staff at the same time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've been a great spokesman for the fact that we've increased electronic administration, and, yes, I believe there's room to deal with that. Whether we agree exactly and whether everyone agrees on what is the right way in this regard, I don't dare say. But we see so many opportunities for economic management, and especially better services, except for the transparency and importance of our management being all transparent and open. I welcome our mutual interest in this subject, and I don't doubt that he's in different parts of the council, and I hope he's in the council too. That's exactly why I was talking about the importance of being a central entity at the Board of Staff that kept up with these matters, we wouldn't be picking up the wheel in each Ministry as much as in each department administration itself, as I've discussed in the field, but we'd build up a central knowledge and skills that will be used in all the resources and in the public sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u41	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with every word. However, it is written that the cost will be very high in terms of education and reeducing employees and spending time on the job. These factors should not be minimized. It is true, however, that in the future this certainly creates economy, not only money but, of course, information resources for the general public and the general government. How important it is, then, that we have the courage to go to the initial cost of such things that are not going to be low and not easy. Thank you very much, and I hope to have a good cooperation in the seminary at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u42	Mr. President. Of course, it will be interesting to see what comes out of experiments to integrate the administrative organisation and to add something to the whole board of directors. I think it's interesting, and I'm sure it's taken care of. This may not be new. In other words, the Ministry of Presidency was adding its role as an integrator to the prototypes and the like. But I warn of optimism, extreme vision, that it becomes quite easy, that there is a particular experience. It was no bigger than the Board of Directors' car business, and we decided to get them out of the way and unite the car under one unit at the Board of Directors, and then the Ministry wanted to take over his cab and driver, and many more stories would tell about it. The problem is, I feel that part of me is going in the opposite direction. If we accept the government laws on public finance, they are actually assuming to promote the Ministry and their independence in that area at least Neither will it be overlooked by a certain size or professional match within a larger and broader scheme. It's a dead end. Take it, for example. It's just the management office of the council or the operating field. The Ministry is often built up so that there are several vertical offices with a major subject, and then there are fields or offices that are cross-cutting, such as the Ministry's field of management. I referred to the law as an example of a field that can be very practitional to cross the office at the Ministry, where the Ministry is large enough to stand under two, three, four, legal field or office. I can only see that the entire Ministry must now set up a budget or a financial office to handle its role on the basis of the laws on public finance. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator named the Human Resources case, the staff case. All of this is much easier and more practitiony to do in large, broad, and powerful plots than in many little people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u43	A respectable president. Hv. A senator named here attempts to coordinate the minister of the driver and the Board's car fleet. I must admit that I had no particular knowledge of it, and I find it really halfhearted if it hasn't worked out. Just so I'll take it down a little bit in this report that I referred to earlier on a coordinated government, which was probably won by a government of some kind. A senator was involved, the very focus was on progressive human government in the Council of Government. It was also stressing the possibility of improving the flow of workers between the advisers so that expert knowledge could vary when appropriate. The importance of the Ministry is spoken of as being able to include cross-cutting analyses, policy-and-work teams within the Council of Control. Improving the re-education of employees is essential, but we may only enter it. on electronic administration. The Ministry also needs to be encouraged to maintain good cooperation and to avoid being blocked by law and regulations. The central role of the Presidency and financial advisers and their cooperation must be better explained so that there can be a good link between government policy and budget proposals to the Council. I believe that the suggestions presented here can be very compatible, but as I mentioned earlier, I further encourage prime minister and finance minister to keep a tight grip on central service and to maintain it where there is some economic development and coordination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u44	Mr. President. I would have felt a little different if this proposal had come out after the government had been working for a year and we'd be even. Starting to see some of the results of this effort to cross-cutting in the Board of Directors, what would have come out of it, etc. But here, in the first few days of a new government for political reasons. There was one service chair that needed. This is very subversive, cost estimate is not intended for the report of the proposal, etc., so I also find myself critical of these substances. I think it would be fine if we took the time to review these matters. Nothing is unchanging, and the times change, and new things can, of course, bring about a new organization in the Council of Control. This should be done carefully and carefully considering and based on analyses and policies and, for example, something that is then set up, such as that it is entirely prior to the disintegration of the Internal Affairs Ministry in Humanity and Organization. Is there a chart of these two new conferences? No, I guess not. When something has gone into the stitches of different parts, it will be humanized, etc.? No, it's not. Of course, we do well to start by asking ourselves the question: " If I need to increase my schedule, where is the first place to start? If the right government wants to blow out slightly, increase the budget, where is the most necessary start? In many ways, I agree with what was presented in the language of the day. A senator on professional matters. I believe and still believe that there is strong evidence to unite in a single Ministry of Professional Affairs and not even mention it specifically in the vows, that is later, a bastard who had to be joined by two Ministers in the Ministry, and the innovation. It's going very well together. But I agree, too, that if there's an urgent need for a new office temporarily in Iceland, it's in the travel. I would support the temporary presence of a travel independent agency while we are mastering the growth in that article and the countless challenges there, that would be justified, and I would not have started making a new Minister in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u45	A respectable president. We're out of business. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon explains this. I think it's best to start with this place, but not at the Department of Employment with the arguments I mentioned earlier. I'd also like to reroute what was presented in a lawsuit. A senator, that these were some operations to add to the minister. As you can see, you can do it without changing this arrangement. I've heard it from my study in the past that there is a reason to break up the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I have also heard from former advisers who have taken this office that they feel it's very important and that there is good reason to consider the exchange. So I don't think it's really doing anything at all. Whether the preparations could be somehow different, that may well be, and I think we just need to go over it here. But I'm still convinced that this is the place to start and that it's normal to break these big and important issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u46	A respectable president. All I wanted was to get involved in this first story. of the Parliament's decree for a change in the Council of Control. I've been listening to the discussion. There are many things that have come to pass, and many times we go in two directions. On the one hand, people try to have a system economy and, at the same time, to create a large and powerful Ministry with sufficient knowledge, but in some cases, according to government emphasis or perhaps simply because of the changed times, to go in the other direction, to put more and more emphasis on certain issues, to take them out of the greater context they are in. This often conflicts, so it is not easy to deal with. In 2011, I thought that many things that were then done were not necessarily reasonable. And not all has proved to be good. Then there was a tendency to expand the seminaries, to try to create economy, which I'm not sure has always paid off in the end. Still, the conclusion is that even though we have some very large ministry, there are too few people there. In these last and worst times, we are increasingly demanding that the management board be professional and that there is a great knowledge, but in many cases, in many cases, the knowledge of one employee. If he goes out because of his age or because of some other career or occupation, the knowledge is often gone from the Ministry. Of course, that's a problem. The claim, then, may be to create an even larger Ministry. The government at that time will highlight a number of lawsuits, but there will simply not be room for one minister or can be with one minister unless we would change other factors so that more people would come with the minister who would have their fingers and eyes on the affairs in the area. I agree with the idea that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is too big and that it is essentially too different. So I have a clear understanding of the suggestion to make a legal hearing with other cases that might relate to it. The problem, of course, will be that there will be a relatively small Ministry and not according to the department. There is also the fact that the Environment Ministry has not grown too much, although there are quite a wide range of problems. After being assigned to serve as a minister during the last term, I wondered how I would like to see the dissociation of the system as it seems, and I look at who's the most reasonable of what is. But I also find it normal for a government at any given time to wonder how its emphasis would be best, including, if any, at any given time. with an exchange of issues between counseling, possibly dissociating individual advisers, without ever going to be a circle. Then we come to what may be most important, and we actually changed the constitution to the purpose of the last term so that it would be easier to move between employees. One of the problems with the Icelandic government, and many others are that the Ministry is a little stuck in its silos, they don't talk to one another enough. There's not enough flow between us, even though we've been trying it in a particular group of languages, I'm calling the local language where there's a operating network between all recruitment devices. It seems to be working, but it takes time to develop it. Therefore, I understand that it is wise to examine the Board's headquarters. It is also a project that we had studied here for a few years. I have a complete understanding of that. When we get to the point where we're talking about what's the most wise way to split up in the present situation, I have to say, just as it is, that I thought there could have been some other way in it, have a different replacement. But if the current government's focus is to create a hearing on the Ministry of Justice, it's her decision, and it's done by making a conquistador proposal for the council. I think it's necessary and sensible, as many others have mentioned, and we advanced men have spoken before, including in the campaign, establishing a travel agency, not by itself. I could well have imagined that transportation was there. It would also have been possible for the travel and the Environment Ministry to gather there in order to create a larger and more equal agency. However, I would have chosen it to be for the Department of Transport and Transport. Let me tell you a very brief story about where it originated. A few years ago, I was at Malta at the North Atlantic High Secretary of the Sea of England. There was a European secretary for fishing, a Maltman, Karmenu Vella, who made good contact with the days following the conference. Iceland and I have talked about how Iceland cannot accept the 2 million tourists who come here, but Malta is the size of the Holutun, 0.6% of Iceland, with an estimated 3 million tourists each year. Vella showed me the tourism service on the island, saying: "We made the mistake when the tourism began to flourish in Malta, a nation with a population of 400 thousand who have 3 million tourists, that we set the travel into the industrial and commercial department. I just slid over my mouth and didn't say anything. He continued: "Then we saw ourselves and in order to deal with this industry, which plays into so many of the society in the councils, we set up a special Ministry around our largest industry. Since then, I have had a little crush on the idea that such a thing needs to be done, although only while building up wood and the structure needed to be around the travel. Me and the laymen have spoken of the need to do so. We would have chosen that this would have been done, even if the Ministry of Justice was taken out, and that would mean more departments. There's one thing. Then, if we're going to try to hold on to a ministry as large as possible in the name of economy and knowledge and a possibility of having more than one employee in each expertise, I think we need to change the board of directors so that there are two Ministry Directors in each department. That assessment is based on my experience with my last term. If we don't have two Ministry Department directors, at any rate, to create some means in which the Ministry Department's office's replacement would have the rank of the Ministry as if it weren't. I think it's wise, necessary, and I think it's the only alternative against replacing all the big plots again, to continue trying to develop the administration. The purpose and aim must be to promote professional knowledge, to increase cooperation between the advisers so that the Council works as a whole. In part, I think that the way we are most useful in this regard, but in other respects it does not solve the problem we face in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on finance policy development for the year 2017/2022, found on deck. 123. Economic policy for the next five years has developed policies that the government will follow for the survival and debt development of Part A and Part A, part of a rural society, i.e. Public, public, and public bodies at all, i.e. Also agencies, funds, and companies that are half or more owned by a state or community. The aim of the policy is to promote economic balance in the economy and sustainableity and stability in public finance. The need is for financial policy to support the money policy and national balance goals, including those for the sake of money policy. ... byprojection of demand compression. A financial policy should be submitted as soon as possible after the development of a government and was submitted on the first day after the assembly following the formation of a government. The policy should define goals related to the extent, supply and development of property, debt and long-term commitment of the public and public organisations in general and should be shorter than five years of age. Budgetism should be based on baseline levels of short and long-term public commitments, general care, such as the balance between income and pay, economic stability, policy firmness, and the implementation of public financial and transparent programmes which include: in clear and measurable goals for a long time. The preparation of this policy was made with Iceland's Secret Bank, the representative of the rural communities, and economic scholars. The budget shall be submitted to the General Assembly no later than April 1 and shall be established on current financial policy. The fiscal plan suggests further implementation of financial policy targets and further economic policies on income development, pay and the economy of public organisations. The financial policy is based on Iceland's National Institute of Economics from November 2016 for a peak economic growth in 2016 and 2017, near 5%, and for about 3% in the latter part of the period. These are due to increased tensions in labour markets and housing markets, especially in the capital area. Increasing travel services have resulted in much support for the crown's gangs. The risk of continued thawing and the fact that a crown's gang is weakened is weakened by the export and competitive status of the future. The late bank has responded to warning signs by means of actions in financial matters and by purchase of foreign currency. The current currency market state gives clear reason to believe that exporting status and stability in the economy could be compromised if the expansion is not supported by a targeted management of public funds. Clearly, with more force than has been done, the management of the Sensitian Bank is a challenge. due to the risk of further reducing the motivation of domestic investors to raise money abroad while attracting foreign capital access. This would contribute to the sponsorship of the crown. Great and sustained growth differences in other countries have also been the long - term failure to kill in reduced investments in innovation and sceptres on which future economic growth needs to be increasingly based. Thus, in view of the current prospects, it will be important that the government is behind the economy in order to maintain stability, as well as that public funds work through the Segressor's financial policy to make it necessary that the management of interest does not necessarily have to be higher to weigh the potential tensions and promotions. It is also important that lower interest levels have a positive effect on the interests of homes and businesses. The increase in government management in the years that this financial policy involves will contribute to these goals. In this regard it is well to remember that the decrease in interest by one percentage is thought to be able to improve the quality of an enterprise by less than 30 billion dollars. This year, and increased provision for households is approximately 1171,3%. So there is much to compete for. Analysts agree that future losses will require harmonization of economic instruments in a consistent way to prevent compression and overheating. The growth of tourism inevitably has a substantial impact on other employment sectors, including in competition for labor and funding. In all likelihood, further funding would have a negative impact on the arrival of tourists in the country over the years as well as on other exports with the expected economic contractions. Although substantial pay increases in 2015 and 2016 have not yet resulted in high inflation, it is important not to negotiate pay rates for future losses beyond national prices and production. The financial policy is based on practical economic predictions for the entire period of predicting. Disturbing the priorities of the forecast can affect policy course. This is when the emissions of capital waste and the balance of payment also mattered greatly. It is stated that the resistance capacity of the economy is at the highest level and that the position of public financial trust can be used to counteract contractions and even to meet larger events that history shows can operate at several decades apart. It is vital that we continue to ensure that the best of public living and work diligently to lower public debt and prepare for building a stable fund. The policy aims them for the overall survival of the public, i.e. Part A of the state's budget and Part A of your rural society will be positive for at least 1% of gross domestic product in the current year and at least 1.6% of 2018 and 2019 years. During the years that follow, a gradual reduction of 0.1% of GDP is expected to occur as a result of a decline in the economy. This aim corresponds to a total drop in the state's budget of 25 to 6 billion dollars. During the first two years, there will be reductions in terms of fixed prices. Agricultural recovery is expected to be stable in 2017, but in the light of economic prospects and predicted growth in rural income groups, it is aimed at achieving a 3 billion - year share of their activities. positive overall survival in 2018 i.e. about 0.1% of gross domestic product, and about 5 to 6 billion dollars. Annually thereafter, i.e. which corresponds to about 0.2% of GDP. This change will be used to reduce the debt of the government to a legal debt. At the same time, growth in government investments is being followed by economic growth over the period. Keep in mind that while the policy has to be left behind on the global balance of the public, much of it can be attributed to a favorable fluctuation. If corrected, it may be estimated that the goods of the Kingdom were in irons. Therefore, it would be unwise to set up new and permanent expenditures on the basis of these consequences, and it could be said that valid evidence is there for the use of financial recovery in subsidies in subsidies rather than that lowering interest charges will lead to the growth of primarys. One important aspect of financial policy is the aim for all irregular financial incomes and other subsidies to be spent in the reduction of debt or pension bonds. Caution and firmness need to be exercised. It is probable that there will be some balances on the total public living of an enterprise in the current year and that the result will be in irons in 2018 due to large investments. However, in the latter part of the period, they should have yielded some rest. It is necessary to ensure that the activities of an enterprise in the public, but not against the established economic goals. It is difficult to use the ideal maintenance level in these companies over the next few years where there is a great need for infrastructure development, to form in the field of air transport and energy sharing, as well as to have to be completed in the development of existing energy sources. Decisions on new investments need to be based on clear interest users, and they need to be timed in the context of the economic outlook. At the same time, it is aimed that the official annual total cost will not exceed 41.5% of GDP over time, and spending will not increase beyond the actual growth of national production in order to promote stability and stability. It is estimated that more than 41% will be in 2017, but it will be less than 40% in 2022, compared with the underlying national economy. The objective of the decision not to increase beyond 41.5% of GDP is not to include determination to increase from the present level but intended to set clear outer limits on public activities. Sets a debt target which includes the total share of State Fund A in the period from about 38% of GDP at the end of 2016 to 21% of gross domestic product at the end of 2022. To achieve such a challenging goal, more is needed than leftovers per year, i.e. which corresponds to about 250 billion dollars. ... accumulatedovertime. The decrease in the debt ratio leads to part of the estimated growth of GDP over the period, but in addition, there is the rest of the operation, the provision of irregular revenues, such as interest, and loans reimbursement. Possessions, which were part of stability production from the bank's broken - down population, will be converted into free funds, which will be used to reduce debt. It should be noted that their solutions do not lead to an increase in the amount of money in the circulation or have an inducing effect. The agreement between the state and rural society in relation to the contributions of the financial programme for 2017-2021 indicates that the development of the A- and B-part municipal activities is sustainable in the sense that their debt as a proportion of GDP is further reduced by one percentage of GDP in the period. The debt of the government leaves about 44% of gross domestic product at the end of 2016 to 26% of gross domestic product in 2022. Including public companies, the total debt of government funds is reduced by 24 percent of gross domestic product over the period, ranging from 67% of the published production at the end of 2016 to 43% at the end of 2022. At this time, there is a work to develop a budget for the state's funds, which will be published no later than in the Treaty of 2017, which will be submitted no later than June 2018. Then they will have to set out policies on the scope and development of government property and rural society, as the law expects them to do. Official financial laws require that the objective of financial policy on the part of government citizens be in accordance with three main financial regulations. Rules require that the total balance of the government over a period of five years be positive and that the annual peak in total balance will never exceed 2.5% of gross domestic product. The policy assumes that the equation will be positive in the course of the period, with this rule respected. The rules of debt require that the total debt of the government, apart from the debt of Pension and Business bonds and the dissociation of funds and bank accounts, be less than 30% of the gross domestic product. It appears that in 2017 the government's debt status on this level will be 7% higher than the financial rules set, but it will be targeted at this peak by the end of 2019. The target of a 30% debt rate to the maximum means that debt is always below that goal, but it is essential that it usually be well up to the longer term. It may therefore be wise to aim for a 20% debt share in order to allow room for public finances to be used to prevent or weighed against economic contractions. It is not unrealistic to believe that the state's clean debt will be in less than a decade, as the government's declaration of policy. The commitment rule says that debt is reduced by at least For each three year, 5% of the debt and the debt targets average each year. By the means of financial policy targets, legal requirements for the reduction of debt are met. A respectable president. The growth of government loans is the third largest cost of health and welfare expenses. Loyalty to financial management, debt subsidies, and measures to reduce growth will enable us to increase the cost of welfare. Economic growth thus becomes high enough to allow for an increase in government costs. The government will prioritize it for the sake of their priorities, especially health, well-being and education. A respectable president. Hv. Senators. Economicism is a very important document, for it sets the standard for government finances in the years to come and for all the current terms. It is an important economic instrument, so it is necessary for the senators to look it over in the weeks to come. In this context, it is especially important to note that now the so - called financial Council has been set for the first time since the execution of the law on public finances. Investigated by independent experts, financial advisers are appointed. The Council has two weeks from the proposal to make financial policy to explain whether the policy meets the requirements of the law, especially that its policy is self-sustained, cautious, stable, firm and transparent. [[The president calls.]] As such, I suggest that the matter be passed on to a second. and Fundament Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I would like to ask specifically about the Part III in the financial policy he has recommended, which says: ▪ All irregular and uniting funds in the state's budget will be spent to further speed up debt or to reduce unfunded pension bonds in order to trust the financial status of the state's budget and reduce interest costs. Secular funds cannot be used, general agreement has been made during the council; however, it has been considered perfectly normal to spend such funds on what we can call foundation projects. For example, we're looking at an unfinal transport program here, we're looking at a substantial basic cost of the system, and I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister of what to do, since there is no part of this money under policy spent to put into such investments, in view of all that a new government has said about the importance of investments. Why is it reasonable to assume that there is no room for making the same use of these funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u49	Thank you. A senator for the question. When we are making a decision on expenses, we can decide that we will either use the money to subsidize debt - thus reducing the future cost of the state, thus allowing more to be spent on the good things mentioned here. This is the course taken last summer when financial and financial policies were adopted and followed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u50	Mr. President. I understand that answer. The secretary of finance so that the last government's policy will remain unchanged, so the changes involving a new government are, in fact, no greater than those that he intends to adopt the financial policy of the last government. It's just fine to get it confirmed, it's actually in the spirit of what I've thought to be, and then it's already in place. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of one who has served as a spokesman for a much improved operation at the General Assembly and spoke to them extensively. It was suggested that laws on public finances were adopted, on which this strategy is based, that for the law to achieve its purpose, and that the Council could perform its necessary role in strengthening the rank of the General Assembly, it would have to be funded to allow members of the Parliament to have access to further specialists, just as was done for all the Ministry, who received a special reserve for bringing in the law on public finances, for some reason, to the project paid for similar support to the General Assembly. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: Will he take advantage of further financial support by the Council for the Commission to grant the Commission a normal arrangement that has now received much more role in the new legal environment so that members of the Parliament can carry out the duties they have sworn to the Constitution to fulfill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u51	A respectable president. Of course, it is important to make the most of our consultations with the council. I started this morning by presenting to the panels of minorities at the General Assembly for a meeting in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to introduce the policy presented here today. I do not reduce the importance of the members of this matter as best they can, and it is as best discussed between the Ministry and the members of Congress, wherever they stand, about that policy. However, it should not be forgotten that once the policy has been adopted, it is not just a government policy but a policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u52	Mr. President. A report by policy shows that if we were to correct the balance of the state's budget for the economy, the operation would be iron. Therefore, it would be unwise to set up permanent spending on the basis of the rest of the economic crisis. One of the baseline values under this course under law is careful. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether it is consistent with the baseline and the status described in the report on the policy of establishing permanent health costs, education and aging issues, so I mention something of what is spoken in the government's policy declaration. Is the situation adjusted for the economy, the message that we are not going into a permanent increase in welfare?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u53	A respectable president. I'm glad this shows up. Of course, building wood like wood is very important for the future. A senator stands out in his opposition. I think we agree on the need for this, and there will be no compromising of that policy on the part of the government. But I don't think it would be very safe to leave - I don't quite know if the senator would want the rest to be greater, in contrast with the counter. But I think this is where we're talking about one way between maintaining state-of-the-continental policy and also developing social policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u54	Mr. President. Of course, tax and tax changes could be taken so that the rest would be greater and more allowed when we're in this place in the economy. There's talk of danger here because of the currency, because of the sponsorship, due to the influence of tourism on these objects. We know that the insuficiency of tourism also affects housing markets, etc. It's called in policy. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he will take the initiative to deal with this problem, that the devices we possess, such as the one we have. an increase in taxes or a decrease in taxes or incentives that we can apply to our job life and to try to control the current trend will be used to address the safety signals described in the report by the policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u55	Mr. President. It is not planned to reduce taxes or to raise them substantially. However, it is stated in government policy that we might change the taxation. We'll talk there, for example. about green taxes. We're talking about a different price on a fishing road. We're talking about collecting fees for tourists, e.g. with parking fees. However, it is also said that the insurance bill will be reduced safely during the term. So the answer is no. The entire income will still have a similar degree of size.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. I took note of his comments on pay development. I wanted to make sure I heard the right thing because it's just a little important. I heard the highest. A minister says that pay development should not exceed inflation. This would then likely mean a failure or a decrease in commercial power in the overall sense. Furthermore, in the text of the proposal, by permission of the president, I made a decision that will make an irregular and split budget to be spent on subsidies. There I leave an interesting word that I like.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u57	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his answer. That's not quite true. It was called inflation goals, increases in growth or growth. It is the sustainable growth of commercial resources that we are talking about. Of course, it is not meant that it is merely worthy. Like what? A senator may be aware that in the long run, if you look at it, it would be as much about 15 to1.5% that buying might increase. This has been the experience of us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u58	President. I appreciate this explanation. It's very important that she showed up. The second thing I'm going to do in the motion is exactly the total recovery of 2018 and 2018, estimated to be 1.6% of GDP. This is now to occur in conjunction with health, education, innovation, transportation, and so forth. This is, in fact, a requisite charge of government funds beyond the percentage that has been going on over the past few years. I just wanted to know about the amount of money that comes with this, because these are large amounts of money, e.g. which is required in the setting of health care matters, and there is 1.6% of this small amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u59	A respectable president. You're right, it's real money. It comes largely from a decrease in interest. You can expect a 10% or so decrease in government debt, that is, 8 billion k. Hopefully, we are able to achieve even greater reductions with improved loans of state funds and decommission. But it's clear that we're talking about approximately 13 billion that must be achieved, so we need to find some 5 billion by means of a different kind. That's where we've talked about, for example. increase of supply and management of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Minister for your excellent review. Just first, I may well have been misheard, but it may be that a minister has been talking about the rest of the government budget's management of about a total total of 25 to 5 billion dollars. for the first two years, but in the report, is 25◯43? Is there any discrepancy between what is in the Senate document and what was said? Another one. The late bank has criticized the aim of making a profit - making increase, has said that the policy target appears to be preconceived to the cost balance of public financial income and that if economic growth is more powerful, it should yield to income and even more likely to be cut down if economic crisis is not as positive as it is hoped. What's going on? Ministers to the Council Bank's criticism of the policy set in financial policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. This difference in numbers is likely due to the development of others on the basis of 2016, i.e. That was 25 billion. If we climb 1% to 1.5%, it's 37.5 billion. I assume that in the other case, in terms of inflation and economic growth are expected at less than 5%. I suppose this will explain the difference. Wait a minute, that was the requirement... [[... criticism of the Secret Bank.]] Yes, the Secret Bank is critical. It is true that we spoke to the Secret Bank and received a repetition of criticism before the present year, but it was said that for the next year, this would be an adequate maintenance, especially if it had been enough for a year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u62	A respectable president. In fact, I understand this so that to some extent, the harbor bank is critical of the fact that the increase in income has been put on these limits. It's just a political decision made by the government. For answers only to the highest. Ministers are good; others are more hairy. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter came, e.g. of the highest. A minister was going to use the council to get the needed support they needed to look into such documents properly. Although it's a meeting with the highest. Such support is not replaced by a minister. Only the income at the end. Was it never possible to tax the most valuable property in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u63	Mr. President. I thank the senator for this trial of the previous question. There has been no specific announcement from the Council or request for additional support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u64	You can take the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u65	The heads of the classes have taken the initiative, e.g. by writing to the Council's Presidency Committee that payments for Congress will be cut down. This would likely involve savings that would be useful for other action on the behalf of the council if the prime committee is to be followed by this recommendation by the prefects who have already taken this initiative. I expect, however, that cooperation will be good. These are the perfunctory questions raised and I expect this will continue to be a perfunctory debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u66	At a meeting of the State Department earlier today, Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnnardóttir was elected president of the Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason I, vice president of the United States and Vice mayon Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. At a meeting of the European Parliament's Committee for Parliaments and the EEA, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was elected president of the Committee and Deputy Director Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u67	Madam President. Here is a proposal for a conference resolution on financial policy in accordance with official financial legislation. What must be kept in mind before we discuss this suggestion in particular is the background, which is the legal guide for public financial matters. There was, of course, no single thought at a Senate Hall on the financial principles that became legal in the frame of law under a certain total balance, a certain debt status, and conditions. This was a significant step in the hall when we discussed the public financial laws and were criticized by various economists for this precise point, i.e. The financial order like that. The financial rules set out in the public financial law are enormously political rules. These are specific economic goals that I would have considered normal not to be legal in the way that is set up in the government law on public finances, but to be part of the financial policy of every government. I find it unnatural in itself to legalize such goals in the way that government laws were made. I believe it will interfere with the administration's freedom at any given time in order to use the economy to fluctuate. We immediately see this suggestion that a policy presented here for the precise appearance of these legal objectives. I'm not gonna call it the highest. Of course, it's under the laws that were approved by the Council of the Year, but I don't think that enough debate has been made about the goals, to form, in the community. Although these issues were taken up by some media, it was extremely limited. This is actually a legal policy for specific economic policy. No matter what political opinion you have, you can wonder how normal it is to legalize such a course. At the time, it was answered that a new understanding of the goals might be being made, but I read this suggestion that there is no wish to change our goals. This may not be strange in view of the fact that the independent party gets ahead of the government and stressed these goals in its own time. Why am I concerned about these financial rules? Yes, I believe they will bind very the hands of the Commission and the legislature to make decisions about how to inject in the systems we feel we need injections. We can immediately see this suggestion that I pointed to earlier in a short answer that it is very conservative. This is a very conservative policy. The focus is primarily on subsidizing debt and financing pension commitments, as shown in chapter 3. It is not suggested to make good use of the account by means of some kind of transport injection, despite the enormous collection of the need for it. This set the target for total expenditure not to exceed 41.5% of GDP over the period. Often, we are not talking about the same things when we discuss what we are doing when talking about government expenses. In fact, the total cost of the State is everything that goes out of the state's budget, including interest rate, transfer system, investments. All of that. Consider, for example, farming contracts that may be heard under the transfer. But when we talk about the combination, we have what we can call the establishments of the state; health institutions, schools, or what it is. When we try to figure out the combination, i.e. Business and services as defined by the Haust, which was the combination in 2015 of 23.61%. It's the collective consumption of the government, this thing that we're always talking about in this room, which is close to our big bites but also the focus, it's the welfare, the education system, this important thing for the entire public in the country. The consumption has fallen below the country. We'll see what we can do, and then we'll write down as we figure out how the combination has been developing here and when we compare the development in Iceland with the rest of the North countries. When the Icelanders say that the welfare system is less powerful here than anywhere else in the North countries and that the education system is less powerful here than anywhere else in the North countries, this is a classic discussion, we see it in black as it is when we compare the combination in these countries. But we must also realize that there is another way in which we earn money. Of course, that's why the patient's income is higher here in the north. The taxes, the general taxes, are also higher elsewhere in the North countries than here, but there is more service and lower charge for patients. This, of course, is a fundamental political matter. At times, it has been claimed that the left and right are out - of - date terms in political discussions, but these are key concepts when we discuss dating sets such as the national financial policies presented here. It reflects basically the difference between the left and the right, because it's conservative. Long-term revenue levels are not submitted here. This was clearly evident by the highest. Minister of his historical record earlier that it was not intended to increase income, perhaps changing the income level, but not increasing it. At the same time, the overall spending criteria are set, but not all of them, since they do not reflect this aspect of the combination. If we aim at a report on the lack of total cost, we can conclude that this combination will not increase from what it is in 2015 23.61%. At the same time, we have a public investment that has been at the minimum in history. There's no dispute. It's just facts. The public investment we have seen may have been primarily through public societies belonging to the State. That's why transportation is completely inadequate. It doesn't matter whether we're talking about the state of the roads, the number of single bridges, the snowstorm, or the new development. Here, members of all classes joined a few months ago for an ambitious transport program that was not so well - funded in the budget of this year. We see no major changes in this government policy. Now it's true to be the highest. In the past, a minister came to see that we cannot discuss specific categories of issues until we receive a national financial program. It has been observed in the highest range. Minister she'll be up for discussion in March/ April or about there. This, of course, gives us a much better opportunity to discuss the unique categories of subjects. Here we have the big lines. But I'm really worried about it if it's really going to be the same government policy, because it's been said that way. It's almost the same policy. Then we won't see the structure I think the public calls for. Now it is always difficult to speak for someone undefined, yet we have much to build on. I mention 86,000 signatures from the Icelanders, who openly signed the requirement that contributions to health care should go up to 11% of the gross domestic product. Here's what we got. Councilmen through this discussion said: "Well, did people know what it was about to sign? Yes, you know, I believe people know well what they're doing when they vote or sign those requirements. I think people just know very well what they're doing. I believe in people. This is a requirement from the public in the country if we can put it that way. We won't have that requirement if the Council is going to follow this course, or I'm now telling you more of the Generals' section. I'm not sure that the cut, at least not the left movement ◯ green supply, will sign this policy. Then we will not meet the local public demand for substantial increase in health expenses. I am also concerned that in education, they will not receive the additional contributions they truly need if the greater part is going to live up to the expectations he has given to promote all the schools, regardless of how he is going to do it, because not all of them are on the government's hands, if we just take simple things like OECD and the Northern National Standards when it comes to each student's income. Unless this new government also intends to adopt a prior government policy to simply reduce the number of students. I have to say, if we are going to pursue that sort of thing, it's not ambitious enough of our policy. My time has expired, Madam President. So I don't have any more words for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council is eager to give her a good speech. I would like to ask, especially to me, for information as a new senator, what it is exactly under the law on public finances that she feels is cutting off the council and then the Commission too narrowly in order to respond in a way that she would like. What would she want to turn into that law so that the law would allow her sufficient time to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u69	Madam President. Hv. A senator knows the laws on public financial matters that establish these financial rules, i.e. that the total equation over a period of five years should always be positive, annual angles to less than 2.5% of national product and other such conditions. Criticism in the left green is that by setting such economic conditions for law, political policies are being introduced into a law code. We feel, however, that it has been claimed, and it certainly shows that if there is some type of trauma, and we can wonder who will define those events - there is no need for us to contribute to the development at any given time as narrow a framework of the economic management that will be used at any given time, because the law of course has value. Our opinion is that such rules, though not the same as the Maastricht conditions, would be in some way comparable to rules. The Maastricht criteria can be reasoned that they are relevant to the international cooperation of several countries where they need some sort of such conditions. However, since we are not in such international cooperation, I ask: Why is it not a government - greater part of the time to set our economic goals rather than to establish laws rather a conservative economic goal for a certain angle, a particular debt, a certain amount of rest, which includes, in our opinion, limitations in the state's ability to match fluctuations? That's a big criticism of financial policy. Actually, there were other aspects of this law that I would have made comments to, and I mentioned earlier in reply. They are primarily involved in the actions of the law, which pertains to the integrity of the Generals. I may be able to find a second answer to that question. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u70	I thank the senator very much for the answer. I'd like a little more details on that. There's a law-enforcement policy in place, expected to increase the prerogative of state funds in the past and at the same time increase the credibility of the government. Is it her opinion, then, that no such guidelines should be in the law, that the government of the time should simply put them in its own schedule, or is it her belief that any such standards might be present? Who, then?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u71	Madam President. I generally adhere to the thinking expressed in the official financial law that it is normal for the State to make a five - year plan. That's all that matters to me. It is important for government institutions, what expectations they can make of donations, and so forth. But once it has been legalized to make it possible that if the state's debt exceeds a certain rate each year, I ask: What is the scope of the European Commission to prioritise money for welfare and education, say in times of crisis, instead of reducing debt? Not under the law. This was the case so that the law could only be unplugged. Okay, if the law can be unplugged, then why do we have it over our heads in the law? Is it not, then, only natural for every government to pursue a policy that targets the economic situation at any time and political vision of each government? These aims are characterized by the subspecies that have been proposed to form in the European Union in recent years as a response to a crisis that has occurred primarily in terms of my knowledge and many economists, extending this crisis, deepening it, and greatly affecting the expenses of various EU countries for welfare and education. Then I would like to say in terms of government law that they were following all means of financing to introduce the changed methodology in planning the government's financial affairs. I'm on it. That's very good. But the General didn't get an extra budget so that members of the Parliament can play a vital role in applying the distribution of government funds. This is the greatest and most important project of the council at any given time. This is the political policy of the greater part, and it is very important that the smaller part is also involved in this policy. Sadly, though, the Council has not had enough time to comply with its legal role. I allow myself to say that I am concerned with the role of the Generals when it comes to the government, which is by the Constitution, and where there is no other place. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the General has been given enough space to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u72	A respectable president. We take a big, satisfying step today, since this is the first time in Iceland's government brings up financial policy in the beginning of a terms, financial policy for the next five years, based on a certain level of caution, stability, stability, transparency, and, above all, safety and vision. We are finally putting our trust in the construction of public funds and bringing needed discipline into terms of government. Here we look forward, and here we set long - term aims for improving the economic standing of the state's funds, which greatly reduces its debt and also the priorities for society's foundation. Unlike what we have experienced before, it is not expected to go deeper into the pockets of taxpayers. We are going to lower debt and priorities for basic services without adding greater burdens to the people in the country. It should be our common goal to make the most of our economy in order to build up for the future. Yet, that has not always been the case. Over the years, we know a number of examples of short - lived politicians who have worked to expand the affairs of the State in all areas, blowing the Kingdom gang out of the way to see if it was necessary to do so. The bill was then sent just to the next generation, the taxpayers to the future. Politicians have been, and there are some who are still, unscrupulous to other people's money and feel that nothing is wrong with big increases and unsuspecting expenses year after year. It is happy that now, through government economic policy until the next five years, we are designed to look ahead, to do well today, and that what is being done is of benefit to future generations. This requires that we resolve to do more in political matters. They are to be involved not only in this terms but also in the future. Madam President. State funds are good, but they're also hard to find. This is bright as long as we follow responsible financial policies, not just in our own interests, but in the interests of future generations. Today's debt is the tax of future generations, and it is not just a phrase but a fact. Despite the rapid reversal of the past few years, government funds still have some of the largest interest in Europe. Therefore, we must work hard to reduce the debt of the Kingdom. There's a lot of work to do. We'll have to, for example. the dare to look for the sale of government property as important, as well as the necessary way to pay off debts and reduce the interest paid by the state. Thus a government fund would be better equipped to make needed investments over the years, where everyone agrees in many areas that there is a need for improvement. Surely, all of us can agree that the cost of the State is not best spent on interest costs. With less dues, more space is also being made to reduce taxes, both in the homes and businesses of the country. For far too long, politicians have viewed taxpayers as an endless source of capital. Hence, the attitude and disrespect for those who work have to be destroyed. Half the council members now seated at the General Assembly are new. Now there is a generation change where young people are entrusted with challenging assignments. I hope, in the strength of these transitions, we will, on the other hand, see the opportunity in a new thought, that we will not fulfill our assignments in the same way that has been done in years, but will stumble and seriously wonder what the real role of the State is. In this regard there should be no doubt about securing police and national security enough money to ensure safety. Recently and sadly, as well as tragic events in our society have emphasized the importance of the well - being of these parties, all should agree that their assignments include the real role of the State. A respectable president. I'm sorry, Icelanders have been allowed to get to know too many and too much fluctuations in the economy. We have been unable to maintain stability, and we seem to lose control too often, especially when things are going well. Today, our challenge is to maintain our fine standing and at the same time strengthen the support of our well - being and security. The cost of the state as a share of land production is not really higher among more developed countries than in Iceland. If there is still a lack of money on certain projects that we agree to do, the problem must be obvious. This involves mismanagement of priorities and the use of the available funds. It takes courage to live for the future, especially when there is a good one in the economy, as it is today. Being responsible and firm does not always lead to popularity, but for a long time it is necessary. It is my hope that this government will live up to its responsibilities, problems to work, and to care for what really matters, to keep the economy going, and to provide room for the economy to improve the benefit and security of the public. The currently proposed financial policy is among the first steps of many.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u73	A respectable president. I wish. paritaprevir My beloved Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, deeply congratulate you on your virgin speech. She looked great, like everything that's coming from him. A senator, even though I disagree with her virtually every word she said, I think it was a good idea. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd also like to take this opportunity and congratulate her on being a head of the Board of Education, because I'm convinced that she will do the work as well as she's done other assignments she's taken. I would like to, however, because I know how well the senator has performed as a politician despite being very different in my opinion. A senator whether it counts, because there is something I know that we agree that it is important to consider that, in this financial policy, there is room for the Treaty to enforce the Treaty that turns to disabled people, especially about the introduction to user - controlled personal assistance and, in fact, the more demands I know that the criminal interest groups have been stressing the implementation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u74	President wants to say congratulations to fourth. n.. ..............
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u75	Thanks for that. I also look forward to working hard. A senator of the General Information and Education Committee. I think it's perfectly clear when we discuss the priorities in government that we focus on a few things and we get them. That's exactly what I was doing in my talk, that we need to think about the role of the State. The role of the State, perhaps five things could be put together, health, education, transportation, State security, and social security. It is designed to provide them with a good life that cannot do so for themselves and to ensure the freedom of disabled ones to their own lives. We have in the Government Treaty to legalize user - controlled personal assistance as one of the main forms of service to disabled people, and they move within their priorities. But since there are other areas in which we need to be careful about spending, we need to rethink things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u76	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the answer. It was a good thing I knew it would be. In addition, I would like to point out that there has been a substantial cost in the introduction of user-controlled personal assistance. At the same time, it has been announced that the plan is also to adopt a work assessment and a change in the pension system for disability. Of course, there are disabled people who rely on all their progress from social security. There have been a wide cost assessment of 2How5 billion in the range of changes now available in the quality of the work assessment and the changes in the pension system. Does this also mean that they will be found by 2017 to ensure the forward of disabled persons?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u77	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm not going to promise on behalf of the government that the funds are found, but I'm going to promise on behalf of the government that she will resolve to add to the social security system, as was done during the last term in the payments for older citizens, where that system was all fixed, a major system change for older citizens's business. The same thing is we're going to do for disability. It is a fundamental part of what the Kingdom will take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u78	A respectable president. Budgetism for 2017/22022 is now submitted in accordance with official financial legislation. In the 10th. The law says, by permission of the president: If the core premises of financial policy are missing or predictable, it is due to economic failure, national year or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with with any available resources, the Minister shall propose to the General Council a resolution to the synopsis of the change of course as soon as possible. We are not here discussing a small, minor piece of paper, although the text does not have many pages. This is a course set for the next five years, or for the vote period. It cannot be changed unless something great comes up. That is why it is so important to carefully review all the criteria, over the box set. The financial Council, which is also under government law to evaluate policy and to see if it is in accordance with financial regulations and the values that are under the law on public finances, will submit its comments in two weeks. Of course, the financial committee will carefully review all of this. I look forward to the review of the financial council, which is likely to have access to data that we have not yet received. As mentioned in the discussion, there were debates about Article 7. The laws on public financial matters were when we were reviewing the official financial laws and the following articles on financial regulations. Otherwise, they were approved in good terms. The financial rules came in new and then the highest. The minister of finance stressed that they would be there despite its inconsistencies. Policy texts speak of the importance of using the terms of the state's budget for fluctuation, but the articles in the public law limit the flexibility of using the security issues for fluctution. The economic outlook for a report is talked about by policy. Among other things, during the late part of the period, strong economic growth is expected to be expected in 2017, about 5%, and around 3%, respectively. Industry demand, especially private consumption, employment investment, and the growth of tourism, is the main driving force there. A report on the economic outlooks, as noted in many other analyses from public institutions and others, shows that there are weaknesses and dangers in the economy today. It always shows that the development of tourism is a threat if this continues. The growth is affected by the growth, the funding of the crown, and the tension of housing markets, particularly in certain geographical areas, etc. All of this has a tremendous economic impact. It must be, a respectable president, that governments must use their tools to try to minimize the threat. It has been observed in discussions earlier today at the highest level. The government does not intend to take on the growth of travel services or to apply the opportunities that the State has for it, either by taxes or by expenses. This is the largest industry in the country. She's at the highest tax returns. There is nothing like the tax rate that comes to those who make use of the tourism services, which are mostly foreign tourists. The discount in consumer taxes is considerable, and in the budget bill, there is a tax price paid for tourism at about 20 billion. There's something wrong with when the largest industry has such a discount. The report on policy reports says that what needs to take place in the future is innovation and procrastination. This, of course, should move us to encourage innovation and sceptre activity to become the basis for future economic growth. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister said that the expenses they were going to apply and related to their tourism were parking fees. A respectable president must forgive me, though I find it a little amusing in this context to talk about what needs to be done in the tourism service as a parking lot. It's just fine for the parking lot and their business, but it's not enough for the pressures on health care, on the police, on the road, in the emergency transport, that's going to carry the insuficient growth of tourism. It must be necessary to react to these warning signs in some way, or is the idea that the public in the country will have that cost either by limitation or by a higher charge? We're high on the pace. We know, Icelanders, that we're going up and down. When you're at the top, it's been considered good Latin not to lower taxes. Of course, we should here talk about higher fishing costs, higher consumer taxes on tourists, possibly the step-traveled income taxes and the real capital tax in this year's journey, making room to keep the promises in the government's policy declaration to place extra money on the health system, the education system, and the aging services. However, the text says that it is not safe to go to permanent expansion during the terms described in the text of financial policy, based on the rest made for the economy. If the situation were to be corrected for the economy, the operation would be ironlike. I'm worried that this is a message that the situation is just like this and that it shouldn't be done in it, that there should be no room for the welfare system, and that it's gonna be stuck in the holes in it. I'm concerned that we are being sent such messages as the values of financial policy are cautious and therefore inconspicuous and not in accordance with official financial law to go on into a permanent expansion of the welfare system. We're running out of time. I'm going to talk about the stroke rate, which has apparently been put on the shelf because it's supposed to change growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u79	Madam President. This is the policy document of every government at any given time. There are not many surprises, so to speak. As noted at the beginning of this case, it was at the highest. Minister, this is a continuation of the policy proposed by the last government. Sadly, however, it is evidence that little can be done or done to the left person at least. have thought it needed to be done. The first thing you can think of is that the share of income taxes has been reduced to the raise of state funds in the past government. There has also been a loss of the application of income taxation in terms of balance introduced during left management hours and the three-stage tax system where the stress of money and then the pressures of resource taxation. The last government allowed it to be among its first works to drop from the pressures of a wealth tax, i.e. There was a decline in the stress of income taxation, and the intermediate step at the tax ladder was removed. Understandably, these measures do not benefit other taxpayers, as we have repeatedly seen in all the research and bring benefits to those with good income and valuable possessions. This reduced the efficiency effects of the income taxation that we left green are extremely opposed. Then there is the high percentage of taxes on goods and services where the share of the prize tax is overwhelming. The tax policy and its shape continue now, I think, but it is totally overlooked by the consumers of products and services paying the same value tax rate without regard to income or economy. As we know, there are basic needs for the common people, and it is evident that the tax burden of lesser ones is more than heavier than that of the others. Sadly, this seems to remain, and no changes are foretold in these materials. It has been dropped on other products and food and other things that are not sure to fully return to consumers, since this government has in its policy proclamations and in the campaign has spoken about consumer interests and has provided them with the opportunity, in particular, the highest-class. Financial and economic ministers. The reductions that have already been made and are being proclaimed in agricultural policy do not result in the restoration of this situation, or I don't think. It is one thing to proclaim an offer, another to proclaim well - being, and one to proclaim it to consumers. If you look forward to seeing the possibility of a demand sector triggering inflation and creating a foreign trade hall, you can say that the reduction of taxes and other public taxes I traced earlier called attention, since it is known and confirmed that such measures are most likely to reduce demand growth. As noted this morning, contrary to the views that have been repeatedly published in the financial policy committee reports, there is a direct warning against tax declines and that they would violate goals for reducing steering growth. The minister, however, said that the business was in irons if the economy was taken into account. That's what we have left greens repeatedly pointed to the entire last term. It's not changed here. Regular income stocks have been weakened, and the business is based on irregular revenues, the stock market today is based on the first and last of these irregular incomes. It was interesting to me that the Minister said the matter was missing about the time. 5 billion to reach the goal of subsidies. As far as I could hear, he preached either a recession or an increase in personal consumption or that somewhere else the system would need to be pulled together to achieve this goal, since more income would be expected to be expected only to a considerable extent. Then he mentioned green taxes only in the fishing road and then parking expenses. It is worth noting that parking fees should depend on nothing other than the construction and operating of the parking lot, but not as a direct income in a government fund. That is what it says on page 22. 3 By permission of the President's declaration of the synopsis proposal: ▪ Great and sustained growth differences in other countries also have the long - term limit to killing in the shrinking investments in innovation and sceptres on which future economic growth needs to be increasingly based. It is later spoken of as a guarantee of stability, as well as the government of finance working through the Federal Bureau of Money. What I traced earlier does not seem to me to be a pain in what is presented here, despite the Supreme Court. A minister also said, if I've understood correctly, this year would be the source of green light. If I noticed correctly, the Minister mentioned a reduction in insurance bills. The return was reduced by 0.5% in terms of collective agreements. The budget of the last government was used to increase the share of stocks at the insurance fee so that donations would increase in accordance with the increase in roofs because the payments will probably be similar and perhaps higher as they were in 2009. I'm not talking about if there are any ideas about extending it, because it has been repeatedly suggested that the gap between birthday orcs and nurserys is needed, so it's just part of the welfare service's role, apart from the fact that the fund's not very bad at the moment. But I believe the situation is underappreciated. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs reports that the plans of the previous government to build up housing will be carried out. It runs into billions in the next eight years. Besides, I'm gonna have to infiltrate the salary development of disability and senior citizens because we're talking about little being done there. Remuneration of excess inflation targets and growth of the population should not be negotiated here. We all know the pleas for better terms and also the equations of older people because it was only good for few. Here was a personal aid that is not financed. So I have serious doubts about their plans, as mentioned earlier, being financed in this program, I don't talk about transportation, but I get calls and e - mails every day and often every day because of it. The law. The terrorists are sub-financed. It came out and was accepted when we handled the budget and the final budget was being discussed. The goose is not full of money, because it was remembered here. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir has to put money on it and should finance that operation well. They're not here, that's for sure. That's why I'm really excited to see when the plan comes. I hope she comes -- well, I don't know if I should say soon because I've asked for a special discussion with the minister, I hope she'll be next week, about the person's appearance and how they're supposed to feel about getting their point across. I think it's very important that we figure it out, because obviously the system wasn't ready, not even the Ministry or anyone else, when we were trying to run this case through in December. It wasn't just because there was so much speed. It was just that the systems were not ready. Therefore, we can hardly say to those in the faraway world that they are prepared for their duties and how they approach it. I hope we can handle it. A respectable president. You talk in here like anybody else because it's such a short time. But I will be involved in discussing this matter on the budget board. That'll be interesting. A financial body has two weeks to review the case. It will only be interesting to see how it is coming out and how visitors we receive the visit respond to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to start by showing some kind of eulogy I was guilty of not showing up here earlier. Time was so short in opposition, we were so many, I didn't wish to the highest. Secretary of finance is happy to be in the position of transporting financial policy and congratulations on being in office. It may seem, though, that you have to feel a little bit sorry, too, because it must be a little difficult to stand here and move economic policies to the highest degree. former secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, especially after going through a short campaign, critical of the then ruling minister, the preaching system change, and a new era. Then there must be a bit of an unusual situation to stand here and speak for the civilian policy of the previous government. It's not just something out of my head, it's exactly acknowledged the highest. The secretary of finance, in the past, asked how money should be made from mono-change operations, for he referred directly to a former secretary of finance and the policies that had been adopted at the council last spring. It's a little strange to discuss the financial policy of a new government, a new highest. A new financial secretary who proclaimed a major system change, which is entirely based on previous financial policy. Funda Bjarni son of Benediktsson has been standing firm. Clearly, this financial policy is still under the control of the independence party. However, the highest. The secretary of finance may not have sent his predecessors cold greetings, but he may have been halfhearted, for in a paper with the Council's Reconception, according to the President's permission: ▪ More than ever, circumstances have helped to keep inflation low in the last two years. This may not be entirely in line with what the former financial minister has said, which has been groping by its economic wisdom and previous government, since it is clear that the situation of inflation in this country over the last two years is due to external circumstances. During the recent Parliamentary arrangement, a significant review of the project ahead, the economic project, is that it is primarily a fluctuation. By permission of the president, we say: (b) What will be considered in the following article? Economic and international policy makers agree that economic issues, both financial and public, will be used in a consistent way to counteract expansion and overheating. Later, by permission of the president: ▪ The management project, therefore, focuses mainly on a fluctuation with favorable economic conditions rather than on dealing with economic failures or traumas. These promises are excellent, but despite the promises and privileges here, the list is not to be trusted in the government's income base. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance is a poison directly to trust in the state's income base, which uses it as a balance tool, but it's not new to see it going. This financial policy has the same goals as the first one laid down in the last summer and adopted. It says that the growth in income is limited by the efficiency of the economy. I tried to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget for this morning. I have to admit, I didn't get a complete answer, but I'm a natural senator and I may not understand all the complications. But I understand what says in the account of Iceland's Federal Bank during the financial policy since the last spring. Regarding these goals, it says by permission of the president: Thus, the field seems preconceived to the automatic fluctuation of the income side of public funds and to suggest that if economic growth is more efficient, income should be given. This is particularly shocking in view of the fact that past decades's experience suggests that the economic fluctuation effect is actually stronger than the traditional method of assessing the fluctuation-corrected equations and that it failed to encourage the economy rather than the mild. On the other hand, primary expenditures tend to reduce the rate of economic growth, but in order to meet the automatic relaxation of the above - mentioned diet, expenses must be further cut down. It's nice and thin, and it's clear. The secret bank says this in a spring review of financialism. I tried to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to this crisis of the Federal Bank and how he answered it. It is, as I only came into the past, as if there were some dogma contrary to what can be considered economically wise not to raise taxes, so I say it plainly; the word that many people seem afraid to take into the mouth of today's politics, do not trust the bank of the state is called when we politicians don't want to stand somewhere in front of the common people and talk about tax returns. In recent years, government chemistry has been weakened. That's for sure. If all this economy is going to happen, i.e. If all the expenses are to be settled in the economy, we are not going to go to the expense that the packes promised on the opportunity just before the election, were set in front of their voters, and praised the and done, but are now coming and saying, "It's going to be all going to be in the economy, that's the small font we forgot to tell you about in the meeting we had with you a few months ago. For example, tax taxes are a powerful tool for hitting panels, as the spring bank points out, to trust the income base. You see, as often as times and seasons are told A, who should be the aims, but the courage to tell B, that to achieve these goals, a way to trust the income foundation, to increase taxes, to cause taxes. Nobody here is talking about a general tax increase in the public. I wondered and asked the highest. Secretary of finance to this morning, but he did not answer: Did it not be possible to tax the most valuable assets in earning money from society? Was it never possible to view capital tax, perhaps a step - divider, or even a raised one? Is there none of this? I think I remember listening to the highest. The secretary of finance after five classes had ended, now a man so lost in time, wasn't it in November, December? talking about all kinds of suggestions we're going to get back to earning a living. Were there some billions of them that he had gone to as well as they were willing to propose? Where are they in this financial policy? Perhaps none of this is because it's the financial policy of the former secretary of finance and economics, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, which is presented here. What does financialism mean if it is approved? What about the Society's criticism if the income is not to be increased? What does it mean if the punctuation becomes? Will there be cutting, are we looking forward to it? There's talk of economic growth at least A decade. Nevertheless, a vulnerable nail is specially struck. It says here, by permission of the President: Although substantial increases in salary have not yet resulted in high inflation, it is important not to negotiate pay rates for future losses beyond national prices and production. Is it ever true that it is okay just to get a proper raise? Ten years of economic growth isn't for that. Of course, caution is needed and all of that. With members of Congress having just taken quite a raise, can we never face the possibility that it would be good to get a proper raise? [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come back up here again. I learned earlier that I had a right to another speech. Maybe I'll just come back and finish up later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u81	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a council proposal for a new financial policy to be passed for the next five years under the law of a new government at the beginning of the term. It is good to be able to discuss it during the first few days. The situation in the community is well - known, and we are presented in the report. Now, there has been one of the longest economic growth courses that we have experienced, and a positive change in the interest of people has been made in terms of both increase in pay, increase in salary, revenue, plus significant improvement in the state's status, and the fact that now the population's income and property have for the first time positive since the start of republictime. It is not surprising, then, that this new government will continue its financial policies, and this new government will try to make its mark in the course of the next few years. In terms of baseline financial policy, the key to a word such as sustainableity, allowing commitments to become manageable and not put unreasonable burdens on future generations, financial security, and the pursuit of economic stability. As we know, a projection search is being made for firmness as well as for transparency in what the State puts forth by making plans for a few years. That's what I think of the good stuff. We've been discussing this at the council for quite some time. A few years ago, however, local government laws were passed. This set up financial guidelines. I criticized it at that time, probably 2010, that it would be remarkable if we at the Assembly Hall could give others clear rules on how it would be wise to use public funds, i.e. Companys, but we do not trust to do so ourselves. We have since done so now in time, a picture is being put on, although the founding financial bill for the state funds to publish it at the same time will not be provided until the next fall. The financial rules we aim for, rule and debt rule as well as obligation, are all fulfilled, or the debt order will be met in 2019 if not earlier. There is one question to ask, i.e. whether we do so too quickly compared to other government plans and focus the government on building wood. Of course, the thought, and it's wise, to reduce debt, and thereby raise and payments of state funds to create permanent space in order to go to an expansion of individual lawsuits. What I would like to discuss here is how the policy that we will later see in terms of financial development will be developed, how it deals with the other government plans for infrastructure. Of course, it plays many things inside. There is one factor that leads to financial success, the money policy at the National Bank, and another factor that, of course, has to deal with these factors. The country's success development, which has been resulting in an increase of 15% last year, 13% since March, and an enormous increase since 2009 has occurred since the fall of success. The development of success has now become a major factor in all the sectors as well as in the country's interest levels. It also needs to be played in conjunction with emissions. They also need to play together with the labour market and the workforce they've been trying to establish here, because all of this means being some kind of equation, an economy tool, to establish stability and therefore work against the expansion. This puts much emphasis on it and repeated several times in order to show the need for caution and firmness. I have also heard this in the talks of the Generals. That is why it is quite remarkable if you then look only at the article on the survival goals, with the permission of a president. Here I quote what is said on page 18. 5: With this continuing policy, the Agency can work against the expansion of national farming and maintain economic stability which, in conjunction with the products of property, will be used to reduce public debt to legal debt ratios. Again wise, how quickly it should happen in relation to the human budget, but it is wise to apply the rules we make ourselves. Just later on on on this page: ▪ When assessing the progress of public funds, it should be borne in mind that in recent years economic conditions in this country have been practical and that they will continue on the basis of available economic forecasts. Although the policy may have to do with the overall balance of the public during the period, much of it has been attributed to the recovery process. It would seem that if corrected, the goods of the State's Fund would be in irons. In other words, the expenditures we have already agreed on here at the council are actually taking all the benefits we have, except that there is a huge economic crisis here. If it changes because of any external factors, whether of natural disasters or of other factors mentioned here, e.g. If you keep walking, you can make it count. So this sentence comes later in the report, with the permission of the president: ▪ As a result, it would be unwise to set up new and permanent expenditures on the basis of these consequences and to say that valid evidence is there for the use of capital recovery in subsidies rather than a down payment on interest charges will lead to growth of prime costs. That's the real problem. This document alone is wise to create stability and firmness, but at the same time the government is living with plans for significant expenditures, health issues, education, transportation, and other factors. How will it be compatible with each other rather than reflect on increased income? Any changes in taxes? We're high tax countries today. Are the burdens reasonable? Is it wise to revise the tax system? It is known that in Iceland, the average person is paying more taxes than in the North countries. Is it not wise to review it and perhaps even equal the burden to something different, though doing so would result in taxing on those whom the highest income has increased to some extent in order to form those who have full - time employment by trading money? If you have a hundred sheep, you have to count a price, but you're dealing with another kind of money, you don't have to figure out how much money you pay for it; it's just a capital tax. As a result, he pays no return to the countryside, which is why he pays only that proportion of what he pays for his capital income tax. Is that what it is? A minister of finance might think about raising his income and, hence, having a chance to go through growing expenses without losing this policy? These services are discussed, as well as the data published by the Ministry of finance today in the field of diagnostic work that was started in the past administration on what could be done to counterweight measures for the sponsorship of the crown. Would it be possible to set up posts in travel services or to review travel services in some way to strengthen them? Of course, it needs to be done in the tourism service, since increasing progress is also causing tourism to be affected, not only by the other export branches, but also by the funding of the crown. It is also clear that public financial policies, not just government funds, but government investments need to be coordinated and comprehensive. It is said in this document that the capital area is large. We've seen it in the past, both the pay box and the house market. But is the situation the same in other parts of the country? [[The president calls.]] Will Landsnet's investments be reduced in terms of electrical security, transportation abroad, because it's expanding in the capital area? Are the expenses of Istavia and their construction at Leifs Station to reduce tourism? [[The president calls.]] Or should Istavia's expenses be reduced at all other airports in the country? There are questions that we will ask when the financial program comes up. [[The president calls.]] We will continue to ask these questions, hoping to get answers. But the big question is, How does it fit into the infrastructure and set out this document?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u82	Madam President. I thank you for this fine case, which has been proposed for the second time. It was submitted the first time at the beginning of the term. Thank you very much, too. The secretary of the budget for a good meeting this morning on the subject. Today's debates are being torn to pieces on the subject of this conclusion, and much has been shown there, whether it is wise or unwise. However, I would rather focus on some other things, and most of all, I would like to be critical of how financialism itself is organized. With the financial policy, all the government's finances are tied to the proportion of GDP, which, according to various analyses, is primarily a measure of driving money, rather than actual production or such, especially due to increased transport currents that usually have little impact on the amount of money in the traffic system. It has been quite difficult for economists to find a good way to evaluate transport services to GDP. As a result, it affects the overall system as it is presented. It is a very good goal for them to pay off the debt and the like, but it is very strange to calculate what has to be accomplished rather than to take the same amount into the budget and leave them under conditions of debt in some sense than overpowering it, i.e. beyond schedule. There are these two things that I find strange in the presentation, one of which is to download everything down to the verga of land production rather than to a certain crown number, and the other, to assume that there is a certain extra supply beyond zero, and to use it as a decrease in debt rather than a certain decrease in debt. Much has been said about not using all irregular payments and subsidies or financial contributions to a faster debt, such as fine. What bothers me most is that there has been no overall estimate of how to reduce interest costs that, despite Iceland's relative low debt status compared to the European Union, have been the most important person in the region. We have a considerably higher weight than the one we had. Germany if we compare it. But they're pretty high. It is rather tragic that the government boasts that credit ratings are on A- at Standard & Poor's, over 70 billion dollars. each year at interest costs. These two things make me feel that I am not doing quite well together in view of the way that the interest cost has been developing over the past few years. For example, in January 2014 there were debts 1,447 billion, or 81.7% of GDP, and a clean debt of 885 billion, or about 50% of GDP. The growing charges were 75 billion, but if we compare them to the situation now, we have a debt of 1,122 billion, which is 46.7% of gross domestic product. A mere debt has dropped to 755 billion, or 31.4% of gross domestic product, but we have interest expenditures of 70 billion. You would have thought that it would be possible to achieve a significantly greater reduction in interest compared to this reduction in debt, though in a certain relative context, especially as a result of a rising or improved credit score. This is the bottom line because the current financial problem is not just the debt standard, although it is certainly a very good goal to try to cover debt below 30%, but that interest in the United States is generally very high. It's not that easy on the government fund. The consumers are badly affected. All those in need of financial help are badly affected. The financial cost is simply too high. True, it should be said that in the figure before January 2017, a clean debt of 755 billion bucks is probably missing a part of stability payment, which I don't know if it's been fully calculated. But that would actually further emphasize what I'm saying, that it still needs to be expected by 70 billion dollars. in interest rate per year. I hope, therefore, that there is much more exciting suggestions on growth reduction from the highest level. Economic and financial secretary as soon as possible because this needs to be taken as soon as possible. Another factor that can be said about the financial policy of this moment may primarily be that there are some very strange reasons. One of the criteria I took in a discussion of the matter and, as it has been said, that the development of personal consumption will decrease. But we can see that in February 2016, the Habitat proposed a personal consumption project that is assuming that private consumption is increasing in 2017, and then it will reduce to a relatively low number, I think of 2.1%, around 2020,2021. But in November of last year, there was a new report from the Haust practice that accounts for a considerably greater personal consumption in 2017,2018, but some of it is the same final forecast for 2020,2021. This should be explained considerably better if it is assumed that private consumption will be reduced in this way. If such a trend is wrong or based on bad odds, it is obvious that the result will not be good. The point is that there is a need to expect more flexibility than financial policy is expected. In addition, uncertainty needs to be taken into account, and at the same time, a much better plan should be offered on how to set interest costs in general and reduce the enormous cost of trying to finance some project in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u83	Madam President. This is now such a big deal when the Senate conclusions come through a budget or financial policy that, in fact, we would need to consider that in terms of Congress, there was more time for such discussion than for a regular Senate resolution proposal, when the entire state's budget, I don't speak of the direction to the next five years, then there's a very narrow limit for ten minutes. The secretary of the Independence Party, what? paritaprevir Sigurbjörnsdóttir Winbjörn's sótttir, spoke of and was very happy. There are many other joys in those camps at this time, those who want to reduce the affairs of the state, and to bring the exclusive elements to the full. A business plan is to wake up. It's fun now. It's now some 2007 again. The maintenance board, right control, and then there is no motion from there on what to do. Sell all the property of the state. Make the kingdom its all - time managers. I wonder who's buying. Do you think it will be public? No, I suppose it'll be the fancy new real estate companies, the new amputees, their names all together, Reissies and Homefields, where the money is looking for a new way of making a lot of money, and, in my opinion, one of the most dangerous things that has happened in Iceland's real estate market for decades. So much is said, as the situation is there. I guess it'll be a plan, says Council of Business, to add all the more public dwellings to the market and the state to be tenant. Mrs. President, what's the experience from being tenant in the downtown city? How has it been possible to pay high rents to the office building around the council, to open the market here in the Qunos, and to provide the accommodations in all kinds of conditions, as we know? No, I hope that men will stay with them only despite their joys. Our left green boss, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, did well over this at the beginning for us and the warnings we have had about this approach and I believe that it is important and important to discuss this as a fundamental political issue, because it is directly linked to the very core political discussion of the community we want to live in. Of course, it is the monumental arts who want to be least in public hands and most of all in the hands of the exclusive powers and others who want another kind of community model, who want solid revenue in the interests of a well - motivated community that guarantees the welfare and prosperity of humans through it. Of course, it is good for humans to be responsible for their financial policies, and this is especially important when the Independence Party is under control, for it has as it is known to be responsible for screwing up the economic situation of Iceland rather than any other political party in the Republic's history. It's just a matter of time. His relatives in times of restoration and elsewhere also need to be careful that they do not have something of their hunting. I embrace it in myself, and I feel better as a left man who wants to guarantee government matters - I don't want people to destroy them regularly by collapse or by something else, and others need to work them out again - that responsibility is laid on the foundation. That's good. It is also important to pay off debts, of course. Of course, we always need to discuss what should be first at any given time, including this: Should it be such an end to paying down the recorded debt of the state, the money debt, that we save debt elsewhere? I'm not sure that's wise. I think we're making a huge mistake in it right now, and we're going to do it, especially for the next few years, considering that we're building our debts elsewhere, paying down the visible accounts, money debts in the books of the state, and gathering them in other places in chaos and in desperate needs that we're facing over the next few years. Two situations are facing us in particular. The road system in the country is destroying. We are not preparing for the bomb that is in store for the need to care for the elderly. We need thousands of nurses over the next 10 to 15 years, and the bomb comes in from 2020, according to the Ministry of Health. Is that not the course of wisdom? Is it not also a debt of the state if we neglect entirely, not just building up the wood for future and present needs, but even maintaining them? We're so low with the thing that it's causing national damage. It's the easiest thing to show and prove in the road system. What happens if the maintenance and management of the road system goes down to a certain point, the roads begin to become damaged literally, like a house that is let go of leaks for years without fixing the leak. That's what's happening on a large scale, e.g. He's on Route 1. It will be more expensive, and more and less action will be needed in all of his rebuilding because of the low concentration that is maintained and he is unable to tolerate the heavy transport that is on the road today. I believe that it needs to be national and good if the committee that gets the case over it a little. There's a balance to be found there. Yes, we all want to see the government's debt dropping rapidly so that the interest costs are reduced, but it is also a debt to ignore clearly what the state, hopefully its agreement, to take care of and care of, as if the interior parts of the country are all right. I also have serious doubts about the rigid frame laid here because I don't think we're creating space there to deal with things that are waiting for us like everyone else, and they're knocking on our door now with increasing weight, i.e. the change in population age and the need for more attention in the health and affairs of the elderly. Recently it has been signed that we should aim to achieve health - care expenses in 11% of GDP, in other words, to raise the Sik2.5% contribution to health compared to GDP. That's a lot of numbers. We are expected to let the State take on that rise, because, if anything, they want to reduce the expense of patients in the system. Is there room for that in the next few years? No, I can't see that. At the same time, we have to deal with a variety of improvements in health care, medical science, new medicines, new tools, and tools that are a challenging project that has been leading to a rise in the proportion of health benefits of GDP in most of our control populations in recent years. Where else can we give in return if we are not prepared to put any new money into the system and only the economic crisis so called on to finance this? Would somebody please point me to those areas? Is it in education, education, research, and evolution? No, hardly. We're going to need to increase it to get to the average OECD and then to the northern countries. Is that not what we want to do? Is it law enforcement? Is that the county business? No, the reality is that we will still work to relax in many areas since the collapse of the maintenance years. Parts come to us and say: We are 8% lower in actual funds to provide our services despite the increasing number of tourists, despite the population growth, than we were in 2006, 2008. Fewer police are on the Akureyri patrol today than were at the turn of the century, and so on. The capital area's health care has 9% lower funding to provide its services in the capital area than it had in 2008. Once paid changes have been taken into account, the business itself has had 9% less budgeting. There's some relaxation we're going to earn. Does anyone claim that this was too much for us at the time? I don't think so. We know of the trials that humans have gone through there. I argue that during the last term, a big mistake was made in economic and financial matters, a tragic mistake, by paying off as much money as it was made. Two things should've been done sooner. On the one hand, moving some of those income stocks to rural society, since the deportation of rural society is not good enough and is not going to be good enough for the next five years according to this financial policy. They're actually supposed to keep seawater. However, we should have kept some of those earners. We could do three things about it; we could add a little bit more to the interior, we could pay off taxes, and we could have done more good things to them. So I am not convinced that even though things are done well, we are meeting the right balance in this regard. Here is actually a brand - new object, political goals that have nothing to do with public financial laws, such as just putting abal roof on the scope of the consumption in the country. [[The president calls.]] It is said that there should be 41.5% of GDP, the government, but in reality the lyrics say it should be lower. [[The president calls.]] It's all new and it's got nothing to do with the law. This is the political proclamation of this government. That's how she likes to have strings on herself, for sure her coercion is not growing out of what is now, and preferably outlets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u84	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, I'd like to talk a little bit more about this. I'm inclined to think too much of a time for me to say the right thing so that a light will come to those who listen. Maybe that's why I'm single. I'd like to move on for a little while. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon did well in this regard just in terms of need. Is that not what we should be thinking of primarily, why we are doing this? Why are we doing this? Nobody's paying and taxes, some money in the state's budget, just because it's fun. We do so because it is needed. I understand the highest. Secretary of finance, however, is well - intentioned. His shoulders are no less or less than the management of the wealth of the state; there is no small burden to bear, and perhaps especially when the situation is the way it is. The proposal says, with President's permission: ▪ When assessing the progress of public funds, it should be borne in mind that in recent years economic conditions in this country have been practical and that they will continue on the basis of available economic forecasts. Although the policy may have to do with the overall balance of the public during the period, much of it has been attributed to the recovery process. It would seem that if corrected, the goods of the State's Fund would be in irons. That's not a very good situation, is it? What, then, does that lead us to conclude? If we corrected the pace, the product of the government funds in irons would be the product. We need to strengthen the income base. Someone would think so. No, not the highest. The current government or the highest. Secretary of finance. Because the proposal says: ▪ As a result, it would be unwise to set up new and permanent expenditures on the basis of these consequences and to say that valid evidence is there for the use of capital recovery in subsidies rather than a down payment on interest charges will lead to growth of prime costs. The best thing to do is lower interest costs and pay off debts. But if the situation is not that the government fund, his business, is in irons, if the economy is corrected, which must now be told of by a retired minister of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, would it not be reasonable to conclude that the government has to be reimbursed, that there is a need to improve the state's budget, that income needs to be increased to live up to the level that we've all proclaimed here? Like what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask came to the end of his case, so you see that in the proposal, it will place a roof on what the public's business should be. This is somehow imported into our system, as we have in the finance conferences of ◯forbifarteten to agree that there is no greater than 41.5% in total economic activity of public citizens. I don't know. General. I think it's such a political policy that I'd like the Senate resolution to be put before all of the committees of IIis, but I don't think that's in harmony with the Senate, because this is no small thing we're discussing here. What I fear is that living in the back is a massaf private business as it's called in a fine case, privatizing. I don't believe that this government, she now has to accept not being particularly popular based on research, relying on the sea of turmoil not to place any money on any project, she doesn't intend to install any institutions, or place any money, but she's going to do it so that the efforts of the government will not increase. That's a real problem. I think it's true that behind the line there's a lot of plans for private business in the next year. There is a great political policy that needs to be discussed, not as some point of view in a proposal to be held in terms of financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u85	At a meeting of the International Parliament of the European Security and Cooperation Agency earlier today, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was elected chairman of the Committee and Birgitta Jónsdóttir was adopted as vice president. At a meeting of the National Parliamentary Conference on Arctic, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was elected president of the Committee and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson was vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u86	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the termination of the law on the Farmer's Pension Fund, No. 12/1999, with subsequent changes. The bill is a physically compatible bill recommended at the General Assembly at the last legislation. From force of law No. 12/1999 of the Farmer's Penitentiary has worked with the objective and organization that distinguishes from law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, with subsequent changes, of funds and approved for them. The current fund laws require authorization for state funds to pay the remuneration of farmers' financial funds. From the 1970's fund office, a total of or whole contributions were made against a fund of funds provided by each year's budget and calculated on the basis of price paid under the domestic contract. After the collapse of the economy, contributions from the state fund to the pension fund were removed in stages, and from the beginning of 2013 onward, the payment for a pension fund has been fully paid by sources of funds, as is generally true of those who are engaged in employment or independent work. In view of these changes in predecessors, there is no reason for specializing the fund. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the Farmer's Penitentiary Act be removed on January 1, 2018. Two. is suggested that the current management of the fund take the initiative in adapting the approved legal requirements. 129/1997, on the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, with subsequent changes, allowing these to be changed for financial and economic ministers to accept no later than October 1. It is thus assumed that the funds will be confirmed as soon as the law expires on January 1, 2018, and that a new government will take over on the basis of the approved funds. In the 3rd. it is suggested that the state's budget guarantees the expenses of a pension payment on a donor born in 1914 or before or at the expense of pension pay to his or her spouse. These are acquired rights of a fundmate or his partner as a state guarantee but the expenses of a state's funds due to the responsibilities were about 12.7 million in 2016, compared with 14.7 million in 2015. In the end, there's a fourth. The bill suggested that the law be accepted already. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u87	Mr. President. The Ministry of Economics assumes in the bill that farm farmers' Pension Fund can implement the laws to be exonerated by their own agreements, but the Farmer's Pension Fund believes that to make the 6th claim. The law can continue to stand for them, not by their own consent, but by the law. This was pointed out during the last term, but the matter is now presented regardless of how the pension fund is viewed and without any explanation. I'd like to ask the highest. Budget and economic secretary why this comment has not been made, at least in a report or such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u88	A respectable president. Now I have to admit, I'm talking 6. I don't know and I wanted to pray. A senator about reading it to me so that I can respond to his question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u89	Mr. President. It's a pretty long story. This is a special saying, with permission of the president: By the end of 1983 and by the end of 1983, a fundmate dies and does not change his rights with his mate and then has a surviving mate entitled to a pension from the fund after the period of pay paid in the contract for the rest of her life. Such rights, however, are based only on acquired rights in the funds at the end of 1983 without extrapolation. If we break up marriage or other marriage relations reported to the fund under older law, the acquired funds should be passed, the years of marriage, or the years of marriage until the end of 1983, if they had not been divided before. It may also be noted that in the absence of extrapolation, this coin is relatively small today relative to the gross inflation that has been since 1983, but it needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-26-19.u90	A respectable president. I'll think about it. A senator has answered his own question by lowering his talk. I have the same understanding as he does.
