ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u1	V.E.G. President. Icelandic agriculture has been the foundation of European society throughout the country and is, in fact, the grieving part of most of the country. During the last term, a great deal of work was being done in reimbursement, a job that was certainly timely because we are entering a time that requires radical changes in agriculture in Iceland. As suggested by the employment road committee, an interview group was established that received a clear description of the job and was to be included. To examine the objectives of the agreements, climate and environment, information to consumers, source marks and, above all, competitive and work environment. This group was part of a process of reconciliation that was viewed as a complete and grammatical approach. Now it's news to the highest. Agricultural ministers are starting to clean up. Of course, men have to settle in new places and set their mark again, but I am hidden from the mystery why a minister chooses to replace three of the five minister - appointed representatives. Nowhere have I seen an explanation for that. Why not just everybody? Perhaps the group was too secret to the farmers? Ask the one who doesn't know. It's going to say "A" to the top. Minister's bill of change in agricultural shape immediately within the spring months. This shall review the distribution of tollovata and the inclusion of the terms of competition. Could it be that it runs through all members of the government? Then I wondered what the role of a professional representative is in the group. What is the entry of the entire body of the contracts of farmers and the State? V.E.G. President. It seems that a minister is giving support to the position of the store that has no access to the agreements. The agreement is with farmers, and it is necessary to produce food according to certain conditions. The importance of making peace with Icelandic agriculture is emphasized by farmers'representatives. This is important to all of us. There seems to be no weight to the minister's outlet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u2	V.E.G. President. We're at a critical point, not just here in little Iceland, but the whole world. We talk about new politics, through the conversation, and out with what some would like to call the old-fashioned male politics, less amateur and more professional, and all that. V.E.G. President. I can readily agree with some of these statements, and I am amazed at the confidence I feel by the privilege of working on the future development of our country, being allowed to contribute to making a good country even better. That is why I am deeply disappointed that the members of the government who now sit together and identify themselves with liberalness, conversation, and other fine propaganda do not act in harmony with what they say they want to be and do. What does it mean to see that members of the Independence Party sit as presidents of six of the Allied 8 Regular Committees, representing the future of Bjarts in one, and representative of another? What is meant by the fact that political groups on a very weak democratic agency, with only one more part of the president's throne in all committees of the council? This has nothing to do with consultation and conversation. I hope people can see their worth in making things right. If a person really wants to cooperate, let him do it by leaving the president's seat to memory at the council. Or are members of the government just content with this arrangement? President. Hv. Senators. This continues to make things weaker. This is not a good start for a new government. I predict she won't stay long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u3	Madam President. The Þorgeirsson, director of the office of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, encouraged it in the last Sunday news for RUS that Iceland is in the front row of the opposition to back-up climate change, as has repeatedly been said, not in the strength of its population, but in knowledge and experience with utilisation, e.g. water energy and pollution and the recovery of land quality. But are we really in that position? In some ways, yes, but the answer is not necessarily that way if you look to the next year or the whole part of the seminary. For example, the Paris Convention has been overreached, as it has been observed, better if this is to be done, if it is to be truly successful, and hopefully the Council contributes to a better time in those areas. Then to the other key point in the matter of Halldór Þorgeirsson, and indeed many others, including me. He rightly encouraged climate issues not to be made into a class of political issues. There are few or none at all - and now I hide behind a brief seat here and the facts that become ever more obvious - members of the council who deny the rapid warming of the earth or major features of it. Thus, because of much conflict in position and outlook, climate issues are not classized. A word of the highest order. The prime minister on the importance of climate change and the similar words in the opposition to government confirms this, but the climate issues can still become a group of political ones, and I ask: "Why? Because we disagree greatly on government financial issues and thus on building funds to make large contributions to all the products that reduce carbon gases and the others that bind carbon. Therefore, I encourage the development and funding of the government's strategy that there will be a great deal greater financial support than any new budget is expected. And the next year's budget is also the same. There, the council, as well as the government, is responsible to achieve the highest level of solidarity in one of the most significant solutions of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u4	V.E.G. President. Last night, I gave our priority suit to the candidates, which was a pact proposal for a health plan. There was a good discussion, and I would like to use this opportunity here and now thank them. members of the council who joined us. The motion is now to the point. I hope as the 1st mission member of the matter, that all members of the council will agree to move the matter forward. I also place high hopes in the highest. Healthcare Ministers will continue to implement this pooled proposal in their work on health policy policies; this schedule will not be established as too many people as possible after approval. Senators. The point of the proposal is to the highest. Health Minister performs a health plan for Iceland. The healthcare programme should be cooperated with healthcare professionals at the health-group, as this is what knows the circumstances, parishes and better accesses of the system. It is important that health professionals come from many parts of the country, since circumstances may vary in our different health systems according to national health care and e.g. Hospital. The healthcare programme should take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between geographic areas. This is vital, since united health institutions are around the country, are caring for some of the four - quarter years of the land, and often have a difficult way of going between institutions of work. The healthcare programme should also take into account the localisation of health care centres, populations of age, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of travel sites, and the country's home to name something. At the same time, the strategy will take into account the need to make good use of health - care facilities in the country and thus reduce the pressure of land hospitals. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to help us progressives on this important matter. We need to answer: What is the future view of politicians and professionals in this article? Where are we going? Do we want to promote health care facilities in the country, or are we going to solve the problem by personalization or by increasing our personal business? These are big questions, but the decision has to be made, and it is time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u5	Madam President. It's at the top now. Healthcare Minister before a very large decision, i.e. whether he's going to pass permission to a private hospital. I want less than ever. According to the polls, 80% of the people believe that health systems are best handled by the government. I also call attention to the words of the president of the Land Hospital, which says, by permission of a president: Therefore, it would be shortsighted to negotiate this business and unnecessary expenses for taxpayers. A land hospital has the opportunity to perform replacement operations and has the ambition to continue in good cooperation with the hospitals in Akureyri and Avérie. It should never be subject to quirks of individual ministers to make such fundamental changes that will have a dramatic impact on society. The Congress is going to make these date-making decisions, and the members of the United States of America have moved through this bill, and I urge you to introduce it. At any rate, the highest. Healthcare Ministers to come here and have a word with members of the Parliament on private or public health care business. The hospitals we are running today are neither fully new nor fully funded, and I feel that today's priority should be to strengthen the public health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u6	A respectable president. I take a silent note of my concern about where we're headed, not just an Icelandic community, but perhaps the world in general. Recent reports from the outside of the world set this story on fire but inside it also mixes with words we've allowed ourselves to ignore, so I'll let myself gossip, to people who for various reasons come here for all kinds of reasons to come to a country of all kinds of origin. Have we fallen asleep on guard duty? When the chairman of the World Health Committee [National and Business Committee] sees the correction of the senator at the time. 15:35] Talks about meeting a section of inmates with steel fists, have we fallen asleep on our guard? When the Minister of Justice tells the government that the favor of the Icelanders will be abused by unfounded shelters, have we fallen asleep on guard? When it becomes part of our day - to - day life to read a statement online, where people who have nothing to blame worked except for being of a certain nationality or by promoting a particular religion are 90, stopped, and even incited to violence against it, have we fallen asleep spiritually? Is it not our duty to uphold human dignity? I don't know if my words here are important, but I still want to try. This is one of the major problems faced by Western communities and should be taken seriously before it is too late. I want to direct my words to the highest. A minister of well - being to determine whether it would be advisable to set up a special committee that would have the objective of considering these matters and suggest an increase in human vision and humanity, both in order to deal with the situation as it is, but not least to prevent its exacerbation. We have a policy on language, agriculture, forestry policy, and a variety of activities. Do we need a culture policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u7	Madam President. Reports and secretism in connection with them were made that the panels in the Assembly Hall yesterday did not end up surprised, since two important reports have been kept secret to the public. I'd like to use my time to talk about another report that seems to have been stored under a chair, not just one environmental minister, but under the position of two environmental ministers. President of the current Environment Minister, Sigrún Magnún Magnúsdóttir, ordered a report on climate matters at the National Institute of Economics in the United States during the previous part of 2015, in order that the Icelandic government could shape and introduce their goals for recession for the Paris Conference held in November 2015. According to my sources, the report has indeed been reduced, and the report has been presented both to the current environmental minister and to the current environmental secretary. Why they have both decided to sit on this report, and hopefully another hidden end, the publication of this report should truly serve the interests of the public, especially in such a large and important class of climates. Could it be that the figures listed in the university Economic Institute report don't look too good? Are they hiding something? The current environmental secretary has been very misleading about whether or not she has seen that report. During an interview with the State Radio, January 16, U.S.A., Ólafsdóttir Ólafurdótttir, U.S.A. Environment Minister, with President's permission: only allowed to look into the report. A few days later or January 25th. was the minister very misleading in the General's symposium on whether she had seen it or not and said in her previous reply to an unprepared inquiry, with the permission of a president: I have received a glimpse of it, and the situation is not too good. However, in her speech in the same unsubstantiated inquiry, she said this, with the permission of a president: 'I have not seen the report. I haven't been able to read it. It's all very confusing, topv. President. Has the highest. Environment Minister seeing this report or not? What Does It Show? The objective of Iceland was sent to the United Nations Climate Convention on 30 June 2015, and it was reported in the press release of the Environment Ministry from the same day that Iceland's aim was to achieve a joint objective with the EU and Norway by a 40% reduction of emissions to 2030. [[The president calls.]] We must agree that the collective work of all of us is doing much better in these areas, and there is no reason to hide information about climate status. [[The president calls.]] It's no good to anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u8	President has to ask. A senator to respect the timeliness given in these teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u9	Madam President. Today, the websites report that housing prices are rising, resulting in an increase of up to 30% in the next three years, according to the Adoni Analysis Department. It is also said that you have to go around 81⁄210. new apartments until the end of 2019 to meet demand. Thus, it cannot be avoided again to call attention to the fact that there is no in the government covenant of the present government that handles housing. It's probably not going to be the deal with the labor movement. Then, each year, about 300 apartments are missing according to current plans and the financial resources set out in relation to the last government decisions. It is also of concern that the position of young people as we know and that we have frequently discussed in a hall is not good when it comes to first purchases or heads just to buy housing or rent that we know is a long burst, including. Because it is being rented to the rapidly growing industry, tourism. The sizes involved in housing are far beyond the economics of such as the buyfulness of voluntary income, which, of course, is a major concern. As the economist of the diagnostics says, you are expected to have 1◯3. fewer apartments than there is need, but not 300, forgive, and the price increase is much more than the only advice it has for young people is saving. But can young people save? Is that so? According to the Independence Party, it takes ten years to save money for payment. Is that a realistic possibility? I don't think so. A respectable president. Sadly, nothing has been observed in a new government on these matters. [[The president calls.]] I certainly hope that this will result in a push at the government, and this will provide a practical program for dealing with this great challenge for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u10	A respectable president. Monday, next, is the day of the nursery. This is the tenth celebration of this day, which February 6 is a big day in the history of a preschool teacher, for on this day 1950, the directors established their first organization. Schools all over the country will celebrate the day. The reward for reputation will be given, but the reputation is given to those who have seemed to be superior in promoting the reputation of the nursery and/or who have worked hard in behalf of the nursery. In my opinion, every person who works in our playmates was rewarded with a rewarding reward on this day. The school is our first class in our school system. There is a petition for a preschool law, by permission of a president, in 2 Timothy 3: 1. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: (b) Why should children be guided by what kind of education? ▪ In play schools, children's well - being and interests will be guided in all their professions. Children should be looked after and educated, prepared for a healthy, stimulating environment and a safe learning and play environment. It should be added that studies take place in a practical and creative way, where children enjoy a wide range of parenting skills. The practice of acting school will be motivated by tolerance and love, equality, democratic cooperation, responsibility, compassion, reconciliation, respect for human worth, and the Christian heritage of Icelandic culture. The school ministry is under attack despite an important and remarkable work there is to be done. There are 1,300 preschool teachers in law school, and all too few enrolled in preschool school. I believe that next year, when I remind the council of this day that I want to be happy for the day, this number will be much lower simply because there is no doubt one of the most important links in our school system. I've heard a lot of people talk about the importance of us protecting and furthering the education system. Part of it is to promote the school system and to increase the rate of the nursery teacher should be the priority for all of us. I recommend that everyone give themselves a moment on Monday to honor a preschool teacher and staff from high school all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u11	President. December 14th. A seaman strike began, and it still stands. Seamen have been out of agreement for about six years, and during this period the profits made by industrial companies have grown tremendously, as you can see. that they have paid back $355 billion since 2008. This unprecedented profit is also the case. Embarrassing due to the favourable market conditions, historical low oil prices, and, above all, due to the decline of hunting costs in an alternative government, from 12.8 billion to 4.8 billion. In view of this, the demands of sailors will be even more interesting. Is it acceptable that under these circumstances they are expected to pay part of the oil purchases of the ships, or to restore the ship? Is it okay for builders to use deception and double prices to reduce the value and thus pay of sailors? Why might it be that after the greatest opening period of Icelandic production during the past seven years, it has been impossible to meet the relatively sound and legitimate demands of those who are on the watch at sea? The main evidence that the fishing system is unchanged is that we live in the world's best driftwaters. Shouldn't the best fishing route in the world afford to pay a salary that reflects the value of this article, have the capacity to renew the ships, afford their workers, and be able to cover expenses? So far, sailors have had room to strike for about four or seven weeks before the Council cuts in and establish laws. It is a powerful tradition in Iceland, often referred to national interests, to dumbling builders and their weeping shoes, to march into business conflicts. I'd like to warn you that this is going to be done. In view of the current situation, it is time to break the umbilical cord between rulers and builders. Work battles are not relevant to the General. Being able to negotiate your own terms is a fundamental human right. This right must be strengthened. This is best done by allowing the parties of the issue to settle it according to the general rules of work strikes and contracts of a labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u12	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the General and Education Committee visited to study the activities there. This is a young institution that is very important in the education of all students in the schools of the country, both elementary and high school, high school, and college. But there was one thing that caught my attention there. It was noted in the case of those who were studying with us the Agency that the lock of Icelandic children is very lacking. It showed that after the fourth grade there is a very small improvement in reading, especially in rapid reading. Now we know that once we're further in school, we really need to be able to read fast, and I think this is a challenge, not only to school, but also to the parents of young children to encourage reading because reading goes like nothing else; we'll be better trained more and make certain things more. Besides the years that we are young, we can have the hours we spend reading, that will follow us to adulthood. I have a mother who is 82 years old and she reads two, three and four hours a day. This has been her greatest pastime. I reiterate that I encourage parents to take time to read with their children and to encourage them to read. And I'd like to say, for the sake of words. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter that I have a reliable source for the report she called on, is in a newsread. [[The president calls.]] That's what's holding up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to go back to one of the topics that were discussed in unprepared inquiries yesterday. It turned out that the government has had nothing to appreciate the national losses that will result from the seafaring strike. The minister came in a drunk, and she couldn't tell me anything about the loss. I was amazed to hear the minister say that there was no action, not a time to consider a legal procedure on this matter; however, the government had not yet been examined. I have to say, as it is, when you look at the numbers that are involved you'll see that while the entire Icelandic fleet is on its way, the amount of money is lost, of course. Only on January 27, I looked at the analysis of the Navigator that was published. which says, by permission of the president: It may be estimated that the longer the strike goes down and both business relationships are lost, and production may result in a reduction of up to $900,300,000 a day... Lost export income is being spoken of as being 640 billion. K. Besides, it is expensive to have ships, factories, and people idle for days. Technology companies are particularly concerned about this, that projects are delayed, and moving companies are said to have suffered losses or contractions from 20% to 90%. The most serious consequence, though, is that we lose foreign markets. It has to be said, as it is, that earlier governments have organized working groups and groups for less extensive issues. I think it is extremely urgent that the government recognizes the magnitude of the situation. On the other hand, I agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Guðmundsson says, of course, it is of utmost importance that sailors and everyone can negotiate their terms, but we cannot overlook the seriousness of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to matters that involve foreign living but in Iceland. Shortly before Christmas, the U.S. National Institute of Iceland increased the income limit of the residence of individuals from 163,000 a month to 180,000. This number, 180,550 nt, is not a coincidence. The law on foreigners has authority for Ministers to set the criteria for the development of foreigners, and this authority has been used and associated with the financial assistance of Reykjavík. It is interesting in itself, and I'm not sure the city officials in Reykjavík will find that more financial assistance really makes it difficult for foreign students. Whatever the case, the change is made with only a month in advance and takes effect in the middle of the school year. I know that this causes many foreign students to worry and worry. They've been in touch with me. In itself, you might reason that the amount of money you have in such cases would be all right, it's expensive to live in Iceland. The problem, however, is that many foreign students live in poor employment permits, allow only 15 hours a week, and the conditions require that employers simply not have the means to hire people with these requirements, which again limit the possibility of foreign students to support themselves. In this case it is so that both the criteria and then the 15 - hour climax are stated by law so that a minister of justice and social Affairs could change this if they wanted to. I encourage them to do so or to encourage the council to take these matters into their own arms so that no foreign student will have to go home because of these criteria. No one would make it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u15	A respectable president. Tens of Icelanders died at their own hands last year, most of them young men. All too many people have been in the situation of losing a son, a mate, or a friend who had become ill because they no longer saw the purpose of life. The disease had taken over, and they decided that life would end. The numbers are high, they're bad, and we have to change them. To that end, we have a variety of tools and policies that were agreed together in the last term when the first approval was adopted in the history of Generalis policy and mental health action programme. For this, the highest praise may be given. former health minister. Words, however, must follow action. So I want to take advantage of this opportunity to give the highest order. The health minister of Feari Proppér is the importance of this category, as well as the importance of follow-up of policy. One of the aims of the policy is to continue to increase the knowledge and awareness of the public in the media. This certainly is important, for it helps to counteract prejudice and ignorance. It's hard enough to deal with your illness. But it is not enough to increase the discussion of mental health; governments must assist. It has been shown that in the early stages of both the health and social systems, the most important problems are to be identified and addressed. Mental - health issues include: Emphasis on increased prevention, but their importance will be late listed. In addition, there is a need to increase the availability of psychological support within high school and in health care and to improve the quality of health care facilities in order to perform this most urgent phase of service. At that point, the first stage of the problem, we must not deal with those who suffer from mental illness. If left unchecked, the problem can quickly come up with a serious deterioration. We know too many of that. Madam President. Too many Icelanders are killed by mental illness. We must recognize the serious consequences of this threat. [[The president calls.]] The will of the council is clear, and the foundation has been laid with the approved mental - health policy, but the project ahead is on top of it. I'm on top of it. A health minister for good works in this field and knows that most people in this room are willing to assist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u16	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to say I want to say thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for a tip he brought here for an unexpected effect on foreign students' income companies. I think it's probably because we're going to be directed to the relevant Minister that they're taking these cases into consideration. I think the rules involved can be adjusted so that those who come here for study will not be made more difficult in the middle of school, and the circumstances changed in some way. The danger in situations such as distress, is that some are either released from studies or turn to black jobs or some such. Of course, neither is what we are seeking in this relationship. I think there's every reason to reconsider. Other than that, I just wanted to mention in this discussion that I was a little surprised at each speech. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir earlier on behalf of management in committees. It was estimated that the government groups had ideas that had led to more involvement in the administration of committees than ever before. This was not achieved, and I challenge her to inquire about it in her own order how it turned out that it did not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u17	A respectable president. I come up here to correct myself and humbly apologize. I made it a point in my speech earlier to hear the words of a man. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, to the head of the welfare committee, why. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty. I sincerely apologize for that. That was a mistake on my part. Hv. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty I know only for good when it comes to these matters and have only heard her speak in the spirit that I myself spoke here. I expect her to be a good associate with her in these matters and to believe that she will be even more a member of the team than I am in that fight. I humbly apologize for the rashness I made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u18	Madam President. I requested a special discussion on the terms of the ideal disability in order to get the focus and policy of a new government on how and whether to improve their terms during the election season and how and whether to engage in the organization of disability. The fact is, the ideal disability has not improved in the proportion of others in this country. They include those who are most likely to live in poverty and who do not live in decent conditions. At the end of the last assembly, the local authorities made more changes in pensions, making the pay for living in poorer families increased to 227,833k. per month. For those living alone, a resurgence was raised to bridge the gap to 280 of you. K. which will be minimum in 2017. The remunerations are reduced by a dollar to a dollar. The last member of the board decided to increase the significance of this 100% impairment. Until then, there was an agreement to reduce them in the social security system, which has been job-relevant, but the debate had been about increasing the work-making process. With this decision, microchips and others who live alone and who live on the extracurricular scale are greatly reduced by the loss of dollars. By permission of the President, the Declaration of Independence Party, the Restoration and the Career's Future: The work programme and the microenergy pension system will thus be made more flexible in promoting work market participation. So I ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs whether he intends to promote a change in job records. When it comes to changing the focus from microenergy evaluation to the performance assessment, most people agree that it is a more positive approach to evaluate what the individual can do than to highlight what he cannot do. But it's hard for me to understand this importance on my ability to work properly. Isn't the microenergy evaluation plus a total of 100%? If we know the microenergy assessment, we will know exactly what the staff is doing. Or is there someone else's definition of professional ability? I hope that before the work programme is recorded, as foretold, it will be done at the highest rate. The minister carefully studied the experience of other countries and how the reevaluation has affected the ideal microorganism, e.g. correspondent in Britain In particular, I would like to highlight two studies of the results of a performance assessment in Britain both published in 2015. One is made up of scholars at the University of Liverpool and Oxford, bearing the title, by permission of President First, do no grief, which can be rendered "Don't make the problem worse. " The other is from the same year made by scholars from the University of Liverpool and the National Institutes of Health in Britain, with the permission of a president, Fit For Work or Fit For Unemployment? Which can be translated as: Can I be employed or qualified to be unemployed? Both studies provide significant results of the poor effects of functioning assessments on those with impaired function due to psychiatric disorders and chronic illness. When changing to a well-being assessment, the government should learn from the British bad experience and avoid going on their way rather than look to Norway, where there has been some improvement in the performance of this assessment, although it has not been very successful. It has nothing to do with changing the assessment of the status of people who, for some reason, do not have 100% skills if the state or job life as a whole has no obligation when it comes to the recruitment of part - time workers or flexible work hours. For example, some may require expensive tools, and still others may have 100% jobs, whereas for the rest of their time only 20% of their ability. The situation must also be taken into account, such as in a country where employment life is not as varied as in the capital area. How should a person make sure that his or her conduct is safe and decent? What happens if you don't get a job after your job assessment? Is it really true that after the work record, people are reduced in pensions but are increasing instead of unemployment reforms, which are temporary resources and less than monthly wages? This may be the case with the forwarding of a rural society, where there is a lower price. I feel that there should be a priority at the government, as well as a significant improvement in the quality of disability, doing everything possible with support in school work, with help to people who can strengthen their positions, shorten a waiting list for health care and better mental - health care and a real need for work. Some will never be able to crash their fields in a job market. They also need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u19	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir for filming this case. In short, when social security was revised last year, a review of the pension system to the elderly failed to complete for disability. Therefore, preliminary measures were taken to increase the extension specifically in order to meet the same criteria for minimum income for those living alone who are in contracts of a general labour market, i.e. ... they'llcomeat 280yous. K. from the beginning of this year and of 300 you. K. from the beginning of the next year. You're right. A senator points out, this is not the best solution. However, there is a door - to - door review of the improving process of disability and impairment in the same way that was done to the elderly and hopefully with a simple, consistent reduction of income, regardless of who they are, 45% impairment in the elderly today, but in very different ways in the case of microplicity. This will be the case with us as soon as possible, and actually in the Ministry Department's Constitution its bill during the current council. The discussion, however, also focuses on the recording or induction of the job performance assessment. That's where I'd like to say it's very high on our list of priorities. To me, this is an enormous task. This is not a single universal solution when it comes to disability, we know it well, and it is a number of people that this does not apply. In fact, turning away from evaluating people from what they cannot, as it were, has been a very long discussion of disability. A senator mentioned, to evaluate it according to what it can do. There are other factors. We have a disability problem. We're seeing a very large increase in disability over the last three decades or so, since the proportion of people in micro-energy reforms has fallen from about 3% of the 16◯60 year age group, respectively, for approximately 9% today. This is about triple in about 30 years. It is everything in the community, and the cost to each individual is tremendous. We know the consequences of disability in less activity, social isolation, increased health problems, etc. It is not just a matter of social security costs, of course, of the quality of life and of opportunities that are available to them. That is why there is a growing emphasis on the ability to work and the subsequent rehabilitation of the work. There's a lot to look to. We need to look for ways in the rehabilitation program, which we already have some active experience, which has been successfully wronged, but we also know that there are some cases, more serious cases, since we need to give more support in the efforts and need to make better use of it. It is also clear that we need to give more support when it comes to completing the job and seeking a job or even going to study. There are factors that we are considering in connection with the revision of the law, how we can get a better grip on the whole thing. We also need to invest in this category much more than we have done. Of course, we know the problems, the consequences of disability, and the policy of this government is greatly improved by the mental - health services of young people. We need to look into psychological and mental health services both in elementary school and in high school. We need to look at what causes children to feel bad at school and eventually peel out of school, which, in time, consumes the risk of disability. We see the problem of a primary school analysis, which ultimately substantially increases the risk of late disability. We need to cover all of that, and it will be part of our plans for the implementation of work assessments and employment rehabilitation. Finally. In general, there is much to consider. We need to get involved in that discussion. We need to take pride in ourselves, and we need to invest in helping people to overcome disability. Of course, we need to provide materially for people by means of contributions, and that has already been done with 280 of you. K. The criteria and the 300 points. K. Quantum. [[The president calls.]] We need to consider, though, how we prevent the growing numbers of people in disability and how we can improve the effectiveness of people and properly encourage them to take part in business matters for those to whom they are relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u20	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Oddný A Harðardóttir Hardydotir for starting a discussion on the terms of an ideal disability. This is a very important matter, for we are talking about a group of people who often have very bad feet in our society. It is in a more sensitive position and is more likely to live in poverty than most other groups do. It must always be taken into account when discussing these matters. As a community, we must want as many people as possible to participate and participate in a workforce, in fact, the key to adults taking part in community activities. Of course, it is good to look at people's abilities rather than their own. But here we must be careful not to let some word mislead us that may sound good. If we do not dig into what is behind that word, we are likely to do so. Hence, when it comes to changing and even streamlining the global insurance system, it is often referred to as taking up the quality of life, that it never becomes so that the foundation of the welfare system will simply be so strong that people fall between the meshworks. Hence, it is important when we discuss changes in the system that there will always be steps so that people simply do not fall apart. It was a false emphasis that in the past government had to increase the magnitude of a dollar against a dollar's impairment. I'm worried that it'll make it really hard for us to change the system because we went in the wrong direction. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that we listen to the viewpoints of the Microcollar Community and Developmental Fundes when it comes to job-separation and that we build a new system, we consider that the system works for everyone, including those with very little ability to work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u21	Madam President. In order to further strengthen the status of the disability and improve the social security system, we need to build on a whole-scale policy that aims first to ensure adequate production of disability, second, to promote further rehabilitation with the aim of increasing the social activity of disability and third, to improve the preservation of the workforce, in the health and education systems aimed at reducing the incidence of disability. Happily, in recent years the level of evaporation has continued to grow, thanks to that fact. during the last terms of terms, the increase in prosperity and the well - being of the government, but obviously this course needs to be continued. In this regard, members of Congress may be reminded that contributions to this legal class increased by 10%, from 2016 to 2017, about 5 billion. Then there is the joy of the government's aim to adopt a workforce estimate. This is most likely a more effective way than the current disability assessment to help people return to the labour market if they were standing outside it for a while. Finally, Mrs. President, it can be said that the number of males aged 20 in the age range has increased most, by 27% over the five year period of 2010-2015. The main cause of the disability of this young person is mental illness. That development requires that we return. I have high hopes that the government's plans for increasing access to mental - health services, including those of the United States, would increase access to mental - health services. with psychology services on health care and in high school, there is an important step in improving the quality of life and effectiveness of this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u22	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný Harðardóttir daughter for putting this matter into discussion. It's very important. Today's welfare situation is a clear example of a lack of farsighted and focalal policy on how we want to build a community. What is our future view of welfare? I'm going to be just super-violence and give myself that we as a community see the benefits of releasing the enormous human resources that we have and creating equal opportunities and increasing the individual's freedom to thrive within our community. Not to be drunk, but to everyone in society's rights, a right to those who cannot work despite unemployment, and to those who can win or try to win the necessary security if their health fails or worsens. The pressures of being sick, of giving up one's career, and of being an invalid in a modern society, of the pressures of putting an eye on Iceland, and of burden on them during their illness. All of us know the impact of insecurity and its pressures on our health. A crown in return does not lead to adequate forwarding. Rather, it causes people to lose their job markets, where the impairment would cut into the safety net, a safety network that could hardly serve its purpose. The evaluation seems to have the aim of reducing the number of microorganisms rather than helping them, and this policy has been associated with increased suicide rates and increased use of antidepressants in countries where this has been tested. A policy taken on the basis of saving one place in the system without a complete view is very shortsighted. Putting people down under stress and restricting their freedom to self - determination and to lead decent lives on their own terms does not serve society, with the consequences of simply moving to the expense of the system. The cost is shifted from the social security system to the health system or possibly the justice system. The most reasonable and long - term effective way to reduce the number of micropairs and thus reduce the cost of the social security system is to promote the economic and social freedom of individuals in the community. [[The president calls.]] Let us stop being shortsighted, and let us promote one another to live decent lives here with joy, beauty, and love guided by them. It is not wishful thinking but a realistic goal that can be achieved if we just choose it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u23	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, as well as for the manager and then the secretary for the answers. I have questions that I hope a minister can answer when he arrives in his second speech. It is already in the Constitution and the Government Declaration that it is intended to produce a bill for the implementation of employment assessments and that the changes in the biosurgetion of disability are expected as well. What I would like to ask the minister is what he estimates, and his Ministry, that this change will cost. Since there is now a new financial policy for the council and is now being developed in a financial committee, which says that it would be unwise to set up new and permanent spendings on the basis of the rest of it, I ask how these two things can be harmonized, on the other hand, with financial policies and the plans of the Ministers to make adjustments. Is the minister with a promise I really hope of making sure that capital gains into these changes? This does not mean a dozen or hundreds of millions. Rather, we are talking about billions. It is necessary to hear from government officials whether the funds will not be guaranteed. Another factor that I think is very important, and hopefully the minister can also come up with is that there is a lot of insecurity and panic over micro-pity about the changes mentioned here. I certainly felt it when I was working on these changes. How does the Minister intend to approach the introduction of these changes? What will be the status of those who then exist in the system and then those who introduce new ones into the system? First of all, I ask, is it not certain that this will be financed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u24	Madam President. Surely the day will not pass when we will not receive news or messages in one way or another of poor economic conditions. They know the senators. It is a group of individuals and families who live in real poverty, feed and dress children, follow the criteria of their playmates, deal with the declines that arise when a child in the home becomes 18 years old and disappointed when changes and oversowed social security reforms become less than nothing. For example, since the New Year's Eve disability pay is defined as earning a living when rent is assessed. This takes on a number of people, especially those who live alone and can study tens of thousands of thousands a month. Real estate continues to rise in an advanced real estate market. In the ensuing election, all groups declared that priority was to improve the quality of disability, and peers declared that the terms needed to be corrected again on May 1, 2016. Now, the next thing we know, there will be no more justice, and there seems to be a loss of interest in this vulnerable group in spite of any other statement. In 2015, according to the National Institute of Economics, the prenupity of total biofuels in 2015 was closer to the same one as in 2009, only 1% had been raised, despite low inflation. However, the total cost of full - time money had increased by 15%. Is there any justice in this situation? Is this the only richest welfare society in the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for what. Harðardóttir This special discussion is being conducted here. The Government Treaty makes it clear that all who suffer loss of function due to disease or accidents should be given the opportunity to revise when medical treatment and rehabilitation are completed. Of course, this is appropriate, and in those situations where it will be handled, it may not be necessary to say so. By contributing as much as possible, those at some point are affected by loss of function as much as possible to prevent unnecessary increases in the rates of disability in the country. In addition, keeping that in mind is of utmost importance, even if limited social functioning and the quality of life of those who have suffered such loss. Achieving this goal is an up-to-date job assessment. Thus, the micro-energy pension system will be made more flexible, which once again encourages participation in the workforce. Besides, I'd like to mention, a respectable president, that the government's policy is also to promote the independence of people with disability, both in business and in transportation. The government is now working in collaboration with rural society that the user - controlled personal assistance will be established as one of the services of those with disability. It is fundamental that people with disability have a choice to direct their own ministry. Finally, it is ambitious in this government that the long timely introduction of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People will be completed on the first end, and they have been drawn far too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u26	Madam President. Sadly, during the past few years, there is a great lack of improvement in national farming, and there has been a financial gain to those who rely on the social security system for forwards. In between, there has been a growing gap. Sadly, the changes in both social insurance laws for the elderly and again in the fall were impaired in order to cause one to be inexpensive, but at the same time in both cases, in order to make it known that the evolution of the lowest remuneration would be followed by 280,000 kroners, which are known to be only those elderly who live alone and who receive full household support for this goal, and in the case of microchiptics, almost all the increase was taken through the continuation insurance process through the social assistance laws that is again restricted to a dollar for income. It cannot be rated high. I'm a little closer, to be honest, on the plans of the current government in these matters, unless it's time to adopt a driving function assessment instead of a microenergy assessment. We've heard it before, and it's been going on for a long time. I think that it must be warned of the overconfidence of working performance assessments instead of microenergy evaluation that it will improve the status of existing persons, that it will increase the amount of money, that it will have such an effect. The incidence of disability is also a concern, especially among young men, but will humans change it by working ability, instead of by disability evaluation? Should we not take the root of the problem? Is it not where his source is? We're well aware of, for example. The weaknesses of our mental - health service and the support of young people who are in trouble need to deal with the problem, where the source is. The following categories are different and do not solve the underlying problem. It's about the large interaction of payments from the social security system, pension rights and other revenues. I don't think we've reached an end stop and can't be happy, for example. the results of last New Year's Eve, that there's only a $25,000 income-free market. per month. [[The president calls.]] Wherever you went in January, you heard the dissatisfaction of it. People spoke extensively that this would discourage them from earning money even if they had a job or a chance to do it. I think we need to keep on winning these matters with great force and hopefully something out of our present position. Minister of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u27	A respectable president. It is painful that a review of the case of disability could not be completed in the last reimbursement of social security done last year, including coastal areas. on the work ability and attitude to do so. The discussion has shown that the assessment should include some form of penalties to prevent disability. On the other hand, I view professional assessment primarily as an instrument for measuring the ability to function and then to enhance the level of disability in a labour market. There is no way to determine people for life's disability. It is a solution to enable people to work in the society in which they are born and in which they live. I mean, work is involved in social and employment, which leads to a better sense of well - being and better opportunities for living. I don't think disability is a single and stable group. It's, for example. Just looking at a person who can't gain any rights in pensions, those born into disability, including those who become desperate early in the business process, and especially those who fall out of a job market because of accidents or other factors or illness later on in his career. This has to look at things, I think. I think there'll be a better solution to looking at these things in things, but not all of them in the same process and that people's activities can be increased to their work and to share in the community. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u28	President. I'm glad to hear that there is going to be real work to do that will take place in the mental - health policy adopted here and that there will be a special focus on the mental health of young people. I think it's very important, and I hope that in cooperation with the council there will be a long-term policy development, as if I always call it, in the seminaries which call for much consultation between parties so that these events are not being stirred between terms. In view of the fact that now we have three categories of government that are rather on the right, I want to impress present rulers, including the highest power. advisers, to simplify the systems. Because of these difficulties in the systems and their scope of life, much too many fall from one side to another. This in itself increases confidence in this institution as well as insecurity in people who need to take advantage of community support in order to live a decent life. These are people who need our taxes so that they can live with dignity despite the setbacks in life, and many of us are happy to pay taxes to live up to them. The word invalid sucks. Getting that word over you is a bad influence. I've seen it on close relatives and other people so if we can find a way to change the concept of disability, that we also stop putting people in percentages, but first of all, I think we can stop having a system where people are lazy to be active in society. [[The president calls.]] Thus, Piratars are completely against a crown of decrease in all the microorganism and older cities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u29	V.E.G. President. We'll talk in terms of disability, and I'd like to start by saying thank you, okay? paritaprevir For starting this important discussion, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. First, I would like to say how important it is that peace be made between the leadership and the grass of the Quantum Community and the government at the establishment of a new system due to the payment of disability. It is important that this new system will be set up and spoken of as being responsible for the state, what employment responsibility will be, and how the job and society should play through new system changes. I reiterate the importance of this reconciliation and the fact that these changes can be achieved, especially if we're looking at the pay categories that are underrequired in the new system to try to establish, that we're able to unite these remunerations and reduce the limit, that the dollar against the decline will be terminated. It is also necessary to include enough funds so that changes can occur. But in a new government budget, it's not the budget to be found, at least I find it. Could not connect to torrent %1. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to make us what? Councilmen and others are aware of the costs and costs of this new system. I must also express my concern about increasing the incidence of disability. We see many young people come into disability now, many of them with social problems. This brief talk is essential that we work better at prophylaxis, improve access to psychologists, and shorten a waiting list for analysis. Also, I would like to mention early intervention in the school system, which can be extremely important in helping individuals become active members of society and feeling better, which is truly important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u30	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Parliaments before this discussion. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the growth of disability, and I'm not going to argue with him about the percentage, though I have information about a different number. I remind you, it's not about disability to get hurt when there's an end to a lot of them. They have been through a strict estimate of disability and have been concerned about their survival at the same time. In fact, most of them have been through much distress and anxiety over the process that usually continues after their evaluation because their pension is so low and they do not get along. Main reasons for disability, as well as musculoskeletal disorders, are mental disorders. Psychiatric problems are far more common in countries where inequities are higher than in communities characterized by greater equations. In fact, this is generally true of people's health and well - being. In addition to the humiliation and humiliation of many poorer people in this country, many social security systems, low pensions, and, in some cases, humiliation and humiliation. The discussion has often encouraged it, and this is distressing. If we are serious about taking measures that are effective in reducing the number of people with disability assessments, we should contribute to an increase in social equations. I think it's obvious, because I'm equal, but to convince others to support the research that increasing income balance can be improved by the social and spiritual well - being of everyone in the community. Although positive results may be more balanced among those who have least enjoyed more than others, they do. So I'm happy with that thought. Minister to invest in the jury, hope that it will be, and that we will all profit from improving the quality of disability. Finally, I'd like to say that it must immediately address the negative effects that change housing will have on the economy. The increase in renting capacity at the same time, whether in the local communities or in the general market, and this has recently been observed, is a very negative influence on the quality of the poor population. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u31	Madam President. I thank you again for this fine discussion. It is a joy to be part of it. It is true that there is no harm in the prospect of an increase in disability. I think it is much more a reminder for us who are responsible for these support systems that they may not have worked properly. We need to make sure that they ensure an acceptable forward, but that is not enough, that is not the solution. We also need to make sure that people are supported for the effectiveness and support of their return to employment. I believe we need to approach it in a more complete way. When it comes to mental health, feeling at school, this way into disability, e.g. Through the long - term lack of employment we know, we need to be much more ambitious in supporting people for activity again than in merely solving their progress problem by a decision on disability. I also agree with the discussion that there are other ways in which we could talk about it. We're talking about people with impaired ability, sometimes with no ability to work. The word alone has been given an extremely negative load in this unfortunate discussion. As I say, we need to approach this whole way, so our support systems support each other, and we take care of them, in a manner similar to that of our health - care system, that our support systems talk together, whether in the mental - health service, when it comes to working ability to evaluate and recycling, and at the end of returning to work where possible, people do not fall between ships and docks in that material, that they do not have to live in fear of losing their ability to pass through these provisions so that we can get out of the problem in a reasonable way. We also need to recognize that we often have wrong motives in this system. A dollar a year is a very unfortunate system when we are trying to promote greater activity, increase the level of employment involved. [[The president calls.]] We need to revise this. We also need to consider how we support low - income groups, regardless of where their income comes from, that we are not wrong in it but when it comes to questions about cost. We know this will be a costly system. It is estimated that billions are going through these improvements. In the new government alone, we have put in new government policy policies, dollars, and pennies, but we have spoken very clearly that we will prioritize government spendings in the interests of health and welfare systems. It's part of it, and we'll make sure it gets the necessary funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u32	A respectable president. I hereby recommend an interpretation resolution of a chain responsibility group. This proposal is made by members of Congress on the left movement of ◯ green supply or group of all members of the United States. The first carrier is Rafney Hyney Magnúsdóttir, who is absent today, and therefore I recommend the case. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide a social and equal minister to appoint a group of workers who are involved in making a chain-priority bill of contractors and main contractors with the aim of establishing chain responsibility for a contractor market. The team will be appointed representatives of the European Union, Iceland's Work Programme, Iceland's Common Association, Business Association, Industrial Association, Government Overemployer and IRS Director. Mr. Secretary to appoint the Chairman of the group. The group's work aims to ensure that contractors and main contractors are financially responsible for the financial subsidies of public pay, collective pay and pay-related pay, insurance and other contracts paid for employees and for that reason and to take the changes to all sectors. The minister will present the bill to the 147th legislature Council. A paper with the conclusion says: More recently, the media reports of violations of collective agreements and labour legislation, social subsidies, and various types of tax frauds associated with contractors in the Icelandic labour market. In some cases, the concept of dwindling jobs where collective contracts, laws, and equipment are ignored. This is a major development in the Icelandic labour market and natural and important that the Council responds. Workers and trade unions and professional unions have held a fight against these offenses and large labor markets, such as the Kingdom Buyer's VAT, Landsactivation, Akureyri Town and Reykjavíkurborg, have responded by making a commitment to have a chain of commitments in their contracts with contractors and contractors. In part, tax authorities have taken action to curb the tax laws. While some efforts have been made in the fight against inefficiency and tax fraud, the concerted forces of remuneration, employment drivers, and the government, it is absolutely clear that adjustments are needed to prevent this practice by general and tiresome means against which chain responsibilities will be directed. The chain responsibility is that a main contractor is thus responsible for his subsidiary and suppliers'terms of collective agreements and legalities. A major contractor thus becomes eligible if a subcontracts against labour - market legislation in such a way as to create an improvement. The commitment of commitment, therefore, involves that one enterprise, the main contractor, can be responsible for the salary of another company, which is sub-repeated, and other payments related to having an employee at work, whether according to a general employment contract or a contract. The rules for chain responsibilities protect the rights and ideals of the remuneration, and for this reason this proposal is proposed to the Council, but since the violations of the responsibility are directed against, it is usually designed to strengthen the competitive status of the offender and to enable them to gain an unfair profit, it is certainly also in the interests of the decent and law - abiding professional workers that the chain responsibility will be established. It would, in fact, be a very important legal step in a Icelandic labour market and an additional timely one. There are a number of assumptions that are observed when considering the implementation of chain responsibilities, such as the extent of this chain responsibility, whether to cover the entire labour market or only part of it, what factors it should take and which party should monitor the implementation of the chain responsibility, how to follow up, what to do with information companies, etc. Of course, some of these opinions have already been discussed in connection with the labor movement and the team of professional drivers, while other counts of opinion have been resolved. There is no reason for the inexperienced to expect anything other than the full will of them, i.e. both the labor movement and the employment drivers involved in the Icelandic labour market to handle these issues responsibly with the community's global interest. Reports on violations of collective agreements and labour legislation have been made that they are very often affected by foreign workers from contractors. According to officials of the labor union, foreign workers who are employed by a foreign subsidiary have, in various cases, proved to be far less effective than Icelandic labour agreements and the rules for homemaking. The EU Directive 2014/67/EU, which is called the European Commission Directive, makes it clear that chain responsible to European Community legislation is in line with the European Economic Areas Directive and will be intending to implement this Directive in Icelandic just according to the EEA Convention's regulations. The European Court's sentence from October 12, 2004, on No. C-60/03, also verifying the responsibility of the main contractor on the undergraded salary of sub-products and the staff subsidies for minimum wage. In Norway, which has the same position as the European Community legislation, including the rules for the export of the European Economic Area and the free flow of labour, changes in law on the general value of collective agreements adopted chain guarantees for Norwegian work rights were made by the start of 2010. This would be a similar law. The building industry's commitments were specifically set up in Sweden in 2014 by a collective agreement, and it is entirely on a private foundation, not part of the work rights law. The chain responsibility arrangement is well-known and widely carried out, sometimes bound to specific agreements, sometimes bound to specific agreements, but sometimes in total legislation as proposed here. But it is important, more dignified, that it be introduced into an Icelandic labour market and make the needed changes in the law. As a result, this matter is presented in the Senate. A respectable president. I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee for discussion and development in agreement with the nature of the strategy. Business and economic and business committees, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u33	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for this story. I find the obligatory proposal very interesting. In view of the fact that I know what to do. Svavarsdóttir I'd like to ask her if this discussion has taken place before the conference. I've heard of the community conference. Some rural societies have established the standard for buying that their communities themselves have a responsibility when they buy services. I think that felt really good. This is well understood not only by the labour market law, by the entitlement of rights, by the risk of man traders and the like but also by the health of the contractor market, especially since it has often been widely used for subjugation. Some small contractors have been subjected to such a struggle. I wanted to hear from the senator whether this discussion was conducted in the past and whether it might have been examined and examined by the council or by the field of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u34	President. I want to thank you. A senator resists. In effect, the need for such a particular matter becomes increasingly urgent from year to year. This is one of the characteristics of an Icelandic labour market in ever greater numbers, such as the driving force. A senator knows very well from the scene of local government, to cover this whole thing in a complete way, this position. In the left movement, we have had a conversation with the labor movement and have emphasized it in our recent platoon hearings to discuss in particular what is the most urgent thing in Icelandic legislation in order to ensure the right person and to do so, as well. A senator said, to ensure the health of this contractor market, which, of course, supports good and sound work in the country. Of course, this has not been discussed in such a formal manner as this suggestion is made. But like a dog. A senator has noticed, and the proposal has been suggested to call the representatives to the table, i.e. a representative of unions and labor unions, but also of industry and employment organizations, and then of the tax authorities, to put together a line on what is exactly in the legislation to be considered. I would not be surprised to learn that there is a knowledge and an opinion of this class of the Ministry of the Workplace. Actually, I think it's quite likely. However, this proposal is aimed at urging the Council to agree that we would be supported by the Council of Government in starting an acceptable legal arrangement in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer says here that I am making a great contribution. Actually, I've heard, and I'm not a legalist myself, a number of the problems of putting the chain responsibility into law. I see that there are other countries here who have done it. I'm glad that this council proposal comes up and talks about these matters and grows up. I agree with what. It is as if this project is becoming more and more urgent and has become more urgent in recent years, since we have become increasingly aware of an example of something unhealthy in a workforce that we did not know or were not in daylight. I thank you for that, and I think it'll be an interesting discussion to take and it's good for all of us to develop it and figure out all its moments of friendship.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u36	President. I want to thank you. Once again and especially for taking the matter seriously on a material basis. It is of great importance here at the General Assembly to be supported by Congress immediately after the first year. While the entire group of left - green people contributes to this, this is obviously a parapolitic matter. It's about justice for a whole Icelandic community. Like what? A senator came in to find us and to the point that we see evidence of human halls, we see evidence of more and more social subsidies, etc. It is unacceptable, except for the lawgiver to handle the matter in some way. Of course, this is not exactly what to do but, rather, that these parties must be called to the table and wondered at least Is it not proper to take the legal course in these areas? As shown in the past, this is done differently in the countries around us. In the example, this may be done only under the cover of collective agreements or in contracts or by contracts or by contracts approved by individual companies. However, there is also the possibility of going through this legal route, which makes the workforce more difficult for the entire labour market. That's the one hit here. That's what's suggested in this proposal. I hope that the good and positive words that come here in this conversation of ours. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter represent the matter as at least not being locked up in some traditional conflict between government and government position but all of us take a look at it with open eyes and with the grammatical content of the Senate foregrounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u37	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of a uniform index price. This is one of the priorities of our candidates during this session. All the moving agents of this proposal are why. Councilmen of the forward party, but that's why. A senator who stands here, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, who is the chairman of the case, and why. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Lilja Dögg Dög, Alfreðsdóttir Dörfrótttir, Harðardóttir Hardar, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurnar, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egil. It's about hiding the highest. Economic and economic administrators to appoint an independent team of experts who identify the benefits and weaknesses of making changes in the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that the standard index price will be used on time and again, instead of the index value of consumer prices. As a result of the analysis work, particular attention will be given to the use of inflation in major Iceland's business countries to assess the impact this change would have on remuneration, credit rates, securities of loans and interest. According to the proposal, the General Assembly shall report with key results no later than September 2017. In a paper with the proposal, but I'm going to read its contents, it says that proposals on the same subject were submitted to Council 145, but the case was not completed, 643. In this country, the index price for consumer consumption has been used as a measure of inflation and to calculate insurance since 1995. However, the European Union uses the so - called uniform index of consumer prices, which include the purpose of which are valid. ensuring a concerted inflation measures in countries where EUR is currency. The role of both indexes is to measure the prices of the products and services that the public buys for personal use, while different goods are fundamental to either index. It is likely most likely at the expense of its own housing, which is a class of products within the index value of consumer prices and not the standard index of consumer prices. The increase in housing prices is thus calculated directly into the index of consumer prices but has only a secondary effect on the development of an integrated index of consumer prices via rent. Keeping housing prices and costs outside of products that are calculated for consumer calculus has supported the point that this is more than simply an investment. Another major difference in index is that travel costs are excluded from calculation in the index value of consumer prices, not the standard index of consumer prices. The cost of inflammation using the index of consumer prices is generally greater inflation than using the uniform index. As a result, housing prices and the cost of your own housing are of prime importance. That's how it came, e.g. ... tothe last issue of the Bank of Money for the Bank of Iceland, 4th tl. 2016, to the time of the annual prices in October. has been estimated to be 1.8% but the index value of non-house workers dropped by 0.5% from the previous year. Inselling to the agreed index of consumer prices was estimated to be 1.1% in September. Such differences can have a significant impact on the development of insurance loans. For example, a total of 20 million dollars. K. If you had a $3.85% interest rate, you'd be assured of a equally paid loan to 40 years. K. By 1.8% inflation, but more than 49 million. K. if we had 1.1% inflation. This makes it clear that the chances of insurance spending would be considerably less likely to affect the price-separation of deposit and loan using a uniform index of consumer prices than the current arrangement. So, in the foundation, the change would be in favor of the majority of the debt. But the opposite is true of the owners of prices, largely the pensions. Iceland's Common Association recently challenged the government and the General for promoting the provision of the index of consumer insurance under the terms of growth and insurance insurance paid below without housing personnel. As stated above, this arrangement suggests that there will be a full analysis of its benefits and weaknesses to adopt a uniform index price for consumer consumption instead of an index for incalculative prices and insurance on land with special consideration for public credit and remuneration rates, money prices and effects on growth, including possible secondary effects. The results of this analysis can then be used as a basis for a complete assessment of whether and how the change will be triggered. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of this council arrangement that I recommend here. We're gonna go for a second. Transporters feel that there is a very cautious suggestion where we conclude at the highest level. The secretary of finance is appointing a team on this important matter and looking at all sides. We certainly hope that this important proposal will succeed and work on this subject will begin. We're gonna go for a second. Councilmen of the proposal will follow this matter and examine its progress at the council. If this works, of course, we will call for the results of the report, and it is worth saying that this proposal of our candidates is also an attempt to get more whales. Senators who join us to help with the impact that insurance can have on a home in the country that is in debt. As many people know, before the 2013 General election, we were able to cancel the prices of consumer loans. It was then revealed that when it came to Congress, the stocking of insurance was not much of a full share, for many of us had different opinions and opinions about that ideologies. So we tried on our jobs, both by promoting Congress and by writing articles and discussing them, to open up opportunities for other measures to reduce the impact of insurance on our home. In this context including we wrote why. Senators, me and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, will do an article on the insurance policy. With the permission of the president, I'd like to read a little from that article. It appeared on August 11, 2016, at Visi, which says that "it is from Jehovah. "Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The value of insurance has been determined by high - quality ideas so that at least such loans will not be available from the mortgage. The ideas that have been developed include to place a roof on insurance so that borrowers and borrowers may trade risks. So if the inflation occurs over a certain percentage, borrowers take the risk beyond that. Another idea that had been proposed was to change the calculation of inflation and insurance so that the standard index of consumer prices would be used on time and again instead of the index of consumer prices. Thus, as this synonym suggests, the residence factor would be taken out of the index. The article also states that the matter of Congress, i.e. of the uniform index of consumer prices has been submitted by members of the Agency. It didn't get paid for at the last council, but it's submitted back here. This shows the determination. The senators of the forward party are involved in these matters. The article also explains how to place limits on the number of valued loans that are possible for loans, but it is now that financial loans or banks'holdings grow significantly when inflation takes place. It will be a property transfer from country's homes to financial institutions. In addition, the revised calculation of the price insurance in this article is considered, but the idea is to change the calculation of the prices of the loans so that the changes in index are calculated and paid by each currency, not by a head chair. This would prevent snowball effects that insurance can have on the credit system in case of inflation fire. A respectable president. It is to be welcomed, though we are. The senators have wanted to go further in the last terms of the insurance policy, however, that certain steps were taken by the operation ◯ The first real estate◯, the law on buying on the first apartment. There were three laws that could rightfully be selected between the provision of an additional tax in the special savings, which is a warrant for the assessment of the cumulative tax to buy on the first estate, a license to stipulate additional fees on the head loan guaranteed by a deposit at the first apartment over 10 years of continuous periods, and, finally, a warrant for an additional charge as a deposit on unsecured loan guaranteed by a deposit on the first apartment paid on its headl. Resources are available to all who pay or who will pay for their special property and who have not previously owned property. These laws served as an incentive for the removal of unconvinced loans. These were permanent resources. It was designed to reduce the value of insurance, to reduce the burden of payment and the head of the first mortgage loans, and to raise his own money for the first apartment. I'm not hiding that I'd wanted to go further in these measures, that those who lost housing in the crash could have shared in the operation or those who haven't had a home for many years and had been having trouble getting back into the housing market. However, time was running out for this legal arrangement and work. As was true in many other jobs, there were lawsuits. However, this first piece of property was a step in the right direction, but statistics show that during the past quarter of the year, the first purchases ranged from 23 to 2.29% of the wealth market, which was an increase in previous years. A respectable president. Dissociating insurance is a big deal for us candidates, but we see and have found in our congregational activities that this has not been more of a part of the operation. Still, we allow ourselves to give up new ideas and look to the neighboring countries in that regard. These days, we also see reports of an increase in real estate prices. In this context, I would like to read a piece of a fist, written by President Vilhjálmur, a certain Birgisson, a labor leader of Aquilin, this morning. It's completely intense and incomprehensible, but once again it's an increase in real estate markets and an increase in rent prices that drive inflation. This applies both before crash and after collapse. But today, it is 1.9% inflation of 12 months. If not taken along with the housing team, inflation is negative by 0.9%. This means that home prices have increased by 38 billion in the past 12 months, but if the mortgage wasn't already involved in securities, the homes' debt would have dropped by 18 billion. This is a contrast between 56 billion people, Icelandic homes, and consumers. I still, by permission of the president, would like to quote Njálsson G. words and fistula, the son of Njál, who says, by permission of the president: On April 26 of the past April, at a meeting of the Federal Department of Money and Business Committee of the United States of England, Már Guðmundsson acknowledged that Iceland's Sidlabanki was the only Savvy Bank that used air quality resources in the interest of a growing decision. He explained this in that they did not agree, but he did not allow them to explain the reasons for the Armada's inconsistencies. The panel says that the bank manager said that we defined a place to eat, but it's not. We invest in housing and use it as a means of saving money. There has been no meaningful explanation for the use of a different form of inflation test, while other money banks use it in directing interest measurements. I hope that if this group becomes a reality, which we sure hope to see, this scene will be examined at the same time. I hope that this matter will be discussed and suggested after the matter is handled materially. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u38	A respectable president. A speech presented here is one of the greatest compliments of economic management in the euro where I have heard it. that there should be a record of inflation in the European region, using them for global economic management in Iceland. I'm aware that the uniform index price is in the form it is now because Member States have not agreed on how to handle the housing work, i.e. in the cost of inflammation assays and in the index. However, it is simply a matter of basic understanding, which appears to be primarily in the head of the candidates, that housing is not consumption. Just as food is part of eating people, living in a house is a permanent consumption. Hv. Sæmundsson It's not eating because I don't eat it. I don't eat car fuel, but it's part of my consumption. So I'm gonna ask you what. A senator: If it were not a solution to this matter, people could choose their standards so that, for example, they could. when housing prices are greatly increased, the terms of the index price as measured today by property and when housing dropped, would benefit from this, or would people be able to choose this uniform European interest number that the candidates admire today? But there is another matter that may vary from one to the next. There was no discussion of the benefits of these inflation measures. I'm going to finish my case now, respectable President. I owe you another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's answer. Listening to him was very interesting. It is very important to look at it when we see these numbers, including those. in the publication of the Secret Bank, showing how much lower inflation would be in our country, we would be using the standard index of consumer prices rather than the index of consumer prices. We would be very useful if a team were formed. It is a very cautious suggestion to start a team to explore its benefits and weaknesses and to see what comes out of that work and what effect it would have as the aim of the proposal would have on the various aspects of the economy; credit, interest, privacy, and other factors. We decided to go this way because we know that there are very different opinions about these factors at the Council, so we'll take a careful step to the ground and find out what this means. I don't believe anything but that. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason may agree that it is worth considering these factors and how they are affected. It's not the same with me, if we're going to be so narrow - minded that we can't look at things other than the ones we agree on being the one and only. This suggestion goes on to explore both the pros and the flaws and the implications of what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u40	A respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to scribble me about a few narrow - minded ideas on this matter. I even suggested that people make a choice. But that would be with the expected change of interest. It was claimed that by this method of measuring or making a loan, valuables were being exported from homes to others. It so happens that the largest owner of securities in this country is a home through a pension fund. It may well be that if that's the case, it's a bad option to secure a pension in the country. What I want to say is very simply that, of course, in different ways, inflation is measured. That is the measured cost of building. It is measured as an index of consumerism with the means that the nation soars on average, and that is even so. with property, because we have real estate, and without real estate, and then these European standards, so that we are somewhat comparable to the European countries that the Agency admires and is well pleased. I warn you there'll be some magic solution on this thing, just as it was claimed during the last council that the insurance would be cut off. [[To the point: Of course.]] You've got it, and I've never been against it, but I've warned you about the fraud involved in this kind of statement, because so-called disloyal loans have some of them. One percent worse price for borrowers than a so-called responsored loan. [[Up front.]] Now try to be reasonable in things. Of course, all things can be considered. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason for a very refreshing answer. We're gonna go for a second. A senator doesn't agree on this, but most of the people I've had a conversation with feel that real estate is not consumption, it's an investment. You wonder, " Do I have a range of interests? ' collection of paintings, as an investment, or if people want to collect ancient cars and other items. But we advanceers, we're like what we're doing. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason knows, very intelligent people, I don't have to tell him. We don't speak in magic solutions. I'd like to read up the point of the proposal, with the permission of the president: A council concluded to hide the highest order. Financial and economic secretarys ordering a group of workers to the left. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason - independent specialists who identify the pros and cons of changing the calculation of inflation to the advantage and to all so we can see if there is something positive about it and if there is anything negative about it -- and insurance insurance so that the standard index price will be used on time thereafter instead of an index price. As a result of the analysis work, particular attention will be given to the use of inflation in major Iceland's business countries to assess the impact this change would have on remuneration, credit rates, securities of loans and interest. Ministers report to the General Assembly with key results no later than September 2017 Well, let's say. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, that this case was accomplished. Then the General would be given a report on the subject that would be of benefit and problem that could lead to a material discussion. Then people would talk about factors that would compromise. I considered this to be a great improvement in our discussion on the subject. General.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u42	A respectable president. I come up here just to emphasize what the 1st transporter suggested and set off with, i.e. that we think it is very important that this uniform index is carefully taken up in view of the fact that the building factor is as conclusively within the measurement as in Iceland. It has also been pointed out, both in discourses. A senator, as well as a publication that may have a major impact on how inflation and, in fact, housing costs develop. Articles have been written. At least I remember reading an article in the morning newspaper that was discussing the taking up of a special index home. I'm sorry, I don't remember what the person who wrote that article, but it was a good reason that this feature would be unlikely to be in the index to measure the inflation, a special index of housing could be created, e.g. magazines from contracts and such. Of course, what interests us is that when something rises or turns into the index, it does not directly affect the debt of the household as we know it well. That is why this route is being considered. Many other ways are there to reduce the impact of the insurance or the index on the housing factor, which, of course, is still open. Unfortunately, all too little will has been, which is hard to explain, at the General and, indeed, in the community also to deal with the spirit that we know about the loans of homes when inflation is possible. Little support has been made because we, I think, have become so -- you can't do it in this chair -- it's somehow so built into our society all together, insurance and stuff. I agree with many who have spoken here and elsewhere that it is important to see the root cause of the problem, perhaps the country's interest. Sadly, the only way out of it has been to walk in the European Union. I don't know what to do with it. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is now determined that he needs to walk in the European Union, but that would certainly be like running into the burning house of the common people, which I know the Senator certainly won't want to do. It is very important for us to start this work to look at the possibilities and opportunities we have to change these years, this roundness that I mentioned earlier, when it comes to housing costs in Iceland. And I'd like to say, too, that I don't agree with what came up against him at the time. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son at what? paritaprevir Arnardóttir Annardótir to live as such, to be consumed by property. Because a great many, and if not the majority of Icelanders, think of it as an investment, and keep their savings in housing. Not everyone has the option to store it in bank accounts or in any fund or anything like that is just not equal when it comes to this in Iceland. This has been the form that most people have advised, especially young people, to do when they get over their heads, that is to have something. There has long been a policy of the Independence Party, especially this special policy. You wonder if he is disappearing, whether he is leaving the special policy when he begins to view it as not a possession, not as an investment, but as an investment. Then you wonder if there is no difference between rent in the eyes of the Independence Party and consumption. I'll do it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u43	A respectable president. This discussion reminds me of a controversy that took place during the conference of physicists a few years ago that debated whether to measure temperature with a Kelvin scale, a Fahrenian scale, or a Celsius scale. Of course, they're all the same. They give different measuring positions but do not change temperature. It's the same with inflation. Inflation is inflation regardless of the measure. There may be different criteria. So I take this popular material, real estate, it's quite simply that property, according to the government's opinion, about about 2% a year. It is the consumption that is being measured in the index of consumer prices as measured here and may be entered into the integrated European indicator, the European Enforcement number, admired by the senators of the Agency. It is in itself a cure for various wrong things that are in their head. I don't know if I can cure the Future Party of most of their ills, but there are many of them, as the people know. But that's different. Then I'm going to mention something else that we can agree on, and there are interest rates in this country. A number of deceptions, e.g. has been spoken at councils, reports on irresponsible loans, and banks advertise disloyal loans. But when surveyed, they have had about 25 years of observation. One hundred percent less borrowing for loans, but so-called insured loans, i.e. The borrowing rates as measured by objective measures using some kind of criteria for inflation have provided a more aggressive favor for borrowing than those recommended in a mental and mental way. These are the so - called disloyal loans. To the destinies of fate, I was looking at a loan rate today on a loan plan that seems to be quite popular, if credit rates can make friends, i.e. on checking account, on loans to individuals on run-off checking. I assume that the loan rates are like this when I break up realism and inflation, about 9% are real. Nobody talks about it. That's what I call high interest, too high. It might be wise for humans to try to look at basics. The key elements are that these realities are quite high. We never get out of some way of measuring inflation and taking it into account. I got to know these indicators, then I worked in the Hagroom, and I published economisaries. Then these prices were included, the European Union's uniform index, and then without real estate prices. This certainly made different conclusions, of course, different types of measurements. Then there was another factor. But I believe that there is good reason to consider why apartment prices continue to rise and increase, especially in southwest urban areas. In fact, a few years ago I studied real estate prices in Western Europe and OECD areas. This led to the conclusion of the writer that once real - estate prices reached flight, it was very inflexible. That's exactly what's happened here. About 1998, real - estate prices have not reached their limit of long - term balance, which appeared to have occurred in 1980 catharsis,1998. It is the real concern, whether this is because of a lack of property or for any other reason. This is what I believe is the real problem, not the way in which inflation testing is carried out. The problem will always be the same. As I said before, I warn that men will use some magical solution. I'm afraid there's no such thing as magic solutions. And to deceive them that disloyal loans are more favorable than securities on the market, they're not. If it happens by hand that you start moving between indexes, the other factor, i.e. The so-called melancholy. The competitiveness we enjoy in financial markets is a concern. There are only three banks here and all with similar terms. But then someone may say, " Wait, there are others who lend, the pensions. ' Yeah, the pension fund also lends real estate money. It just so happens there's a difference between bank loans and pension funds. The difference is of 0.37%, and that is exactly the difference that 62 members of Congress made on the banks - one of the opposing senators. Banks were taxed, tax bills were made to finance the so - called correction of insurance loans. But there's another story, and I'm not going to talk about it. That assignment is now available, and people can reflect on the intelligent promises of that operation. I'm not going to push it up right now. But as I say, the members of the United States are also responsible for raising interest by 0.33/4.4%. No doubt they are proud of it. I remind you that there was one senator who opposed this taxation that resulted in a direct decrease in interest of interest and lack of appreciation. I'm not gonna have any more of my words for you, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his fire speech. I'm not going to be tempted to discuss the senator who alone opposed all others, but he does what he did not necessarily did properly. There are tens of thousands of people out there outside this house who found positive for this operation. Hv. A senator spoke of increasing real estate prices. It's a thing that's very interesting to wonder about. I think it must be quite obvious that the reason for increasing real estate prices, especially in the capital area, in the urban area, is simply because the rural communities in the urban area have not been able to achieve enough of the available property, from a construction site. Second, they have failed to succeed in building apartments for their subjects. We see that there is a lot of pressure on rent prices too. A rent price has grown dramatically because it is a lack of housing. It's different too. There are real estate companies who just compete with young people, individuals, to buy houses or apartments that are in houses that can fit in with some kind of job, whether hotels or anything that uses the budget to earn money. The reason for increasing real estate prices is that the city authorities in Reykjavík, and even the rural areas around Reykjavík, have not been able to succeed. There's thousands of apartments missing. That's why real estate has to go up. And not only that, when men are finally able to build houses, what do they find in Reykjavík? First, we'll have to buy a patch of 1 40,115 million. K., before you start building. All of this is to expose the cost of the building, which, of course, can affect what we discussed before, inflation, and indicator number.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u45	A respectable president. I hereby recommend an interpretation resolution on patient payment. There is one of the priorities of the United States of America at this assembly. Besides me, transporters are cool. paritaprevir Guðjón S. Brjánsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. By permission of the president, the council agrees: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Health for Health Care for Health Care, No. 40/2007, and the maximum health insurance payment for medical care outside the medical facility should be $35,000. a year, as well as reducing the share of the elderly and disability at the expense of dentists. In an exemplary society, governments seek to equalize their terms. Such a society is far more likely to become powerful and peaceful, and one of bad manifestations is when individuals cannot afford to seek the necessary medical care. So here is a plagiarization proposal that seeks to meet it. It is especially with a more powerful service available to all, regardless of their status, location, and economic situation, that the government has the opportunity to equalize the interests of the people of the land. Then, if it is approved, an important contribution is made to promote the peace of the workforce. One factor for which unions have fought for the most is that governments promote social stability. During the last assembly, the bill of the current health minister had to be passed on to pay attention to the health - care system by validation of February 1, 2017, issue of No. 676. It discussed the medical expenses of the health care clinic to reduce the greatest payment, especially the long - suffering. The adjustment was to be financed solely by the transfer of costs to other patients. This results in a marked increase in the cost of major patient care costs, including the cost of pensioners and other vulnerable groups, which will be particularly prone to seek less necessary health care. Thus, the total cost of about 85 thousand general patients would be increased by 31%, and the total cost of 37,000 elderly and pensioners would increase by 73%, according to the bill. That bill expected patients to pay up to a maximum of 95,200 K. every year. In the treatment of the case, that was the case with the highest authority. Healthcare Ministers, although the maximum pay would not exceed 50,000 dollars. every year. Transporters of this proposal still feel that it is too much payment, as well as that the promise is not in place, since a new government is under way. Transporters believe that they should take an immediate larger step toward the condition of health - care units. The proposal requires a health minister to ensure that, first of all, the health care professional pays no more than 35 counts. K. In a year before medical care, second, that health care will be free and third, that the costs of the elderly dentist and the disability will be considerably reduced. The cost of government funds may be estimated because of these changes from what is now about 7 billion dollars. every year. A respectable president. Intimacy or noncombatant health care may be objected to the fact that it will be abused and given the opportunity to control it will be lost. Thus, if a patient is inclined to seek medical treatment and other health care, the cost of community care is very costly. Thereafter, such management is primarily directed against those who do not have medical care. Those who have enough money do not think twice before going to a doctor. However, while the proposal will eventually be accepted, the next few years will have to be better, and the cost of a patient's involvement will still be too high. Medicines, for example, remain separate from other health care services and have a specific payment system in force for them. This results in a study of the costs of patients requiring both medicinal products and other health care providers. This does not take into account the combined total cost of adults within the same family. Thus, the overall cost of household care and medicine as a result can remain very high. Finally, the cost of adult psychology is continued, with the exception of the public payment of health insurance, and the cost to many people who may be in a difficult position. It's, for example. common durations of treatment in an independent psychiatric professional range range between 12,000 and 15,000 thousand krs. So there is a great need for a growing number of psychologists who work at medical clinics throughout the country. A respectable president. Finally: This position needs to be greatly improved, with a view to equalizing people's positions and allowing everyone to seek medical treatment without causing their economic and life to be in trouble. Not only is this a matter of righteousness but it also pays off for society. Thus, there is also a practical program to be set up on how and when health - free services can become a reality. So after this discussion, I suggest that the matter be discussed. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u46	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come up here for a short time and discuss a little concierge proposal for the payment of patients from the Group of Congress, theirs. paritaprevir The godna Einarsson, the Guðjón of Brjánsson, and the Oddný of Oddsy G. Harðardóttir. This is a very good thing, and I can agree very strongly with what it says, that the maximum pay and goal of wanting to reduce the health - care cost share. This is a very good goal. The proposal suggests that the maximum pay of health care insurance for extracurricular health care should be 35 of you. K. each year, as well as reducing the share of the elderly and disability at the health of dentists. As shown by the proposal, which includes the following: ▪ During the last assembly, the bill of the then health - care minister to pay attention to the health - care system had to be passed by validation of February 1, 2017. It's February 1st, isn't it? Yeah. Sadly, yesterday we had to postpone their taking of the law. The reason, as I was referring to my case yesterday was that the Minister's Regulation arrived late and we were in a special situation in the Polish at the time. It was a fall election for the Generals. Qualifications in the matter, tips and comments were made at the highest level. A minister tried to take action that caused the matter to go on late, and health insurance needs longer time to program its systems according to the regulations and costs of the Minister's Regulation. In addition, it has been shown to improve health care as the first stop for patients in the medical system and as part of the law we had to postpone yesterday. This support is still being developed, but funding is being made to strengthen health care as the first stop. I'd like to, because I can't lead on it while it's happening, talking about the importance that when we talk about strengthening our health care facilities as the first stop we watch the whole country. The talk is very prominent in most cases about the health care of the capital area. At times, you feel that it is the only health care, somehow. Though important, we also have important health institutions in many lands. The bill tells us that the bill we delayed yesterday was expected to be up to a maximum of 95,200 k. This is shown in the report that although the maximum pay would not exceed 50,000, at the time of the case the current health minister announced that the maximum pay would not be done. a year I'll be right back. A senator had a seat, along with the highest. A president for what? The welfare committee during the last term when this matter was for material discussion on the welfare committee. I think I can claim that everyone or most of them have it. Committee members at the time were too high and were concerned about the implementation of the costs we saw to be in the system. That's when we thought it was 95,200. evere high-cost departments for those who seldom see a doctor. In a cross political reconciliation within the committee, we obtained many compromises and much conversation to bring us down to about 50 of yours. K. Would be a major step in the right direction that we were able to take by catching up with the entire committee. What a joy it was when it came to doing so! The members of the case reached that contract at the highest level. Minister to proceed. It was a step in the right direction. But we agree, and it turns out that I am reminded of a committee's list. At the time, the welfare committees felt that this was an important first step in the matter. Everybody wanted to do better. As the report also shows, it is important to work together these systems, to take larger steps almost years to ensure that the medication system and the cost we pay when we go to the doctor will be one system that keeps the patients in mind. And in time, we take more steps, as you sense the report, and that we want to go further on the patient's travel costs. Despite our desire to promote health institutions in many parts of the world, there will always be some medical services in the capital area. So we're working to increase the cost of travel to the subsidies, dentists and psychiatry services, and that, of course, could continue to be counted, those who are not under our system today. As the report shows, the cost of adult psychiatry remains the exception of the public payment of health insurance and can be very high. Thus, each treatment period in an independent psychiatric professional has been found to be in the range of 121⁄215 you. K. This is what you hear from people today. It would also be one of the biggest steps we could take in better access to health care. We are talking, for example, about helping people to function and more. I would like to mention, though, a matter that I liked during the last term, even though more is needed and even needs to be increased. A British model is trained to increase the number of psychologists in many medical institutions in many parts of the country. This I think is a step in the right direction. That psychologists go into medical institutions as part of the cross-cutting systems that have to work there. But I have to say, this has to happen faster. The model is good, and I think there's at least a step in the right direction. But in very long terms that were to be short, I have described my joy with this synonym. I look forward to it. A member of a welfare committee to handle the situation and cooperate. Councilmen will do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-01-23.u47	A respectable president. I would like to recommend an interpretation of the memory of the two-year-old son of Jón the Árnason. Transporters of this proposal are agghast. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The draft proposal has been reassigned from the last assembly, where it was submitted and recommended. In fact, it was submitted to a council in the past. I'm going to allow me to read the proposal as she reads: The General concluded to hide the minister of Education and Culture to have Jón the Son of the Árnason, the Bookkeepers, and the Museums of History remembered properly after two centuries of the birth of this great scholar in the field of cultural education. Be Jón, including By the fact that Iceland's National Library and the University of Iceland represent a far - reaching conference on his life's work. Then there will be a relief of Jón in the residence of Iceland's National Library and also the north of Skarga, near his place of birth. Such a modest monument fit Jón's memory. The cost of conferences and monuments is paid from the state fund and will be considered in budgets. In a paper with the council resolution proposal, it says: Jón Árnason, the National Bookkeeper and legend collector with more than that, was born on Hofi on Skaga Beach on August 17, 1819. He died on September 4, 1888. Rest his bones in the cemetery on South Street. Jón and his wife, Katrín, were not descendants of children who could be remembered and could be said to say that their memory was not sustained because they did not have offspring. In the mid - 19th century, Jón Árnason and Magnús Grímsson began a collection of Icelandic legends. The 19th - century ethnic awakening had even been the case. With interest in the accounts that walked by man, no one knew the author and was beginning to call legends. Many laymen and scholars throughout Europe began collecting stories, each in his own country. The most influential collection was undoubtedly a collection of German brothers, Grimm Jacobs and Wilhelms Grimmur, who published a cruel adventure during the 1812Howon. The results of the gathering of Jón the Year's Árnason and Magnús'search of the day were seen in 1852 in the book Islzk Practice. For the preeminent of President Jón Sigurðsson and the favour of Konrad Maurer, Konrad Maurer and 1864 two volumes of a museum called Jón Árnason, Islzed legends and Tashermads. The complete edition of the collection was then published in a printed form in 1954-1961. One of Europe's greatest legends in the last century, Irish scholar Séamus Ó Duilearga, said that the collection of the son of Jón the Árnason was a legend that had no place like it in the world. Regarding Jón Árnason, the nationalist of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, the 2011 Yearbook of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc., says: ▪ He is the greatest worthy and best of the bookkeepers to whom the museum has come to this point, and he would have enjoyed even more, if the museum had been better afforded in his earlier years. It is only natural for such an scholar to be remembered properly by Jón Árnason. The estimated cost of film making and installing is 2 billion. K. The estimated cost of a conference and its visitors is also 2 billion. K. Now I'm not going to fix these numbers. It's only a plan. I expect the highest. The General and Education Committee will look to this number and then to the financial committee at the time. But I believe that Jón Árnason may have been in a bad garden because in the past century, we fought for the recovery of manuscripts from Denmark, and the Árni of Magnússon was a focus of the past century. But now Iceland's University and its founder, the founder of the Year Magnússson of Icelandic studies, has started work on a project called Islzian legends and fairy tales. This project can be considered on the website Jonahnason.is. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that it was 150 years after the end of the 1st edition was released in 2014 and this project was started. It aims to map the origins of history and sources. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to sit on Saturday afternoon at the conference that was held on that project. I was very comfortable with what is being done well in this regard, and it also shows that in recent years, there have been extensive and extensive research into Icelandic legends and their relationship with European legends at the same time. There's a very important job being done here, and I believe the General should be there to support it. It's not much more important than any other cultural product, and, in fact, I'm not going to list Icelandic culture as something else. In fact, the 1862 and 1864 editions of the edition of 1852 were not very well received. At any rate, the 1862 and 1864 editions, 1954-1961, were widely read and are still read. It may be necessary and should be considered another gathering of legends, for this conference showed that the origin of the sources of Jón Árnason and Magnús Grímsson is somewhat local. However, there are legends like Ólafur Sigfús, Sigfússon, and others, Ásmundur Helgason, a farmer who lived east of the country, a farmer's hand in a sauna, who suggested a few things, so there were various games and learned, who contributed to this mission. This is just one breath from remembering this great man, the Árnason of Jón, when two centuries have passed since his birth, and I hope the Council will accept this proposal. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
