ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, environmental and resource ministers, transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u2	Madam President. The reviews of the last transport program repeatedly indicated that it was important that transnational support be given here at the General Assembly to ensure that a new council would secure its funding, in view of the urgency of the need. It was noted that from collapse, contributions to transport would have been maintained, with a minimum share of GDP, or around 1,961,3% in recent years. In recent years, transport contributions would not have followed a general rise in the economy, much less a growing tourist stream. As a result, Madam President, the same agreement was made here at the General Assembly to make large contributions for transportation. This was because the need was urgent, not for the election. The last budget was so repeated that the status of the transport program, therefore funds were added, while at the same time all of this became aware that some major solutions were launched to a new government that had not yet been created. This week at the Wavellion, it was the highest. The secretary of finance asked how a transport program was not financed. V.E.G. So a minister said that it was immoral for the General to accept a nonprofit transport strategy. I would now have thought that it was the task of a new government to follow the approved Generals rather than to say such contradictions that the General will not be able to sit quietly and quietly. It is clear to all that if this statement is the highest. Ministers remain unconvincing to the Generals, that is a serious matter. So I want to ask the highest. A minister would not want to use this seat to revise his stand and take those words back on the immorality of the legislature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I'm sorry for how upset my words have been, and especially when I hear a discussion where there may seem to be a major physical agreement on the subject, and the discussion is mostly on the subject. I hear a lot of people have been in a hot mood. I'm going to get a witness, with President's permission, for what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, who was interviewed at News Time 4 March 2017, in an article called "Aperture at 71 Day‡. He says that the transport program was clearly an empty campaign plan. He later says in the same interview: So these are outright frauds, and we are not going to take them quietly. Clearly, though this matter is a matter of the nature of the use of big words, there have been a number of factors. I think the subject we're here with is natural that we're looking at the contingency, i.e. that, shortly before the transport program was adopted, a financial program was adopted. It was approved on August 18th. On September 12, a transport program was adopted. The financial program did not allow for this transport plan, and this knew the people at that time. This is what I've been pointing at during a conversation with that media, and I didn't see it any worse than that. But at that time, it was not 71 days but 55 days, the same as the General Assembly. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u4	Madam President. Then we know that the highest. A minister finds it acceptable to call the legislature of immoral conduct. Then it's just a matter of time. It's not a question of wording, it's a very big word. The minister fell, and this is only because he feels that this is a normal language for the Generals. But that is exactly what he is represented by the same Generals. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to other words in the same interview when he said that the council was out of control because the government had not been in control at the time when the budget was approved. That same interview says the highest. Secretary of it. I'd like to ask them, is it the Minister's opinion that the government governs the General and if not the government has more to do with it, then the Council is out of control? Does this mean that the General is in charge now? And under whose authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u5	A respectable president. Again, the debate is about choice of words. Like what? A senator tells me that when I used the word out of control, I would have said without a government, because I specifically stated that I was referring to the fact that they had not been a member of a government with much more involvement in Congress. Again, a lot of words are being made, as the meaning was quite clear, and it might have been clearer to many members of the conference who would have listened to the interview at this time. I think it's important to show respect to the General. I think it's important to learn that I have not said that the Allied is immoral. Of course, something happens almost or happens. I almost drowned on my birthday. Did I drown? No. I didn't drown. [[The president calls.]] I almost crashed. Did I crash? I didn't. It's a fundamental difference, chief. President. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u6	The president's asking for a sound in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u7	A respectable president. We're doing a sound at Akureyri Airport. It's all stopped because of lack of money. One of the main reasons for the construction of the airport is the safety role of the airport. In 2010, it was of great importance that an open opening could be held out of the country when Cheflavík and Reykjavík's airport were lost because of the loss of ashes. That's where this airport played the key role. For example, it was possible to have passengers on a bus ride north of the country and pay for a ride directly onto a plane, thus keeping the country open. This operation went well. However, the lack of aircraft vessels is clearly clear to prevent action in Akureyri. Now there is only room for four full - grown passenger jets, e.g. Boeing 757 or Airbus 320 simultaneously at the Akureyri Airport. It is urgent that these reforms be continued so that acceptable space is available when the next volcano knocks on the door. In the event of an emergency, you will not be able to cover this crash with immediate action. Also, it can be noted that what further adds to the need for there to be done is the fact that there has been an enormous increase since 2010, so this calls for concern in this great security case, so I ask the minister: What will he do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. It's very important. It is quite accurate to say that there has been an enormous increase in air traffic with increasing tourist currents. About ten years ago, Iclanders fired some ten planes, they have about 30 today, we have 20 planes and 29 airlines flying passengers to and from the country this summer. Of course, this requires careful consideration of a future airport. That's right, we're wrestling here with the money we're putting on transportation and we haven't been able to expand the airports in Akureyri or other improvements at other airports to play this role. This is how a reserve is often used by airlines in Scotland, i.e. on their plans. The airport at Akureyri, it's good to be taken into account that it is difficult for airlines in general to make it require special training by pilots to fly in. Thus, it is mainly Iccelands that can use the range of a reserve airport, other communities need a special training program for their people. We need to consider these matters. There is a fast to the north, and the distance was extended to another billion a few years ago to pay for an earlier international flight. But we need to try to put these materials into use, and one of the many challenges we face in transportation is looking to these factors as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. For the past 18 years, I have had a job of talking to people, trying to understand myself, and trying to understand what my students have to say to me. I don't understand an answer. Minister, just to be said here, I admit it. But I'd like to add something to it and ask the highest possible question. Minister for Icelandic airlines who work here on international flights; are they obliged to have any emergency plans, any plannings, if such events occur as seven years ago? I'd also like to ask him to tap my answer so I can understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u10	A respectable president. Air management is a very strict set of laws and regulations regarding planning. That is true of all airlines flying to and from the country. I'm aware that Icelandi has a special emergency strategy within his door, if that is the case, that the Keflavor airport has a specific limit on the company's response to it. I'm sorry if it happened. A senator, a respectable president, did not understand my words here earlier because I think they were quite clear. This is one of the projects to take if money is available. There's 200 million going to airport this year, i.e. Outside this international field, 200 million, this is the right to survive. There are no new projects, and there is no big maintenance. It's just the situation that's really serious. There are billions of projects waiting for us all over the country. There's a lot of tunnels, if you count them together. These issues are under investigation, as the Ministry has noted. [[The president calls.]] I will do my best to try to get more money to the jury by any means possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u11	A respectable president. I'm concerned with the highest. Ministers and others identified in the media and the government are being influenced by the growing financial strength of the crown. One of the suggestions for reform in the material that came from a committee appointed by the former government was even. to eliminate the public and companies in the country. Many have said that this is the ideal time for doing so. So I ask the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs: When can I expect to be taken away from the public and businesses of the country, in accordance with a budget taken from June 2015? It can also be asked if the secret meetings at the hedge fund that did not participate in the invitation in June 2016 are truly locked up and do not cause economic instability to interfere with the process. This is not clear in the light of words. Prime Minister for last week's inquiry whether it is a sole concern in the government on whether or not to follow the decommissionation process, or now to award those interviewed at government meetings, the hedge fund that the most difficult and the most aggressive have been in opposition to the restoration of the Icelandic economy. I'm asking the highest. A minister would be able to inform us about these discussions, whether they are being offered an invitation to someone else's advantage and better than others. But the main question is: When can you expect to be decomposed by the public and companies of the country, which may include: might help you to cope with the constant supply of the Icelandic crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I can answer that. I support the plan for perfect execution. I've repeatedly declared that I wanted it to happen as soon as possible, but I've also said that I don't want it to be done under the circumstances when it causes some kind of turmoil here on the market or economic instability. I'll think about it. A senator would fully agree with me on this. He refers to a meeting held last week, which requested a meeting with the government. At that meeting there were no agreements of any kind, but the representatives of these hedge funds will have explained their point. I believe, however, that it is very important that we work at reaching out for the greatest success of our lives. I agree with the senator that there could be an important stage in achieving a balance in currency, since we see that the flutter on the crown, where it has weakened and strengthened over the last few weeks, is unacceptable to both international and export sectors. So I think it would be a success for everyone if it could happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u13	A respectable president. So I'm now using the same language as the highest language. The minister here used in the previous inquiry, that was hardly an answer. There are no clear plans for when it can become a failure to the public and to the company, but everyone agrees that this is the best opportunity and may have been in some time. So I reiterate the question of when the Minister might consider it. In the next few weeks? The next few months? And I also ask if this interaction with the hedge fund is interfering with that decision. Perhaps one question can be added: When can we expect from a minister or a government, the Supreme Court? Minister, the government's response to the success of the crown because of the group that produced one nine suggestions? Or plan to go to the highest. Minister and government somehow gonna wait, sit down on this case and hope for the best, as it seems to have many of the policies established by the government these days? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry as well as the fact that he has understood my logic in it, he believes that this has been a good answer. To answer that completely, it could be in the next few weeks or the next few months, just so I'm telling you exactly what I'm saying. I hope so. I hope we can also offer suggestions on non-profit operations. It is being prepared for, whether it will be ready next week, next week or the following week, at least this month. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has given me the opportunity to inform the United States of this world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u15	Madam President. The reactor is quoted in a fistula at the highest. Financial and economic ministers at the highest level. A minister appeared on the page of his leadership class. It says the highest. Minister on the special discussions we had on the financial system during the days, by permission of a president: I'm not sure if any senators in general realize that the state can set a law code on the banking system regardless of whether it has a share in the banks. So, I guess we're the best. If we do not have a majority government to tell us what to do, we are also a bit stupid. But let it lie in between things. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he doesn't agree with me on the opinion that a clear policy of government is desirable in the development of the banking system before banks are sold from the bank. Does it not make it easier for the State to achieve its policy when banks are in its majority interest? That's how it's gonna be, for example. It's easier to separate investment banking from business banking. It must be normal, Madam President, for the council to cross a policy on how it would like to see the future financial structure before being sold into private hands. The strategy for this important matter must be handled openly and openly. I fear that this is a repeat of the same mistakes that we made in our last personal employment when banks were to come out of state fast in the name of liberalism. It's the highest. A minister has no problem selling banks first and then setting his course and the law frame? Is it so urgent to sell the banks that they can't give time to careful policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u16	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. I want to reiterate what I said to a previous discussion about this bank case that I think it is very important that the council discuss the best way to conduct banks on this country in the future. There are conflicting issues that arise there, such as why. A senator mentioned, e.g. how to consider the relationship between investment banks and business banks. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned, for example. a portion of property in the banks, how great a lot of possession is to be owned. I can say that I share the concerns of many of them. Congress on how this could be a mistake if we did not try to sell on the bank and do not proselytize with the law in general on banking matters. I have now worked to reorganize a group of workers who have been working on a bank report. I will report that to the Council this spring. I expect the staff to complete their assignment in May. It will, in fact, be there. I have come into this very important matter. A senator mentioned. So I answer the question if there's really such a rush, I've said no, there's no need to sell the banks. I think it's better that we do this in peace. If it takes ten years to sell the banks, then it has to be. I think it's far more important for us to resolve these issues together than for humans to eat at all in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u17	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers of answers, but for the public's trust in banks to return, their owners need to show that they are worthy of trust. It's under the roof. Ministerly, in view of the fact that the hedge fund gains an Icelandic bank or a dominant share in Icelandic banks? Tells you the highest. Minister that the rules about who can get a bank in this country are good enough? Do the rules suggest that possession is clear and that it is clear who are the final owners? V.E.G. A minister here mentioned a service group according to news of state officials in the Supreme Court. Minister. I'm happy that these matters are being taken forward, but I'd like to ask the minister if he intends not to accept politicians at the table. I encourage him to do so, for when such an important policy is developed, all political parties must be involved in the case, probably including experts and stakeholders, not just government officials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u18	I thank you again. A senator for the record. To answer who are or may be the owners of banks, I have previously spoken to this chair that there should be a benefit, not just in banks, but in all companies, who are the real owners. I think it's very important that we don't have some kind of hide-and-seek about who the real owners are. I know that the bank business has also been discussed. The Economic and Business Committee and I've been there and the Ministry officials have come and introduced their views so that I agree with that, I think it's very important that politicians do the same, the job I'm having my work done now. A preliminary report will be published on the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a report produced by the group, hopefully today or tomorrow, so that everyone will be able to study it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u19	A respectable president. Great men are we, Slander, that we go out of our way here in response to a inquiry to turn the words of another senator. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister did it earlier in these discussions; he quoted my words in an interview where I was talking about their lack. Parliaments who had agreed to both the transport plan and then budget must view transport as a meaningless campaign plan. There are eleven senators. Minister to information, of which there are three top ministers. Financial and economic ministers. I'm better raised than I can call them Supreme Minister. The minister of financial matters immorally, though I heed the above words of the incident. I'd like to talk to the highest. Secretary of the budget, but still this interview, too, because it said the highest. Ministers asking for fuel charges and oil expenditures that there were no previously reserved income stocks anymore, all taxes placed in the state box. By permission of the President: It is now, in fact, that it is no longer reserved stocks, i.e. Just all the taxes go in the box and then we quarrel out. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the economy whether or not he has heard of law no. 120/2012, which says in 12. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The valuables of the road and business should be funded by markets and direct donations from the state fund. The market of income is considered a special charge for gasoline, oil charge, a mile tax, and a lighthouse tax. I wouldn't be thinking about it, top dog. Minister, to raise these charges, not by any means, simply raise them, even if only in accordance with the prices of recent years, thus ensuring additional donations for road work instead of procrastining all other forms of immorality and out - of - control?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u20	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm sorry I caused it. A senator upsets by quoting his words in this interview. I've heard of these songs. There are many layers of law that are burned just that way. You're right next door. A senator over there contradicts the law, so it's only right from the inside. A senator there needs to make some legal adjustments so that law doesn't conflict. This may be it, and I suppose, if you know what to do. A senator may not be at all at odds with this matter or the other matter he made here as a subject at the outset. The problem is when the Lawgiver's opinion or the legislation itself conflicts. That, of course, is what causes problems and misunderstandings. In this case we discussed with a transport program, this led to a lack of expectations. I think that's where we need to clean up. Thank you. A senator for pointing out this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u21	A respectable president. It's good to be a top dog. A minister is sorry to turn from the words of others but not to walk, but he continues to do so in the same talk. I wasn't calling for a legal adjustment. I was simply pointing out that a minister had been wrong. It's good to be a top dog. A minister admits that when he said that these laws were not in effect, it was wrong. On my personal notes, I would like to recommend the highest. Minister of the following: When you make mistakes, when you say something you shouldn't say, what you're wrong, you're more involved in just acknowledging it and saying "I'm sorry." It is about the advantage of public interest, which is the highest slogan. Minister should be recognized. I'd like to ask the highest part at the end. A letter for which all of the Councilmen of the North Eastern Precinct wrote a travel minister, where members of the Parliament believe that all of them as unsatisfactory as one of them are completely wiped out to Daffos Road. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the economy whether he agrees with himself when he signed this letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the future inquiry. By permission of the President, I'm going to quote myself on the committee interview, saying that it was most unfortunate that it seemed that there was a relationship between what the members of the Parliament thought they were accepting and what really happened. That's exactly what I'm saying. But I have to tell you what. A member of the Parliament that the law on government law applies when there is a violation of law. It is the law of the law that is the ultimate law on expenses and on government funds. The law is what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u23	How about a Goonie Road?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u24	I agree with myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u25	A respectable president. The planning and implementation of tourism is a complex resource abuse for obvious reasons. The work programme intervenes in many areas of society and is supported by a wide variety of natural problems. In so doing, we have to limit it to some extent. Natural things call for protection. The National Park of the Þinga can receive a set number of people a day, a month, or a year. Societyal stress due to rapid evolution calls for action. We can call it community protection. A small village, let's say Viking, gets nearly a million visitors. The economic development of tourism calls for caution and resistance so that one industry does not grow far above all others and damage the produce of the whole country. As a result of this concern for future generations, it is stated that tourism will always be sustainable - and here, policy means both objectives and paths, not just goals as much as a new government contract of a new government will be characterized. Sustainableness is composed of three aspects, natural, social, and economic aspects. Some politicians, even tourists in tourism, forget about this a lot and just focus on sustainable nature in this context. A respectable president. Now the new one has the highest power. Minister accepts the jury. Then it is important that we understand terms in the discussions of tourism reforms and review its laws as well as the shape of long - term policies. This latter point is emphasized in these special discussions. Sustainable calls for control of resource use, for tourism, as in agriculture or fishing roads. The steering wheel is about at least Three types of reactions: First, the situation needs to be discussed and determined by the limitations of the land areas and, on the end of the country, by looking to all aspects of sustainable development. The decision of tolerance is a process made by the public, specialists and local authorities and is for regular reviews. To date, almost entirely lack of a discussion of endurance has been made, and the concept is largely far from any policy. Second, access control in order to pump stress and distribute it can be done only in part by parking lots, inspires, locals or parks, as well as by no means necessary coming or leaving expenses. The reason is simple, the costs will be too low for high travel costs to the country and within the country. There is therefore only a small part of overall access control. Bankbox helps repair damage, regulate road traffic, and internally in land areas with footprints and bridges. and costs other benefits, but do not control the number of tourists or slow down the growth rate in this article. Access control is primarily in enforcing the boundaries I discussed by making a decision on the number of guests and by having enough educated people as a two-way landkeeper. Third, management and integration of many factors need to be efficient. The administrative center is a ground for consultation. She is not meant to take over the responsibility and duties of the administration system or of interests. She is directed by four busy stewards, and she will only work until 2020. What then? There should have been some elaborate preparations for the Office of Ministry during the last term and then launching it, e.g. ... intranslation. The situation in the tourism service is well considered to be a lot of people inside and outside, whether it is a travel agency or a payoffer. Criticism appears more and more frequently among its own tourists. So these matters must be settled to a reasonable degree in a short period of time. If I say here and now that the appropriate number of tourists, suitable for the majority, community, business, institutions and tourists, is 33/4 million a year, that would be a guess. Do we want to work that way and rely on vague self - control and competition? Do we still want to run into obstacles, problems, and reverse developments when the largest sector is involved because we don't maintain responsible employment in nature and community matters? Sympathetic tourism with the inhabitants of the country is hardly built on 8◯10 million tourists a year or so. We've heard that number, I'm sure it's not all of us's wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for bringing up the issue of these important issues, tolerability, sustainability and access control in natural areas. I know why. A senator has knowledge and understanding of the language group, which provides a basis for a discussion on these important matters and can, in fact, address virtually everything. A senator crossed. Iceland is the main destination that is based mainly on gravity, often on the delicate nature and culture of a small nation. During this period of growth in the Icelandic tourism industry, it is urgent to ensure the sustainable development of the article to the future, economic, natural and social. We have been successful in welcoming tourists, but the growth has not been followed quickly by infrastructure. Although the growth of tourists is likely to slow down, it is certain that even if we have kept it for a good time, the growth will likely continue. The declaration of the Government's policy highlights the sustainable use of resources and structures needed to ensure that this article will continue to evolve into harmony with nature and society. Long-term policy on sustainable tourism requires reliable and international comparative data and non-satisfactory criteria. That's why I've been talking. Is intended to include developing sustainable indicators and improving regional missing statistics. One type of research that has been funded in recent years is the tolerability study that provides a clearer picture than previously in the environmental and environmental tolerability situation. It is the pleasure of tourists with their experience in this country very much, and its inhabitants are generally positive for their tourism. Yet, there is evidence that the experience of tourists at certain popular tourist places, such as Geysi, the Þings, and the glacier, is somehow affected by the situation of footpaths, the lack of facilities, and the number of tourists. It is necessary to ensure financing of thorough investigation of these factors as a basis for further decision-making. Research should also be used to determine and plan, such as policy-making programmes for modern tourism. The destinations of tourists will be defined and organized in each part of the country in agreement with the local people and in terms of the tolerability of tourism. I expect this work as well as the national development programme for infrastructure because of the pressures of tourism employed by the Environment and Resource Minister. They should be more efficient and more efficient at tourism development. Choose which places should be built up as model with much service, thereby increasing their tolerability and location in which areas it is more desirable to limit structure for Iceland to continue to be more diverse than the more valuable groups of tourists. In popular and delicate areas, the bioavailability must be controlled, as appropriate, to protect nature and memory, to spread stress and to improve safety. Those who are responsible and who are in charge of local matters are generally best able to evaluate the extent to which this management is performed in the strength of their knowledge of local situation. Such management can be achieved by various means, such as footwear, meanings, education, increased land control, and management, such as a one - course walkway. However, I believe we need to go further in areas where there is a testing of tolerability and control the bioavailability with specific measures in agreement with local responsibilities and caregivers. It allows for the number of restrictions and/or currency. I agree with what. A senator that it is not enough to set up a form of remuneration because it can only be part of an access control system. One of the findings is to establish a system of access control similar to that of the top national parks abroad where costs are collected for use by a limited resource that enables the position to drive and earn income. In this way the companies take responsibility in the interests of sustainable goals in cooperation with the state and competitively, not in a too burdensome way. What we're discussing here and what we know, of course, is also the custody of other ministers, so I'll name it. The control of areas owned by a local partner and a private member in my mind should be as much of their custody as possible. In order for this to happen, there is a need to include to strengthen the regional musculoskeletal systems of tourism and to find ways to make more money for rural society from this article in order to obtain the necessary services. Many the parking lot is one tool in that relationship, but not enough. Such collections are already at the Parliaments and will be provided by the secretary of transportation and rural management in the near future, allowing it to live in rural areas. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of distributing tourists and lightening more densely populated areas. Among the things the government can do in this regard is to build a transportation network. The Air Development Fund, e.g. Have been formed, and recently his rules were made available to strengthen international flights, e.g. At Keflavík Airport, but then he moves on to the Akureyri Airport or Eglish Airport. V.E.G. President. The rapid growth of tourism in recent times calls for the exact urgency of the situation. A senator will draw out more carefully. Therefore, I welcome this discussion and expect her to be a good candidate for the current job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u27	A respectable president. To me, it is clear that access control is necessary. That's why I'd like to give some arguments. For nature's sake, first of all. We need to protect her from trouble where he wants to become too much. Second, we need to consider the safety of tourists. Third, we need to use the access control for economic reasons. Whatever it's called, we've got to get on the tax system or pay money from tourists at some point of view. We must speed up national infrastructure to equalize all the negative effects as well as the positive effects of a huge number of tourists on the Icelandic economy. We must do this even by saying goodbye to the most sensitive places, like the dog. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in. I'd like to encourage the Minister to do good, and I'd like to encourage the Minister to act quickly. You see, the minister's predecessor drew his feet a little on these matters, and the entire government, the last one who sat here. It is a shame what happened to those courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u28	A respectable president. There is no doubt a somewhat specific statement about the free movement of people, foreign tourists, about our country. But we all know what's meant here. According to a new report introduced this morning by Iceland Bank, it is predicted that some 2.3 million tourists will arrive in the country this year. There's a 30% increase from last year. If the projections become reality, there is a peak increase in one year, or an increase in about 530 of your time. ... aman. According to this, the next summer will be one in five foreign tourists. A person's reaction to this project is somehow very positive, but it's also a significant fear - inspiring news or vision that needs to be dealt with. Travel services in Iceland have established a place as one of our main and most valuable professions. Like other of our main sectors, it is based on the nation's natural resources, their living generations, and those who come after us. We need to be careful when we face the challenges of building these sectors even more in harmony with people and nature. The access control is important, but that explanation, as we have seen, includes so many; the structure of transport systems, the diversity of cultural services, etc. We know the tourists who come here are interested in our nature. But they also come because of our culture, are interested in our food and history of our nation. In all of these, however, we are involved in information sharing for tourists and infrastructure. In the management of tourism, tasks that contribute to the coordination of the article are being carried out. The list is long and long enough, but I mention the special distribution of tourists all over the country and then the wise currency, for example. parking fees. It is of utmost importance to all of us that mapping and following the implementation of these projects will be high on the government list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u29	A respectable president. I thank the advisor and Minister for starting this very important discussion. All of us agree that something must be done. Of course, this is very important, and we candidates certainly agree with a proverb in that sustainability must be based on these three underlying factors; the environment, social factors, and economics. In view of this, it is also appropriate to remember that Iceland is large, and although there are more than 2 million tourists coming to the country, the country is very divided. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister. Now it was presented in the talk of the highest. Minister, and she agreed with a advocate, that there could be places where payback cannot be controlled, not merely. How, though, is the government to be controlled? What will the minister intend to do in this regard? Is it true that there are differences in arrivals between Eglish, Akureyri, and Cheflavík, at different times in an effort to encourage people to come to the country when there are fewer? Is the idea of using parking fees, and then how, what definitions exist? There must also be a purpose, it must be compatible. When, in fact, does a general, real policy conference come about how we receive 2 million tourists and how we can use the whole country to provide this sustainable basis, including economic, social, in other places than we know today, and we know that there are environmental problems in a unique place? Things have changed. Since the Independence Party has been with this party for almost four years, it may be time to learn what the Independence Party's policy is in, to analyze the problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u30	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the advocate of an interesting friendship on the endurance of nature and tourism. This was an interesting discourse he had at the outset. I agree with him in many ways. I'd like to enter a circle of friends over the limits of nature's endurance. Aside from my opinion that here the state is running out of control in the tourism industry, the airlines are running a supply and demand, which greatly affects our infrastructure, housing market, and many more that we somehow cannot control, I would like to introduce ourselves to so many important questions in the near future, and we need to make important decisions. I'd like to take as an example three-knog that is now in an organization where we have to decide whether we're going to intervene and let more tourists into that gig and what our viewpoints are. I'd like to hear from what I hear. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson whatever his opinion on that unique cave, whether we should have the arrangement as it is today, and let it go and keep it completely in its state or whether we should do it a little bit so that it will be almost like the next Blue Laon, there will be a lot of things going to happen. We are faced with the decision to move on to make the way for tourists to this crate. There is even something in the air. It would be interesting to hear his opinion of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u31	Madam President. Here's where we'll discuss access control to tourist stations. When that discussion is heard, I cannot help but think of my aunt and her husband who lived in a nice house west of town. There were two rooms in the house that could never be entered, there were the master room and the better living room. There's just no one afraid to go unannounced. The master room was never used, not even by the father of the household, and the better room was let on Christmas Eve and even on Christmas Day. Yet, they were among the most beautiful rooms in the entire house. The reason we're discussing here access control is including Because here comes an enormous number of tourists, but also because we have not been fortunate in attracting tourists all over the country. You see, every year about two million tourists trod through the same narrow gate, knowing that this will result in overexhaustion of the country's territory, while a large portion of the land is being malused. When the trouble is clear, what do we do? Yes, we improve and build on exactly the same spot and then stir something in the surroundings of these places. To be honest, I'm surprised that not long ago the struggle to open more airports into the country and other environmental organizations has been involved. Of course, it's joyous, like the highest. The minister came in, that we've begun to wonder about these things, including... with the creation of Air Development Fund and the conscious awakening of tourism. You see, we have glorious pearls all over the country, from the Horn Coast to Hallorm's place and from the gurney to Whites. We need to open this magical world for tourists. It's an efficient rural policy. Especially is the unsolved economy of the country's settlements. Then, in my second talk, I'm going to come in to me just how to build this thing up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u32	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the Prime Minister for the initiative and the highest. Minister for the participation. I'm happy with a number of things that came out there. I think the big problem is, as many have come in, that there has been a total lack of government policy on these issues. I think searching is that a industry that has called as strong as it will be for good policy and has tourism. Many questions need to be answered. What projects will be made for the government community of Istavia when it comes to the terminal? Where are we going to make a place to fly so many into the country? How will we direct it? Will we? If possible, how should we arrange these matters for distribution? It's both time and region. There are some causes here. Councilmen and the highest. Minister entering the parking lot, which is good. I remind you, though, parking fees are services. They are not really allowed to do anything but depend on the cost of providing that service, in this case the parking lot. So parking costs are not the answer to more revenues in the state fund of travel. And in general, I've thought the discussion was such that we've been turning it upside down. It is as if we are unable to perform anything in the tourism service any other than having assigned it to a special farm. That the marked crowns came into the Kingdom box, almost a dime in return, before we're ready to let them out again to build up territory and then secure a landing. I think we need to start watching that each tourist returns to a national level of more than 200 of yours. K. It is our duty to add to the defense, such as the highest. A minister came in here, joyful, building up. [[The president calls.]] We are not to wait for income to be set aside but to make use of the resources we already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u33	A respectable president. It is not the first time during this assembly that tourism is being discussed in a special discussion. In recent years, what is being done in tourism is always considered a special problem, but I now view it as a project. I don't think any industry in Iceland is as self-provable as a tourist service. Calling for official or government policies I think it's quite difficult that this article will always be spontaneous, first of all, from the consumers who come along, and it has to be handled. While sustainability may be maintained in this article, we need to be prepared, and always reacting to some source of income - there will be no income for a government fund of nothing. Travel probably yields 80 billion of the so - called tax evasion, as it is now thought. In this export work, there are probably about 30 billion that would not be available in the event of a freight export. You have to watch this because the passengers come here voluntarily. They will not be directed. On the other hand, they can buy the spontaneous service available, and they certainly need to be rewarded. In 2001, visitors in Iceland were predicted to be about One million in 2016. An 8% increase was then calculated, but an 8% increase was achieved by a 12% increase, resulting in 1,800 thousand tourists. It's not a problem to tax that service, such as. hosting services, that is a price people know in every country. A respectable president. This conversation form is very tight. My time is up. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u34	A respectable president. Travelers in Iceland differ in size, indiscriminate, and indiscriminate. No single solution is available everywhere, but we should be able to agree on a set of criteria. Pirata's policy on travel is clear. We want a long - term plan on organization and structure that highlights the self - determination rights of the surrounding community. We focus on the success of tourists, that the benefits of tourism spread to the community and are useful in nature protection. Tourism, guidance, and environmental protection are emphasised. Pirantics believe that hosting costs are the preferred way to income and that they flow directly to rural society. However, this situation is now a major challenge in the development of tourism because of access to security, natural environment and the potential for return to natural environment. But to spread stress, there are other possibilities. We can also present less well - known natural spheres, rescue teams need additional support, and then natural bulbs are generally owned by all the people of the country, at least by the vicinity of the community. Most important, we need to ensure the public rights, that civil justice is acceptable, and that public transportation between urban areas is acceptable. That's extremely important. You see, not only are we talking about our land but we are talking about the land of our children, the soil of our children and grandchildren. Our people on this earth count about six minutes, and we in here will not be able to live a quarter of a second in the global calendar, as Carl Sagan set it up in Cosmos. We are short - lived observers in a geologic context, but we have also managed to shape our environment for our own needs. However, we need to consider whether we will make irreversible changes for the next generation or the earth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u35	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the advocate of this latecomer, as shown by special discussions related to this topic during the past month. It is important to note that a special travel office has been established, since five people will concentrate on the litigation. Now that the jury has been on the part of the Independence Party for over five years, it is reasonable to call for action and action, urgent action, including action. that we do not walk too close to our delicate land. In Iceland, as many have been reported, visitors have grown dramatically, even showing that Iceland is being sold out. I don't think so, because even though we're exposed to our fine tourist downtown in Reykjavík and they're filling up hotels and accommodations in certain parts of the country, they're not very busy all over the country. This new economic system needs to strengthen more communities than it is now. The network needs to be targeted and self-sustained. So I would like to direct a few questions to a minister: Does a minister think that he would be tempted to charge tourists in many places? What do you say we lay down a lot of cars and charge? How does a minister take part in the development and distribution of tourists? Then there is also the big question: Do we really want more tourists? Compared with other nations, we should be able to do so. But do we? If they're gonna make it through the country, we need to improve the road system. We're not doing so well right now. Travellers tell us that the increase in income last year above the previous year is about 20 billion. Can we use it directly into the pack for road repairs, e.g.? What effect does a minister have on the distribution of tourists through the country? Iceland must be a country we want to live in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u36	Madam President. I disagree. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason to be a self-provoked article that is not to be subject to anyone, in fact, no policy. In a world that grows more and more uniform, the small and special becomes more precious, and it is our speciality. We have examples around the world where in a few decades an ambitious mass sensation has changed from a nice dream to a nightmare. We can actually wake up anywhere in the world, and we don't know where we are. We walk down, and it's the same breakfast, the same palm trees, the same blankets, the doormen are identically dressed. We go out and these are fast food chains, it's completely asymptomatic. If we weren't carrying the cargo in our pocket, we didn't really know where the world was. We have an opportunity if we do not become the victim of this flatness, if we pay more attention and build on our unique position. It requires that the government establish a quality, permanence, and concern for nature and standards. We can learn much from many nations, amazing but true, e.g. Norwegians who have built up an amazing tourist network along the west coast, which is the very quality that they have built. The cost is high, and it is natural for tourists to pay in part the cost. We need to make peace with farms, and money needs to be spent in some way in the countryside, which can build up these infrastructures and attract tourists. Of course, we need access control in individual areas, but I think that will always be different, depending on each situation. But for God's sake, let's build this business with long-term interests, not short-term reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers and the good news, but I'm afraid we're having a short discussion. It's about a change of tone at the highest level. A travel minister compared to an interview in the News magazine the other day. There, she talked primarily about the parking lot as a driver's license, but now she's opened up some of the boundaries and other things, and that's really good. I have been very clearly discussing Italian numbers in many areas. I believe it will automatically contribute to the spread of tourists in the country, but it also helps to build up in new places. Increased studies are no longer critical. We have quite a few of them, they're long-term projects, but we need immediate action. We do not have to wait for further testing. The blessing is set up in valleys, I declare it, in the inhabitants of some places, and among those who travel. One of the causes is heavy slavery to communities and nature, and I claim that far too many lands have become affected by land damage. Of course, in terms of financing, the parking lot is just a drop in the ocean. It's a service fee. We're talking about redundant charges, 2,000 bucks. a charge on each head would give us 4How5 billion! There are also additional fees, including inns, that need to be the proportion of inns per capita. We're talking about possible changes in the value tax, direct contributions from the government, and other means of entrance. You're absolutely right. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned the public rights during the interview in the paper, talking about taking restrictions on the availability of individuals to the general population. We haven't talked about it yet. She did not come to the ministry of tourism, which I believe is urgent, nor did she review law in the tourism service I mentioned, as not but are urgent. [[The president calls.]] As to the trident, the right to create a small tunnel to the side into the crate, allowing it to be enjoyed by far more than at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u38	Madam President. Of course, two minutes are far too short. I hope I don't talk too fast. The national programme under the Environment and Resource Minister is, of course, a relatively new document. There the responsibility is to clarify, who is responsible for building wood at tourist locations in general. The tourist market fund has become too complex. I'm working on a bill that I can't wait to bring into the council where there's a change in role so that every project in the territory owned by the State will be subject to the national programme. The tourist market fund is then for individuals, rural areas, and smaller projects. Since 2011, we have started 2 billion, a total of 3 billion, but 1 billion have not been able to go out. When it comes to the fact that nothing has been done, I don't feel that it's right, even though I don't belittle everything that needs to be done. There's still been a lot of structure. It's about to start working at the Ministry of Economic Affairs for Special Opportunities, which requires that those who work on our limited resource pay for that price. I like it very much. That was the first thing I mentioned when I came into my office. It turns to sustainability and control, that those who make up a limited resource pay for it. That way we can also secure the public rights. I agree with what. Senator, it's very important to hold onto him. I'm sure, however, that we can find ways to achieve these goals at the same time that we who want to enter natural spheres can do so. I suppose, though, that people pay to park in parking lots, dive, get guidance on the area, or whatever it is. The guide must be quite clear, positive, of tourists, to ensure the protection, the quality of the country's image. We have clear policy options and must not belittle them. A big picture, though, is missing the long - term policy we are trying to work at the same time that we are accepting. That's why we're chasing our tails. I also feel that it is important that we have done this well. Iceland has received nearly 2 million tourists with high regard. Even if much is not done, this should not belittle what is done. I've been talking about the distribution of tourists from day one, how important it is, and how it's self-provable and sustainable development, and all worked with the rural communities. [[The president calls.]] The parking bills aren't all I've mentioned. It's your patents, too. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of tools, and I wish I could talk longer. I'll ask someone to bring a report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u39	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a change in the social law, private partnership laws and the laws of auto-recreation institutions that operate on the deck. 329, No. 237. This is a main policy to discuss simple business activities, increased efficiency, less writing, and simpler contact with government officials as the cost is maintained. The Ministry has been working in cooperation with the head of the company to review your social legislation in order to simplify the work of the economy, but the suggestions in this bill depend on the simple rule of your partner and private partner. The bill also responds to comments from the EFTA Monitoring Centre on Farming and Residents, Directors, Directorates and branch managers of a partner, private partner and pro-employees. The bill then suggests minor changes in the social and private law that contributes to the halting of society abuse. Together, the changes presented in the bill are three. First of all, changes are provided to simplify the legal environment of your partner and private partner. In the current law, it is conditioned that most of the stockholders of a community should have domesticity in this country or half the stockholders are equal. The Basis does not apply to the citizens of the EEA, the Member States of EFTA stock agreement and the Offeys, if they live in the countries mentioned above. Other than the above, ministers need chiefs. Such provisions are generally granted, but in addition foreign individuals and legislators, regardless of their estate or household accounts, may be purchased into associates that have already been formed. It is suggested that members of the Community and Pension Funds can establish a central and private partner society without the need for the rights of ministers. It is also requested in general, but it can be purchased by the above members by partners who have already been formed. It is suggested that the continuation of a partner file should be completed in a few cases from two weeks to four weeks. This is how the deadline is moved in accordance with the general time deadline for registration and notification, but the rules for registration are set up in partner and private law. The proposal for a change in the terms of reporting on the establishment of the foreign branch and private components is made and the data to follow such an announcement. Second, the bill presents changes to the conditions of the management bodies, the manager and branch office manager of the partner, the private partner and the auto-employers so that the farm conditions are not valid for EEA citizens, the Member States of the EFTA and the Faeroe Islands, no matter where they live in the world, as well as for individuals living in the above countries. The change responds to the comments of the EFTA monitoring centre that the conditions for the residence and household of founders, managers and managers and branch managers of the partner, private partner and auto-employers are not consistent with the EEA contract. Third, minor changes in the social and private law are proposed as participation factors in preventing the misuse of society. It is important to be moderate in looking for ways to improve, and the action that will be undertaken is well considered. The changes must not be too burdensome for the job or to stop the pioneers and innovations from working. A change in the annual balance laws has been approved, including it is aimed at ensuring that parts and private partnerships will provide annual accounts for official publication. The changes are expected to result in better information about the business at any given time. The changes proposed here in addition to the changes proposed to the annual accounts set out in order to stem the misuse of the Society's forms and, on the other hand, to better determine the scope of the problem. These changes are as follows: It is suggested that partial funds can no longer be paid to the establishment of a partner and private society, requiring a requirement for the founding of the society. Even though this is not a common practice, it is proper to suggest a controversial change, including the following: as part of making sure that parts of the money or valuables truly come into a community with its institution. It is suggested that the loss of the head of a part of society or of a private community fit in the management board, and the managers appropriate for their work, they should inform their partner list. As part of the partner registry, the Constitution of directors and managers has lost their privileges in the administration or to fill the manager's session. The change is submitted according to the implementation. It is suggested that the registration of the directors and the executives remain unchanged in a partner file after the Court has decided that the company's farm will be replaced. If this bill is legal, it will simplify certain aspects of the institution, operations and registration of partner and private partner. The changes affect the communication between the employment and innovation of the Ministry and the corporate records with the founders and authorities of such organizations, but it is not expected to affect the Ministry or the Agency's administration or any business. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it is not expected to result in additional expenses for government funds. V.E.G. President. I believe this is an important bill here aimed at simplifying the legal environment of your partner and private partner and meeting the observations of the EFTA monitoring centre because of the conditions of residence and residence, as previously traced. At the same time, the bill suggests minor changes in the social laws and laws on private partnerships that contribute to the halting of society's abuse. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Economic and business committees for discussion and treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u40	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in weapons law, No. 16/1998. The bill was previously submitted to the 145th legislature but was not completed, and it is now submitted to a new materially unchanged state. This bill provides specific changes in the use of arms laws to introduce the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 98/2013 on the market and on the use of supernovas for explosives. The above regulations have been adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 269/2014 of change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention, May 2, 1992. The EFTA agency appointed the Icelandic government at its time to its final session on May 2. to implement the above regulations. This was not done and by a policy dated November 16th. The EFTA Commission appealed to Iceland on the basis of 2 mg. 31. The EFTA Treaty on the establishment of a surveillance centre and a court. In this policy, EFTA, ESA, requested that Iceland have not met its obligation by not implementing the national regulation to which this process takes place. Iceland has issued its plea to the EFTA Court and is awaiting a hearing with the court. The bill here at the General Assembly is issued under ban on home-made bombs. It is then suggested that explosives for explosive use be specified in weapons laws and that a minister be authorized to state in the Regulation what premedication should be subject to the restrictions and the privileges to be reported. Furthermore, it is suggested that a minister be authorized by the Regulation that all enterprises with certain explosives should be recorded and provided with instructions on what is considered to be a suspicious business. The Council and Council No. 98/2013 of the marketing and use of explosives is the result of the European Commission on explosives for explosives, but in 2008 the Committee identified many substances that can be abused for terrorist attacks. This Regulation establishes a standard of bioavailability, marketing, management and use of precursors but the purpose of the programme is to limit public access to certain materials listed in addition to the Regulation and to try to ensure the safety of the public. The rules include restrictions on the use of the materials, registration criteria, notification and monitoring due to them. In this Council and Council Regulation, the materials are divided into two categories. One substance that is prohibited from selling to citizens except under certain strengths mentioned in Article I of Regulation. There are seven of these materials, which include e.g. the substance hydrogen peroxide, which is one of the elements in a particular bomb thought to have been used in the terrorist attack in Brussels in March. However, in case of any suspicious trade, it is only reported. There are eight of these substances and are listed in II. An Annex to the Regulation. It contains, for example, To find the substance aceon, which is also necessary to produce the bomb I mentioned earlier. It also contains ammonium citrate, one of the elements of explosives called ANFO, which was for example. used in Norway in 2011 and Oklahoma, U.S.A., 1995. The products listed in the discussion of this Regulation may change. In this way, the strengths of the listed substances may be altered or taken out of the list or other substances that can be added to a list. As a result, in addition to the changes proposed here for arms laws, the Regulation will be implemented into the main policy by a Regulation that will be supported by arms law, No. 16/1998, as these legislations are expected to change, this bill will be the law. Then I'm just going to go back to the main points involved in the subject and focus on this specific bill now available for the General Assembly. First, it is suggested that it be included in the regulation of any substance and mixture that can be abused for the illicit production of explosives, according to the law. Clearly, many materials can be used for explosives. Many are in general use, such as fuel, food, and so on. Therefore, the definition of the individual precursors was considered appropriate for I. and II. Annex to the Regulation mentioned earlier, Council Regulation and Council Regulation. At that time, the number of substances with the limitations of the environment may increase, their strengths may change, and so on. Therefore, it is essential that this list be changed quickly. Second, the Regulation forbids home-made bomb production. It is recommended that the land be prohibited from creating, preserving, carrying, selling, moving, or moving out of the country ready for bombs. Although the law is intended to contain bombs intended for terrorism, the law will also cover other bombs, such as a pipe bomb, which, unfortunately, are examples of land mines that have caused loss of both body and property. Third, it is suggested in arms laws that citizens will be forbidden to keep explosives at higher concentrations than those required by the regulations. However, a minister could issue this ban on certain materials, and this would be done by the regulations. It is then suggested that a minister be in charge of the decision that all transactions should be recorded with a premeditation. Fourth, it is suggested that the obliged person who produces, imports, moves out, or shops with a premeditation to report suspicious trades. The bill has instructions on when business can be suspicious, and I refer it to the bill on it. Fifth, it is suggested that the secretary's permission be made up of the regulations in which the premeditation under the law should be recorded and how to handle the registry. It should be noted in the law what information should be recorded for such a business, how long the registry should be saved, and other basics. Most companies already have a registration system so that, if it becomes part of a registration, it should not be very uncomfortable for companies and businessmen. However, these lists may need to be separated from other business files so that information can be provided from the records to the police or toll manager and/or given access to these official sources. With the announcement of the suspicious trade mentioned above, as well as the registrational obligation, personal information is required to be passed and published to a third party in case of suspicious trades. In other words, business that is suspicious will be required to be registered and reported to the authorities. The registry and the publication include a reduction in basic rights to privacy and rights for the protection of personal information. The same is true if the secretary decides by Regulation to adopt a registration system. In the bill it is assumed that the fundamental rights to protect personal information are protected appropriately when individual information is removed from the application of the laws and regulations that may be established. The Law on Personal Protection and the Treatment of Personal Information, No. 77/2000, as well as the European Parliament and Council Directive in October 1995 for the protection of individuals in connection with the processing of personal data and the free sharing of such information in the preparation of this bill, particularly the processing of personal information in connection with business registration and reporting of suspicious business. General data protection guidelines regarding the minimisation of data, wastefulness, mean and essential limitation, as well as the requirement to show proper respect for the registered party's right to bioavailability, correction and, above all, for the destruction of information. Sixth, it is suggested that a minister be able to by the regulation on the element of explosives, including explosives. The types of nomines included are reserved for notification, registration requirements, reference thresholds, and so on. As noted, the bill includes guidelines that affect the public interest and safety profile. It may be concluded that the government will get them a means to increase the security of society if it becomes the law of the bill. A respectable president. Now, I've tore up key elements of the bill so that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to the General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u41	A respectable president. The minister considered only the names of some of the chemicals listed here to put on a list, mentioning hydrogen peroxide and aceton, both of which can be used by explosives but also have considerably more legitimate uses, e.g. with chemical reactions in the scientific labs and in mild mixtures, hydrogen peroxide can be used to achieve as much light as the fine minister, for us who do not have that hair color. That's why I would like to ask if there was any problem with the idea that the bill suggests that the criteria are a public citizen, a concept I can't see better than being a new law. If we look at a common term that's common to me, it's even too narrow, because that's where we're talking about all the more people. Would that mean that farmers would need special permission to shop for these products or scientists or beauty salons or what they are? I even think it's the wrong induction of the type, because it's defined as this, by the permission of a president: ▪ Each person who has a business to do otherwise than because of his job, business, or profession. There are groups of people who have legitimate demands on these materials and are not put under the same strict observation as the one defined as a common citizen in the type. I ask the minister if it would either have to be defined more clearly or in some other way that this does not mean that only those who are not classified as citizens, regardless of who are now, may buy these materials without supervision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u42	A respectable president. Yes, I can totally agree that the concept of a public citizen may be somewhat unusual in law in a country that doesn't have an army. The term general citizen is used precisely to separate citizens from e.g. those who care for military responsibilities at some time. It is quite correct, too, that there may be a basis for putting this out further in the way that it does. A senator read up here and witnessed to the decree. I encourage the committee to examine it in particular. Some of these materials are still in the homes of even small amounts, but they are, of course, well specified in the bill and assumed that these are the differences between those who buy them in small amounts and in large quantities. And it is true that those who are engaged in a particular business, such as. Farmers, may need an exception from a ban on the purchase of materials. This is expected to be done either in a general way, e.g. in a Regulation that will then be opening up in this, and the bill is essential for a minister to set up a Regulation with a general requirements or, if so, in certain cases. But I encourage the committee to examine this specifically, whether there is reason to define better, rather narrow the concept of citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u43	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer, and I would like to ask in one more detail. There's a set new surveillance sector here. Certain roles are referred to by people who are shoppers; to evaluate what constitutes suspicious trade; to present indications of this. I'd like to ask you if we have any precedents for that sort of thing, making storekeepers, extension of the executives. As for me, I would like to ask them that these chemical cops, whose business is to work in stores, their duty is to report the suspicious business, whatever their definitions, are obliged to report it to the governor, tollman, or any other national contact. I think it's pretty vague. Would it not be simpler to select one for that particular government agency and establish it? I think the police are in a direct position. Another national contact, without any definition, might now be anyone and ask if the minister would be able to get a tip from the feds in BYKO and Oil or what it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u44	A respectable president. So I'm answering the last question that was directed to me, so it may be that people had in mind the various local sheriff's office, but I can also say that it may be normal to squeeze it further so that there's also some equality to each announcement, that there are all announcements in the same direction. We're sure we'll take a look at it. In terms of privateisation, those dealing with these materials are expected to put in force a regulation, and the bill also provides specific factors that provide guidance on what may be considered suspicious purchases, suspicious purchases of materials. But we have examples of privates being assigned to observe and report possible offenses. Then I think of all financial institutions that are to be informed about money laundering in accordance with certain rules. Of course, it is up to a clear rule as to what is considered to be a suspicious transfer device and a business with money. You might say it's a similar comparison. It is important in this context that the rules are quite clear so that they do not get out of the way in this regard. This, however, has been highly necessary in order to reduce the risk of being any in the Western world of the superpowers of unfathomables for a different purpose. Sadly, we are faced with only some challenge. That's what makes this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u45	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the foreign law, No. 80/2016, of January 1st. The bill suggests two changes, with the objective of clarifying the contents of the law, on the other hand, the continuation of the rightfulness of the decision made by the Foreign Institute for Human Rights in the case of unfounded applications for international protection and, on the other hand, on the basis of marriage or marriage. The bill does not include changes in material or the purpose of existing laws. The primary objective is to eliminate uncertainty that has been identified as an explanation of Article 35. and 70th, respectively. The law. The bill includes the following: There is no doubt that the legal action of the National Institute for international protection should be decided that the applicant should leave the country in the cases where the Agency has clearly evaluated his or her application and the applicant comes from a state in the list of secure countries. At the same time, uncertainty is eliminated by limits of 1 and 2 mg. Thirty-five. The law. The law of 3 mg is then canceled. Thirty-five. that a minister may in a judicial capacity recommend the judicial hearing of the non-sponsored noncommunications committee for the continuation of the proper effect, as it is unnecessary and merely a failure to create a measure of justice. Then that condition is taken away from the 70th grade. that marriage needs generally a year or more in order to become a basis for the granting of a reimbursement. This is a change to a new outlook, for it was not the will of the council to meet the requirements for family unity in the case of marriage and is therefore corrected. In effect, printing error is being corrected, or the setting up, of the 70th stanza wording. Last year, application for international protection was tripled in this country, with a large proportion of candidates showing unfounded applications. More than 99% of the dissociation rate is in the most relevant candidates at both administrative points here on the country as well as on the whole of Europe. As has been observed repeatedly, the number of people who arrived in the country last year has been unprecedented, with citizens of countries without war or civil war and with members having freedom of movement to the land as well as throughout Europe. Therefore, it is imperative that the General take a clear view that the emergency systems of refugees are not new for this purpose. This adjustment is an important factor in government action to counteract the number of unfounded applications so far and speed up their case. The agreed continuation of corrective effects was adopted last autumn and extended to three months at the end of the year and will be extended on April 1. Therefore, it is suggested that the requirement be given in 2017, that the government's urgent task is to ensure the speed of court treatments and counter the increase in the number of unfounded applications, and that candidates who prove to be involved in such applications are quickly and definitely returned to the home state. To this end, I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to the General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u46	A respectable president. 2.g. The bill is now an old ghost and has appeared before the council several times. I think so, at the highest. A minister can correct me, that in the time of the Ólöf Nordal, there was some plan to advertise in these countries, Macedonia and Albania, which are considered a secure state, and to correct certain misunderstandings or certain swamps about access to international protection here. I suppose it's been the norm and Danir that way. I understood that the Ministry of State, probably in cooperation with the State Department, was considering that we would not always need to be renewing these laws, since there is often a reason why people from Macedonia and Albania come to the country to apply for international protection, legitimate reason. In these countries, there are some. blood transfusion still for the people. It is not without reason that certain individuals come to the country for protection. However, it seems that there is a measure of access to Iceland and international protection to be corrected. I would like to ask you if there is any plan to try to advertise either in the media or to bring it into the discussion so that we are not making this law over and over and over again, because this law was meant to be only temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, who also gives me an opportunity to correct what was presented in my case. I'm hanging in the speech a little, maybe a little bit. A senator noticed it because I had been wrong about it. In this regard, we have made two provisions - just as the bill suggests that this law will not be timeless. That is not to say that even one of the temporary, temporary, but temporary, provisional measures are being made. As to the question about our potential to advertise in these countries, it is true that, in part, it was shown in counterargument. In fact, a senator's problem with these matters comes from a very limited number of people. It's just that he's from Macedonia and Albania. So it's Macedonia-Albanes who have sought here with unfounded applications. We at the Ministry of Justice have not been working on it in any way to advertise the legal arrangements here in Iceland. On the other hand, we feel that this law, that if we don't charge justice, will produce the results we want, and may be showing off today, which is limiting and decreasing, and will continue to completely eliminate unfounded takeoffs. It is of great importance that the above law is clear, and it is clear to humans that what they are going to do when they come here with unfounded shelters. That's exactly why this bill is so important. Then we are in a position to put the candidates back quickly and safely as soon as the Foreign Institute has denied a request for the heel.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I want to know what they think. The Minister of Justice is to do so, e.g. to advertise, to inform the public in these countries about the situation in Iceland. As mentioned in my previous answer, some of the applications are not useful. There's a reason for certain parties to come to this country. I expect them to be treated appropriately, and their language is taken as credible, as such. People who have fled to this country because of blood clotting or political persecution in these lands. I ask, is it really not a more just solution to advertise, to simplify in a certain way, and to the highest? Minister of Justice does not have to promote the use of the State Department on this matter. That shouldn't cost much. That should be a relatively simple procedure. I know that the Ministry of State has previously had to correct misunderstandings, certain swamps that have walked through circumstances in Iceland and the availability of foreign citizens into Icelandic welfare systems and so forth. So I ask if there is any basis for this now, because this law was meant to be temporary. I'm sorry to see that the ministry's will is now taking place and doing untimely. I wanted to know if there were any other solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u49	A respectable president. In my opinion, it would be just a positive step to make the provision, not temporary, but temporary. Of course, the temporary possession of such laws also creates vast inequities for those who apply here for refuge and who are truly under the law. It would be a great step to make this law untimely, hence the rules here clear. We then send out a message that it is not available to bring unfounded applications and stay here while waiting for a release at the vascular level. As for advertising or other markets in Iceland, people have wondered about it. State Department and Internal Affairs, too. Of course, there are pros and cons that can include advertising the situation here. It can also have the opposite effect by drawing attention to the circumstances above. But this is something that might be considered well. I've been dealing with government officials myself, e.g. and in Macedonia, the ambassador of Macedonia, The authorities in these countries are very interested in paying attention and trying to identify the reasons for their country's arrival in Iceland. They want information about how we respond. There is something we do that creeps into people from these countries, especially in other lands. In my conversations with the Macedonians, I have emphasized that there may be a basis for them too to inform and participate with us to introduce the situation here on the land. Of course, when it comes to special advertisements, it is a later matter. But I have high hopes of this remedy when it has become untimely, that the rules here will be clear to all the inmates when they come here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u50	Madam President. Although both are in the same law, we actually discuss two family cases. First, I'm going to step aside a few words to the latter part of the bill, which the minister correctly mentioned correction on printing error, since it was by no means the Lawgiver's will to impose the rights of foreigners with new foreigners. So it is good for this error to be corrected and eliminated from the law. However, we may stop at the project for the last few weeks because the situation is that a number of couples have been involved in the fact that a foreign agency has taken this print error and interpreted it according to the words as narrow as possible and not in the interests of a foreigner. So people who have been living for a year and only married for only a month have not been in contact for 13 months, which would have allowed the foreign partner to stay as much as the lawgiver's will, but chose the Foreign Institute to interpret it so that she could choose either the period of separation or the marriage period, including this couple who had been in touch for 13 months in the books of the Foreign Institutes, were only married for a month, so half of which could be referred to as a couple from abroad. This is a project I think the Ministry might dig a little. You might find out how many couples this has touched. They may be put first in their case because we are not just correcting the printing error; rather, we are correcting the fact that a public agency treats these people in a bad way. These people should snap in as if this print error has not occurred. It's supposed to happen right away and knock it out of the law. Then, to the other end of the bill, which turns toward dismissing candidates from the country in spite of a lawsuit procedure, i.e. that these treatments are not eliminated. In a good system, it should never be a question. In a good system, we should be able to work fast enough to make sure that every person who is applying for land or shelter or what it is to get into this country gets its full business in a quick and safe way so that those who receive a demonstration of their applications get it quickly and in a fair way so that they don't get a stick of what is such a beautiful unscrupulous application, a stick that again makes you wonder whether institutions might be able to work too quickly. We all know of our assignments that if the pile in front of us seems insurmountable, we are prone to cut us short. In these delicate matters, and I tell the sensitive, although there may be some unfounded applications in between, there are non-profit applications, both for the individuals behind them and for the state that are responsible for providing adequate payment and shelter. We must never cancel the demands of a righteous trial. I generally put a question mark on the idea of a secure state list because that's where we're going -- so we just use the words in the law in 29. Sent, by permission of the President: Since individuals in general are not at risk of persecution or serious violations of human rights, it is a state of security. In general, there are no dangers - under which most countries may fall. In general, people are not at risk of being persecuted or subjected to serious human rights violations. However, each application and individual case must be considered specifically. In this way, for example, for a recent example, an Iran homosexual who is facing the death penalty in his country may be at risk of being persecuted in a refugee camp in Italy, where we sent it. This is why a woman who would apply for asylum from Norway because she was dealing with a stalker that the Norwegian police would not find or bond with, this woman from a completely secure state in general could in her own unique situation be in grave danger of being persecuted or severely damaged by human rights violations. I'm just stressing that we have this list of secure states in the library, this concept, this idea, to the bridge, that we don't use it as an alibi, as an excuse to escape every candidate's existence, about asylum, or whatever it is that gets people to knock at the door here in Iceland, that every individual will receive a righteous treatment, and that it is certain that a foreign agency will not just set in motion any opportunity and throw people out of the country without looking at the matter properly in the basement, as when she did when she put the assembly in the law, as she did when sending couples off the country because the Agency chose to interpret the law as well as it was possible. So I'm directed to the Minister to look out for this because the counsellor's will in the sentence of a foreign law was, as the minister came in fine, not to squeeze the access to Iceland, but to ensure righteous treatment for the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u51	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for her history. The case will now go to the General and Education Committee. I believe that there is a full reason why, as with a global and educational committee, we are making a decision to do what is right here, to do it in the way it is being suggested, to do a very well-worked foreign law and to respond to the comments made. The reason I'm coming up here is more about asking the minister if she's going to be here at the end of the discussion. The importance of equalizing those in Iceland and applying for asylums has been suggested for international protection as well as for those who come as eat-offs. I would be interested to hear from the minister how she feels about it and what she would like to do in order to equalize that position. Then I would also like to ask a minister, if she has developed a view of it, about the ideas that have been developed regarding the changes in the Foreign Institute. There have been many comments that the process is divided, on the one hand, toward the employment practices carried by the Labour Organization, and on the other hand, what is involved in the disposal of residents carried out by the Foreign Institute, although the decision - making committees have already been united by the new foreigners. It was interesting to me that this was one of the main suggestions because it hadn't been my feeling when I was at the Ministry of Health that the main focus was to change the founding ship. It would be interesting, however, to learn the position of a minister. Are there other factors that have been observed by the minister regarding the change in the alien law, either to expand it further or to expand it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen who have responded and have participated in this discussion. First, I would like to take up the defense of the ideal Foreign Institute, which was brought under attack. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that he had put the right interests of those couples who could not have been married for more than one year, i.e. It has been claimed that the Foreign Institute has based some of its decisions on the evil error of the law and has been a short period of time. On the contrary, the information I have received is not correct. On the contrary, it was the Foreign Institute that brought this error to the attention of the Ministry and stressed that the correction would be done very quickly because there were just some of the cases available to the agency. They have been, and are still waiting, and if, of course, I stress the reality of being here, this error will be corrected, so that, of course, the Foreign Institute of Iceland would be moderate in handling such matters as other decisions for a foreign agency to make. It is mentioned here, which is quite true and true, that the circumstances of these inmates are rarely exactly the same. While people may come from so - called secure states, their application for asylum in this country is based on objective reasons. I am stressing that even if there has been some of the current resources for the nation since the fall, that charges against rightfulness of the decision of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland, we have every reason to believe that each case is considered separately. There is no self-control of these cases. It is in accordance with administrative regulations, recorded and unsupervised, that each matter is considered specifically, and decisions based on a grammatical basis in each case. In addition, we have some sort of further safety valves, which include e.g. in the language system we have here with the people, i.e. that each one of us seeking refuge has the option of getting a spokesman to guide him through this system, and we also have lawsuits. The decisions of the National Institute of Foreign Affairs can be reported, and this is not even as if the case was necessarily completed, but we also have the courts under there and from the next year to three possible courts. This is far beyond what many other countries around us have, so these are security valves that I want to point out and ask men to remember to be there. Hv. Councilmen wonder and rightly point out that the situation of cryogenics, i.e. The refugees we first welcome here and bring in are different and in many ways much better than the inmates who find refuge here. There's every reason to balance that position. It may be necessary for a person to consider, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs will do so in the weeks ahead and in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, whether there is some perplexity to it. I haven't seemed to be there in a short while. That may be something like that, but in any case, there is good reason to examine it and balance the situation. As to the future organization of the Foreign Institute, because it was mentioned and killed in a recent report on these matters, that it might be a reason to make a significant change, I agree. Harðardóttir I've seen no special need to change the Foreign Institute. I state, however, that, of course, these institutions and all this system are just human activity, and it may need to be changed somehow. If it seems that it has to be done to remedy the situation, there is no basis. On the other hand, I warn that men will run into great changes just because men face some challenge that may only be temporary. A person must be willing to work too, although working in a particular environment may be difficult to do; of course, he must be willing to carry out his assignments and carry out his assignment, even if he is willing to give up for some time. It may be that a person has to circumvent some habitual but a marvelous breakthrough in this category, e.g. Now that we are faced with these challenges and a lot of influxs of inmates, as well as while we're all prepared to increase the number of welcomes of eaters, I'm not sure that this is the right time to make a major systematic change in the administration of these cases. Certainly it will be examined, this report is now considered and treated by both the Ministry of Health and at least in the Ministry that's coming to me. There is nothing excluded in these. That's what I wish to say. The General and Education Committee will be successful in considering this important matter that needs proper coverage and reviewing various viewpoints in the treatment of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u53	A respectable president. It's home-to-be at this conference, only Piratars in the hall. [[Up front.]] - Not anymore, though. This bill we're offering here might as well call it a bill on the legislation of a tax bill in Iceland. As a result of this change of law, some families will be moving to the country where the answer is lowest. Some people will be given the opportunity to contribute less proportionately to society than others. In other words, there will be a legal tax crisis in Iceland, certainly with more transparent than the tax industry in foreign lands than the tax industry anyway. There, Icelandic rich men and women will find refuge. The idea runs contrary to empathy and harmony. The nation's richest people will primarily be in a position to do this. It's about much of a service. You see, the type of community service varies greatly. Some rural areas have large summer houses but small whole - wound homes. There is no need for school, for example. Some have little or no social services or health care. Other rural areas have very limited infrastructures that lead to their inhabitants'having to attend different types of services. As reported in the media, some rural communities, especially the smallest, do not have the resources to care for the poly tonight - dressed individuals who need expensive care and service. More often than not, their families need to move to larger rural areas. Thus, the situation of disabled persons and their families may be forced to live in the rural communities that have the highest authority, since the service they need is only available there. So here is where seeds of discrimination are being sown. No doubt other examples could be drawn. I'd like to quote the comments of a member of the Union from December 4, 2014, which was last submitted by a President's permission: So the problem is, not to correct from the administrative limitations of your community's self-administration rights, but much more about whether a particular group of employees on ice should have a chance to escape much or entirely from paying out their income when choosing to live. In view of the situation in other Norwegian countries, it is seen that the country's law on municipal income is generally based on a minimum response (the part of the income tax of individuals running to the countryside) is legal. In Norway, however, only one response rate is available, while in other Norwegian countries there is a minimum in all countries. However, it should be noted that Denmark does not require a maximum response rate, in contrast to national legislation. The reason for this coordinated political position with our Norwegian neighbors, as well as with European legislation, is that all employees should pay a certain part of their pay to social projects according to local regulations. It doesn't matter what other aspects of the community's financial situation are. In a few of the other northern countries, it has been chosen that if the income of a rural society is beyond a certain percentage over the national average, a part of the income that is over the limit of the common fund will be paid. Thus, efforts are made to contribute as much as possible to local tax revenues. Icelandic rural institutions are an answer, a real estate tax, a tax from the County Fund, and a service income. The relative share of these harvested organisations may vary considerably between individual enterprises. There, both the population of rural society and the strength of individual tax collectors are affected. In this regard, local circumstances have much to do with the strength of tax collectors. It is the most important part of the payment of a property tax due to the implementation of the project. Also, local circumstances may make the payment of property taxes on summer houses a heavy road to small rural areas. Since small rural areas earn a lot of money from the stress of property taxes, circumstances may result in a significant decrease in the response rate to a minimum value of 0%, if minimal response is completely removed. It would create a potential for domestic tax-paradise and localized satellite home, with unforeseeable results. Thus, the inhabitants of these rural communities would avoid much or completely paying out their income regardless of the amount of pay they pay. Such discrepancies in rural society would certainly have a major impact on community cooperation in various regional interests. In addition, the target response would likely reduce the individual's interest in community unity with neighboring communities. The relationship has received quite a few comments from rural communities, all against the approved bill. Hence, in view of the current criteria, there is no need for a legal minimum response and a strong resistance to the change proposed in the bill. A respectable president. In case of a moment. A traveller, Vilhjálmur Árnason, was present today, would advise him to make one change in his bill. When asked yesterday, he said that it was impossible to eliminate the peak of expression, that was legal, and that is not a decision for the rural community. I was going to advise him to bring the conversion into the bill to set the maximum percentage simply to such an enormous extent that there was no risk that the rural communities would go all the way, we can say 80%, hence the roof is not really there. A respectable president. I strongly oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u54	A respectable president. I have to draw attention to the fact that neither original nor original. this bill, or any other transporter, is present during this discussion. V.E.G. The president is a more experienced member than I am, but I have to admit that I find it very strange not to show much respect for the debate presented here in the Senate Hall on my own matters. I wondered if yesterday's discussion may have been in the process of doing so. They have simply seen the advantage of running away from the matter and being away while discussing it. At least I find this to be a significant disrespect. If it is spoken in my tongue, yet I thought it would be before I sat at the High Council. I'll continue, rather than insist that the movers will be brought here, but not bound, but at least willing to move on the area, confident that the shipments of these discussions will be overrun. But that's probably just one side of the coin in the conference hall, for it would have been nice to have a word with tourists on this subject. There's a lot of stuff in this case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, the first traveler of the bill, who appeared yesterday, who will stop and make comments. Hv. paritaprevir The son of Einar Brynjólfsson, who spoke before me, came in with some of it and did well, including the maximum answer I allowed me to ask him why. 1st transporter out last night. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson if he did. The first transporter is concerned that there is a law binding on every farm income could be percentageed through an outback, i.e. which the answer is, it is the easiest to raise it as possible to give it to the rural community self-involved, such as the dog. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson came in handy. The love of freedom that floats across the lakes, both in this bill and in the matter of now, must be said to be true. The speaker, is only another way, i.e. that tax recovery can be reduced as much as possible; and if it is available to locals, it will have freedom to do so. On the other hand, if rural society chooses to raise taxes, they will have freedom to do so. That love of freedom. A senator - this is a bit strained love relationship, must be told, for it is not as if the rurals are a willing coven on this road. Senator. Hv. paritaprevir Einar Brynjólfsson found that the communities that turned in the story would have more or less, if not just everyone, objected. Hv. In his case, a traveler came into contact with local community's size how they applied these ideas. That certainly is an interesting point of view. I will take two of the world's most random companies, who turned in the bill when it was submitted to previous councils; Reykjavík, the largest community in the country, and Haunas, which have about 800 inhabitants. Both of these rural communities agree in their belief that the bill could do a lot of damage if it was legal. It simply does not hold water to use the number of people in a rural society as evidence of their stand. The rural population generally opposes this. You know, there's this weird obsession over there. transporters of this bill try to force it into recipients. Why do the communities oppose this? Sometimes I thought it was a matter of reason. Yesterday, a merchant said that it was as if he didn't fully understand the role of local income issues. The fact is, a large number of rural communities, my partner, get up to half of their income through the local congregations. Who will pay for it, and where do the rural communities get that money? From the respondents of other rural groups, all of them. The wealth of rural society and the income system of rural society, you see, is one of the finest examples of the combination we have. Municipals are paying in that fund, and from it is replaced by need. The drinking is in the mind of the couriers of this bill shame, and against it, I must fight with the idea of freedom as a weapon, whether anyone will accept it. Transporters seem to assume that rural communities get more than money from their own apartments. That is true of some community. Sure. But this is not true of all societies. It is a fact that small and frail farms cannot support basic services with incomes of their own apartments alone. That's why we've established this concordance. For example, a section of the collection of the country's side of the capital area is used to enable SMEs to maintain their basic services. So it is not unusual to present this bill in a series of times in total opposition to those to whom the bill is to be used. I asked why. Yesterday's transferer was asked if he'd studied the history of the bill in early stages. Yes, indeed, he said he did, but then he was very relieved of what had been presented in those comments. Let's just go over it a little bit. What do the comments of Reykjavíkurburg in 2014, when this bill appeared? It is a large, financial, economic, rural society that has a ideological origin. a messenger should not be particularly impressed by the fact that there were laws on minimal response and should even be very expensive for this bill. The fact is, however, that the smokers pay a special answer, 0.77% of the force, or commercial income of the Smokevík, which flows through an equation fund to support the intervening process. We operate basic schools in other rural areas, for example. By permission of the president, the city of Reykjavík says: The exception of a minimum response means that a rural society that can even half their income from the people of other rural areas can pay less taxes than those of the rural population that depend on a share of the expenses of the country's income. It has to be asked if it is normal for rural society to be contributed by other rural groups through the equation system to protect its citizens from sharing in shared expenses with a dramatic decrease in response. This may have been the case with Reykjavíkurburg; whether communities should be able to save their own citizens from sharing together expenses with a dramatic decrease in response. Because it's natural what's underneath. It is the intention of transporters to allow certain rural communities, which can be used in various circumstances, to protect their inhabitants from sharing in the combination that we've taken here when it comes to incomeing rural society. It is true that there are a number of factors that might be considered in terms of rural income. Time off. A panel would be well spent in settling properly in with the local communities and discussing how the exchange between state and rural society should be, how much of the community should receive in government income. You could sit over it. I'm not sure what. Transporters would agree with what I think any reasonable person sees when they sit down over the matter, that it lays heavily on the countryside. It would be a great job to settle over and see how we could strengthen the farm society's income companies. So that the rural community can bring in a relationship entitled the reasonably useful name of the European Union, which should be the first stop for those who intend to make some changes in rural income populations, to look into it: how do you feel now that we make these changes for you? In fact, a conversation has given a review of the bill, so we don't even have to look to them for comments on the bill. What are they? By permission of the President: Therefore, it is not a matter of amendment from the administrative limitations of the rural environment, but much more about whether a particular group of wage workers in Iceland will have the opportunity to escape much or entirely from paying out their income when it makes the decision to choose a farm. Of course, it's where the dog lies with the bill laid here. I've stopped counting all the numbers in the report to see how many times the bill has been submitted. The bill, of course, is trying to establish that a certain group of employees can escape in much or entirely under response. What is it like in the neighboring nations? We will likely want to pursue a good government and see how things are happening in the countries around us. It is most recently reported that in other Norwegian countries minimum and maximum response is required. In all rural areas of the north, it is fixed in law, space to rise, or decrease by just one percentage. Perhaps the representatives of all rural areas in the North countries have not heard the great message of freedom that the couriers have put in the past. What evidence is there for this uniform political stand we have as well as for the Norwegian neighboring nations? I'm going to repeat the reviews of an Icelandic country partner. They are that all employees should pay a certain part of their pay for community projects according to local requirements. It doesn't matter what other aspects of the local financial situation are. That's the key to it. This is an attempt to suggest it badly on the proposed bill that certain rural societies can put matters into place so that employees do not pay a certain part of their pay for community projects. Two of the transporters are new members of Congress, and much has now been said of the renewal of the Allied Council of Iceland and that new members of the council should follow even new and better tactics, new members of Congress have gladly said. At least I would have thought that these new senators might have tried to make this bill better. There I see a carrier of the bill that has seen fit to sit at least in the side room, thank you. But the bill as it is presented today is just like the bills when they have been submitted before. What is the response? Yes, this is a highly thought - provoking bill, and transporters have been encouraged to do it better. Would it not have been wise to listen to or even underneath the discussion, and only to reason more fully on the bill, regardless of the political issue? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u55	A respectable president. In the case of the bill agreed, this will result in greater conflict between rural society and would likely have a negative impact on e.g. Together partners as well as partnerships between rural society, e.g. in various regional interests. The last time this bill was presented, there was great opposition in reviews, and I would expect the same thing to happen today. So you ask yourself, " Is this a possible waste of time for the council? Even the Union of Icelandic rural society was deeply opposed to the bill at the time, arguing that the matter would need a much more meaningful and broadr discussion than the following report. A report by the European Union's team, for example. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé read up earlier and although he read it earlier, I'm going to read it again, with the permission of a president, because that's where the bottom line is presented: Therefore, it is not a matter of amendment from the administrative problems of rural self-administration, but much more about whether a particular group of wage workers in Iceland might have the chance to escape much or entirely from paying out their pay when it makes the decision to make a living. In view of this, I just want to ask straight: Is this bill some mountain background way of creating a tax plant in high-priored rural communities? Like what? paritaprevir Last night Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnytóttir pointed out that the bill is out of harmony with the trend according to an increase in the demand for any type of service within a rural community. Hv. paritaprevir A successful Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir asked if people should have the right to enjoy living in a rural society that has made more money and so? Of course, people are supposed to be able to enjoy it, but there are other ways to arrange it. What I would also like to point out in this context is that rural populations are mobile width. People move into a rural society, then they may move away some of the years later. That is why the development of this bill may result in a measure of a change in one's ability to look at a person's legs. Finally, I want to agree with the words and viewpoints of the question. paritaprevir Kolbeinn's Óttarsson, Othor, Proppé's son, concerning the combination, and of the value thereof, saying, No man is an island, neither is there any company.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u56	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on local tax cover. Let's just call things the right names. This is the bill that the area of rural society can be built to attract people who want to avoid paying for the combination. It's the old interest of the Independence Party, as we know it, just fine. On one occasion Iceland was to become a global financial center, which was saying that this island was to be founded and drawn to Iceland's funds from another source that could rest under cover from foreign tax authorities. When that dream broke, Icelandic rich men spliced one another to Panama and other similar countries, where they could rest without paying taxes to the community that the same individuals considered to be part of. The exception of a minimum of the force of rural society has not been convincingly in the case of the primer with anything except that there is some incentive for non-lawennial cohesion. Now I have to admit that there are reasons I don't quite understand. Maybe I'm too stupid to figure that out. However, it is the way rural society determines the taxation of rural society as a part of the competition that rural society has with each other. A respectable president. I don't want to think of the 70 rural communities that Iceland shares as competitors. Rather, it's more like a puzzle in the community we want here. I think we have more examples of the bad effects of local competition than good. This may prompt national tax-paradise development, as shown in the case of many members of Congress, and it has also been referred to in the report of the European Union since the last time this case went through a body of councilmen, which says, by permission of the President: It would create a potential for domestic tax-paradise and belonging to a satellite home, with unforeseeable results. Is this the future we want? Do we want this country's rich people, instead of shooting off to Panama with their money, buying a cottage in the Þröst Forest, extending all services in the capital area, or wherever it is that they live but keep a legal home in the small quarters, and thereby paying for a farm society other than what they use in their service, less expenses than otherwise, thus getting a discount on the contract that still needs to be paid the same? Then there is the moving burden, not just between rural partners, of the more prosperous ones who choose such a artificial home to escape taxes, that is being shifted more heavily on all of us, on us who only have a legal home in which we live and pay the tax that is natural to pay. You would've thought it wasn't that complicated. It is of natural interest to see, as noted, how the merchants of this matter are fled enough from it to avoid being seen in the hall. Now the only one in the side room is gone. Here we sit, people from most categories other than the Independence Party, discussing this matter in a language room designed to do counteractively, should not be alone. We will discuss the case of the Independence Party, for it is not enough for the movers to flee from it, but it is for them to bring up a matter proclaimed by the head of the party in the consigning of an election. You see, it's no innocent little Senate bill. This is one of the promises of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, the highest. Prime Minister, as shown in the VR 4th of October. because he said that taking a minimum response is one of the goals he would like to take. It was in a TV hall. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who laughed at Bjarni if I recall correctly and said that this was just a funny promise, and in no way harmonizes with what was real because of the rural communities themselves, to maintain their business, have nothing to do with this. So many other things are needed by rural society to strengthen their infrastructure other than minimum response. What about e.g. ... tobladeupthemaxout a little? Why is freedom to cut the line in one direction instead of the other? It's just the same principle that makes us sit here and talk about it one way, and the other side doesn't show up. No, Mr. President. I don't like taxes, whether they're within the country or between countries. And then I can think of us having been talking about the presence of the couriers in these discussions whether we could ease them through the minimality of this conference hall, whether it's their next interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u57	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in the discussion on this bill to legalize the law on the income-in-laws of my partner, i.e. ... toextendof minimal outlets. First, I'd like to say that I have to agree with that members of Congress, almost everyone but a bit. The carer of the bill who spoke for it, who has presented sound reasons why it should not be approved. Without even repeating all the things that have been said here, I'd like to add a little more friends to this discussion. As we all know, and even appear in a paper with the bill, the communities have a legal role that they need to perform. One of these roles is service to disabled people. Some years ago, services to disabled persons were transferred from the State to the local community. All those who have had a little follow-up, whether here at the General or outside the community, have heard and heard that the discussion is very often about how the local community has a hard time caring for this legal function as a service to disabled persons because they do not have enough money to do it, especially because in recent years we've been improving legislation, improving the rights of disabled persons, and increasing their rights to the service that they have the right to receive from their neighboring community. Obviously, in this context, the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people who were approved by all of us at the General Assembly and who at any rate claim to agree and support the emphasis on it, while acknowledging that it requires money to carry out the contract, it takes money to perform better service. There is always someone who has to pay for this service. I'd like to refer to a study published in 2013 that deals with disabled people as members of the rural community. The study included a very broad group of disability, not just those who are now enjoying the services of rural society, but all microorganism in various rural areas. There it was found that less than half of the subjects in the study are not receiving any day service or rehabilitation services from the local communities. It has often been said that although the transfer took on a large number of people who began serving from rural society during the State case, there are still many disabled people and microplies who have no service but may have the right to do so. In fact, we have a situation that has a system that is funded, but there are still plenty of people out there who even have the right to serve. The cost of serving is likely higher than what we know now. How does all of this relate to this bill we're discussing today? This is precisely because, as we have done so well, it is a bill that some rural communities can become low tax apocalypse, where some residents of this country do not pay for the combination, which includes. The school system and the affairs of disabled people I have been discussing here fall under. In fact, this bill, it would be accepted that I should hope that it will not be, that some may be able to avoid paying for services, and the burdens will move them to the others who pay their dues in other rural areas. It is also noted in the study that I quoted earlier about disabled people who live as members of a rural society that the services that disabled people can receive in rural communities affect the nature of the situation according to where disabled people not only choose to live but, in fact, must live. Living where they receive the ministry has no choice. If this bill was accepted, it might be said that the proceeds would be doubled for those who do not have to pay the minimum answer, i.e. They don't have to pay for their consumption, they don't have to pay into the common fund, and they don't even have to have citizens who can't pay to make high real estate bills, because that was one of those things. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason noted that it could be one of the ways these rural communities can earn money. This means, in all ways, a division between rural communities, where responsible communities have to take on greater burdens in order to run the otherwise - trying to aim and aim for. That's why I was especially surprised at what I was doing. The operator, Vilhjálmur Árnason, did not seem to have predicted whether the rural communities that would collapse or not collect an answer if the bill was approved could receive payment from the local congregation funds. There I felt that the stone was taken away in this case. It is still moving the burdens and making them more crooked by bringing possible tax returns, tax taxes that all pay, to rural communities that do not pay into the common fund. If there was some consistentity in the case of those who carry the bill, I would have thought that it should be said that these rural communities were to be separated, of course, from being able to obtain payment from the local Slurpee Fund. In this way, you might say that there has been some injustice in a case that I feel is grossly unfair. That was the main kick I wanted to bring into this discussion, i.e. the side that concerns that there is always someone who has to pay for the services they are entitled to receive to those disabled. As far as I can see, everyone agrees with the need for further expansion. I haven't even mentioned NPA in this context that I didn't hear better, before elections, but that candidates from all groups agree that they wanted to establish, which is once again known to lead to an expansion for their rural communities. I must agree with those who have pointed out that this case is a complete time error. They're taking the wrong end of what needs to be done when it comes to the financial affairs of the rural society. There must be a lot closer to thinking about how to increase the money of every member of the community so that they can live up to their legal roles and how to share the burdens in just ways with everyone, because it takes to run a just society. Of course, everyone should suggest that. I'd like to reiterate it, and say, of course, they have more money to add in especially a bit more to it than the less wealthy. That's how I believe we can make a better society. The first step, of course, is to throw that bill away and focus on how we can build up our rural society, not on cutting them off, as it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u58	V.E.G. President. I admit, I just fall in here and I don't know the background. I read the following in a report, with the permission of a president: This bill does not suggest a change to the legal role of rural society. However, the will of rural society does not discourage the lawgiver. That's what I'm talking about. A senator with an example of a rural society's intent or purpose to cut down the service mentioned here? These are rather serious accusations that are presented here if a community does not obey its legal obligation. I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Councilman Nichole Leigh Mosty for her question and will try to answer her as best he can. However, I must admit that I am critical of this bill, not its carrier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u60	I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u61	I know why. A senator knows, but it's my natural approach to this matter and part of my rational support. I just don't see how this is possible, i.e. how rural areas that would not collect some kind of minimum response should simply be able to fulfill their legal role in this way. I just don't see any fairness in how it should be possible by taking money in in any other way except because they're going to define their legal role so extremely narrow and to do as little as possible and thus even scare people away who need service. We fully know that the proportion of disabled people living in rural areas varies. This is also shown in the study I quoted earlier. I think that what happens is that the rural communities will then provide a very limited and small service, but they relies on other rural areas, which provide more services and collect higher levels of their population. The nature of the matter indicates that disabled persons move more closely into these communities. In that way, you have actually made some kind of perpetual machine that holds the tax and services in hand, and you push the people away who need the costly service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u62	V.E.G. President. I appreciate those answers. We who live in Reykjavík know, for example. NAPA's good. There is an enormous concern here, since the cost is high and we know the population transport from abroad to the city. People move here to approach that service. As I'm saying, I'm going into this conversation and I'm a little scratchy in my head over this. This was mentioned in a talk earlier regarding community unity, that there was no basis for such a thing. Is it all bad that we look for these ways to improve our ministry, that rural society cooperates with the ministry, and that we fulfill their legal duties better? That's my question. I'm just trying to figure it out because the discussion's been right here and there. I quote a report again, there is no discussion of cutting down services, and the rural community has to live up to it. I just don't get the feeling about the fear of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u63	V.E.G. President. I fear that low taxes may be created, low tax apocalypses that provide very limited services, services to the community as a whole, and that is thus pushing the cost to others that provide better services, even more than what is defined as a minimum, legal part of the rural community. When it comes to social assistance of rural society, it is very different between rural society, where some rural communities do better with people who are, for example, people. long - term work, with its right to unemployment insurance, while other rural groups pay very low amounts of money. Still, they obey their legal obligation. Of course, people must move to their rural communities or live in rural areas where the amount is higher, leading them back to the burden of the community, the load of well - being society spreads to fewer and fewer rural communities, where they must collect higher amounts of donations to care for that service. But rural society that would benefit from these laws, if they become reality, is really short - lived but puts the burden on others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's fair. That's why I'm against this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u64	Mr. President. This is where we'll talk about a bill to make a tax bill in Iceland, it sounds like. That seems to be the point. There are three good transporters, huh? Councilmen who have decided to take this legacy bill and recycle it for the fifth time here at the council and have us discuss what has been discussed in the past, whether to eliminate the lower limit of the issue required by local communities to collect from their citizens. In 2007, when this bill was first submitted, it received a review from the European Union, which said, by permission of the president: Iceland society strongly warns that minimum response rates will be canceled. A law on minimum response was adopted in 1993 as a law on rural income. The aim of this change was to reduce the difference between expansive pressure and thus equal the tax burden for the inhabitants of the country. The reason that legislation continues to set minimum response rates is that all citizens of the country who pay taxes on one of their incomes should pay their minimum share of the cost of community service given to citizens of the country. These arguments have not changed since the 1993 minimum response rate laws were passed. That was said in 2007. Here we are 10 years later, and that argument still holds true. That's really true. It's okay for everyone to sit at the same table. However, it is true that some rural communities in this country offer a much more limited service to their inhabitants, perhaps preferring rural areas that benefit from close association with other rural communities, which are less able to avoid performing some particular service. True, it is a legal minimum service that is required by rural society, but minimum services are extremely small. There are big things, such as basic school management and other things, but there are so many other things going on today that rural society allows which would be strange to lose altogether. Of course, there is no such thing as failure in general. But as it is now, there are 56 rural societies in the country that have the maximum response. One, Smokeytown, is beyond the limit of a special legal warrant allowing the local community, which is in the best interests of the year. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur patient of the Árnason, first of the motion, as well as in my district, have a higher response rate of 15.05% because it has been a problem. So there are a small number of rural areas that are between the peak and the intermediate. Then there's a total of three on the minimum. True, there are two of them in the Southern District, a population that is well within a thousand people. I don't see how the top-of-the-top rural society's advantage, let alone, will be better paid to create some kind of tax rivalry between rural society. This is exactly the same arrangement that we see companies in some countries working with taxes in general, moving their activities and registration to the low taxes area. Are we going to make some kind of tax-paradise inside the country so that those who may earn most of the money and get the easier way up with the wrong list of their home, or maybe the best chance of having two or more homes, can just sign up and run on any green ground? It's a little dangerous to me, especially in the context of the level of service that has been discussed here in this matter. I just don't understand what the advantage is to eliminate the minimum, except for possibly those who could benefit from these taxes. What community would benefit from this? At the end of the day, it's not about the business of any individual community. It's about the people who live there. If those people are in a position to be affected by some kind of liberal paradise here and there and there, and they may be forced to move to another rural society where they get better service, I think we're in a race at the bottom. A race on the bottom usually doesn't work very well for those who participate in it. The report of the European Union has been repeated since 2012. It is the perfect thing to tie it back once more, by permission of a president, which says: Since small rural areas earn a lot of money from the stress of property taxes, the situation may result in a significant decrease in the landing rate, or even 0%, if minimal response is completely removed. It would create a potential for domestic tax-paradise and localized satellite home, with unforeseeable results. Thus, the inhabitants of these rural communities would avoid much or completely paying out their income regardless of the amount of pay they pay. Such discrepancies in rural society would certainly have a major impact on community cooperation in various regional interests. In addition, the target response would likely reduce the individual's interest in community unity with neighboring communities. This is an interesting point in the light of things. paritaprevir Will Árnason said here last night. He said that one of his interests is trying to build an incentive for rural society to unite. If you're here developing an incentive based on the Union's opinion that you can't unite, I can't see that this is going to be the same as anyone else, i.e. other than making some kind of tax-paradise. I can't believe that in a paper with the bill, it doesn't comment on which societies are going to benefit from this. There's no record of the minimum rural population, which is the maximum, which is where the answer ladder is. It's just very few things around here, because the bill's a stuck-up, perhaps suggesting that it's never to be reached. It didn't even make it through 1st. of Council 141. Since then, the committee has been accepted and not supplied, but it received reviews that this was not desirable in any way. No one is willing to agree with this bill, but I'll admit that I didn't get to read the business council's comments on this subject, it could be that they're a positive reaction. I think this bill is another time, the fifth time here at the council, just a waste of time for all of us, and we should just skip it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u65	Mr. President. I remember it was former mayor Jón Gnarr, who described the relationship between rural society here in the capital area, so some of them were like the guy who showed up at a party after a dance and went straight to the refrigerator and began to eat from the host's food box. Of course, that is what he said, but it is a serious underlying factor. This has been a lot of discussions about how rural society would operate on a nail and get away with as little as possible from a legitimate service. But it's not just about the legal service. It's not only about the legal activities of a community, it's about them as well. It's about them illegal. Of course, it is particularly serious when rural society lies in one key completely together, and it is really a huge difference between people on either side of the street and them. It creates temptation, Mr. President. This will lead to some rural communities being tempted to cut down services. We can clearly see what we have done at the scene of rural society that is incredibly different in sports, culture, art, so I don't talk about the tasks that are so important to us, which, of course, are the issues of the disabled, schools, and other things that we should do, but they can be handled in a very different way, as the examples prove. The population is now making greater demands for service. It is strange to tempt a fellow rural group to become subjugated and competitive when we know that Icelandic communities compete, not with one another, for young people, but for all the neighboring countries. Of course, if they are to survive that competition, they should offer as the vastest and best service, legally but also illegal. Happily, families are not alone in choosing homes where safe food and shelter are safe. Happily, today we do more than expect of ourselves. I don't know, Mr. President, what should you say when governments offer such a bill where they lay the foundation of an Icelandic tax-paradise institution, as this has been so many times. This is what they do after the election, which was exactly about the Panama Documents, discussing a report dealing with foreign tax-paradises and their destructiveness. I think people should be aware of the opinion of the common people in such situations. This is also done at the same time as the job market situation is very delicate. Corine unions call for social stability, as well as economic, housing action, to better care for the welfare system. This bill is actually a concept of it. It allows the government to destroy the foundations on which our community is built. That this bill is now being recommended reminds me, in fact, when the alcoholic bill was first on the Council's program after Christmas vacation, 2009, when the battle of the crash was at its height. I think this shows that when it comes to the issues that people want to focus on, those independents who present the bill are in no way involved with the country. It's really just a joke, but in this case, a black humor, as I said before, and a lot of whales. Senators have mentioned here, that we are discussing a bill about Icelandic tax paradises now. Mr. President. With your permission, I would like to read from the U.S. local reference to a comparable bill submitted to the last council: Since small rural areas earn a lot of money from the stress of property taxes, the situation may result in a significant decrease in the landing rate, or even 0%, if minimal response is completely removed. It would create a potential for domestic tax-paradise and localized satellite home, with unforeseeable results. Thus, the inhabitants of these rural communities would be spared much or entirely from paying out their income irrespective of the amount of pay. This is a review from the Union of Iceland. Thus, the metaphor that most members of the council here have used to describe tax paradises is not some political exercise but, rather, the cold judgment of these total rural communities on the bill. I think this bill would be approved with bad luck. It would be a means of social stability and social reconciliation to pay taxes. A find that we work together, building together a community, and caring for one another. The largest taxing team in rural society is operating basic school together with social services. The agreed bill would simply create uncertainty about how to finance this service and induce the motivation to cut the budget down as far as human resources can get away with it. Maybe it's a goal anyway. Councilmen making the business money so that it will be easier to pick up school fees in elementary schools and promote personalization. Are not there better ways to speak for more personalization? Why doesn't the Independence Party come out of the closet and just talk it out, then we can deal with its pros and cons instead of being acquitted and sacred being sneaking in the back door, making the situation where we're sitting - and somehow everybody feels it's the only way. Mr. President. We also live today by the transfer system, where large rural areas are more valuable to rural Slurpee and less enjoying it. Citizens of Reykjavík City, e.g. 1% of their pay to live up to the basic services of other rural groups. Are we going to upset it? That's what these larger rural communities have, they pay a little more than what they want. Are we going to put down an equation of activity as many of the rural areas depend on? I'm not sure that there would be any steps that would be acceptable to see after a few years. The problem with this is that it would be difficult to go back. Many scattered little settlements are in enough trouble now to ensure good conditions for their inhabitants and make it easier for them to live in all parts of the country, so this will not be added to the top. We're discussing this now, Mr. President. Actually, I'm convinced that the bill isn't going to be a law. My final words in this discussion are that I hope that it will never come back in here again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u66	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize your unemployment insurance law, No. 54/2006, a prisoner's correction. Besides me, we're dealing with the bill anyway. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Bjöln the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Birgitta the daughter of Jónsdóttir. The bill is based on primarys for changes in older unemployment insurance laws, No. 12/1997. Since they have been asked here many times at a council but have not been decommissioned, I apply this again today. Unemployment insurance is designed to provide individuals with temporary financial support as they seek employment. Among the general terms that individuals are considered trustworthy under the law, they are either paid or acted independently during a designated work period before applying for unemployment benefits. Any who serve a penalties or sit in custody do not always have work as law No. 54/2006 clean up, and thus they do not earn the right to unemployment during their lifetime. True, those who are legally committed to the law and disappear from a workforce when they take out the sentence in a court of law are stored when the acquired unemployment insurance is stored until they have completed the punishment. This, however, applies to a minority of prisoners, since most of them did not engage in secular work regularly prior to the start of execution. As a result, more often than not, prisoners outside the unemployment insurance system will be able to recover, but this makes it harder for them to get back on track after the loan is over. According to the movers, the current system increases the risk of reuniting and thus violates the objective of the criminal defense system and helps individuals who have turned their backs on the magazine. So the bill suggests that if a prisoner is made up of proof from the prison authorities works, studies, or training that is available within the relevant prison, according to the law on the ultimate penalty, No. 49/2005, if he earns the right to unemployment because of the period as if he had been working secularly. As a result, those who have completed their sentence can remain faithful even if they do not qualify as employees. However, they must meet other conditions of insurance protection, such as active job search and residence. For the period in which an individual sits in a custody ward, or is serving a penitentiary and working, studying or training should be performed in line with the law on the full penalty, in line with the rules of 1 5. We're calculating the insurance rate. If an individual has, e.g. in the last 12 months before applying for unemployment benefits, two months of penalties, and the course of work, study, or training should be completed and a full - time job should be completed two months, allowing the individual to feel secure in one third part, as 2 mgr. 15th ......., to other conditions fulfilled. So, here, I cut down a little bit on a paper that goes with the bill, I'd like to say that I'm fully aware of the views that may have been opposed to this bill, which remains that the insurance fee is used for this purpose, i.e. to meet prisoners who work, study, or training within prison. Then I say, on the contrary, this is the way the commanders of the bill suggest that they be carefully examined and watched in the overall context of the situation of prisoners and the ideologies we discussed here in a special discussion that I think two days ago. A senator and coauthor Birgitta Jónsdóttir had started. It is one thing to make our prisons better so that people really have the opportunity to return to the magazine and come as better citizens back into society, but this may be the other half of that matter, i.e. that there is something that will receive people, that they can see the purpose of studying, working, or training in prison, that is something that they can accept when they come out of prison. Like I say, it may be. It's not the best way, but it's an idea of a way to look and possibly go if you can settle for it. With those who disagree with this route and don't want the insurance bill to be used in this, I say, "Come up with a better idea, I'm open to see other ways, but you can't leave this group behind. That's not possible. That's what we've been doing too long. This is not a large group, so I don't think the current system will turn aside, though the insurance bill will be used in any way to meet this group. This is one way, a way we have to look with an open mind and in the overall context of all that we've been discussing here recently at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u67	A respectable president. In prisons, there are many jobs. I don't see how that work is different from other jobs, even though somehow it was taken out of parentheses in this system. First of all, I want to remind you of the tremendous responsibilities we have as a community when we go to prison. I've mentioned it before in my short time here that it's very serious. The primary purpose of the loan is to restore humans to the community is better than they came in there. Other reasons are just out of date. Sentencing isn't punishment. If anyone thinks so, he needs a serious re-education. This bill provides a financial basis for a new and better life for men and women who turn out of prisons, that is simply so. When prisoners are released, they have amazing problems that we can hardly imagine. It's kind of an excommunication when they leave, so they try to get into the job market. It is not easy for them to do so, except for all the concerns involved. The bill also encourages study. Study is counted by many, experts in prison and other institutions, key premises that something changes in their fortunes, education. Some people are completing tests that they had not finished, but it is very important to encourage those who will be able to get out of the study. Besides this, there's work in prison, no matter if there's rain, cooking, the laundry at Little Hogue, the license plate numbers, and anything else that goes on there, just work. And that somehow we're going to take it out like this is precocious. That's not a lot of money. It's not a lot of people, but it costs us a lot of money not to do this and put people out at the bus stop after abduction, nothing at all, often with no plans directly due to lack of money as well as because we don't make them so we don't. This bill gives them the space they need when they get out, the person who has encouraged them to study, to work, to work that they can do outside the prison, even to gain experience. This whole thing is incredibly important. Those who go out of prison have worked out with society, so they should have the rights of other humans. What a blessing that bill would be!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u68	A respectable president. The economy and the standard of living we live in Iceland are based on open access to foreign markets and, at the same time, the natural and reasonable access of foreign people to the Icelandic market. Governments must be open to new opportunities, recognize potential dangers, and have knowledge to identify currents and policies in international politics and commerce. Open and mutual communication and cooperation with other peoples of art and culture have enriched the Icelandic life, supported creative articles, and given Icelandic artists opportunities for success in other countries they have used with spectacular success. Icelandic universities and scientific institutions have shared in international work, shared their knowledge, and enjoyed the knowledge of others. Each year thousands of Icelandic students receive education from other countries, and most return to their homeland by new knowledge and new methods. It is safe to say that an Icelandic society is more colorful and varied because of open communication with other nations. A respectable president. It is safe to say that few nations have more free international business than they do with Iceland. We have good experience with the construction of vacation contracts, including our participation in EFTA, where the EEA contract is the most important. A free trade deal is at the Faeroe Islands, the Hoyevík Convention, and in 2014, a free trade deal went into effect with China. There's a deal on trade between Iceland and Greenland, which requires some form of tax benefits in the trade between the countries. We are to increase these in all areas of communication with our friends and neighbors in Greenland not only in business but also in culture, health care, nature protection and resource use, education, etc. The EFTA countries have made 25 free trade contracts that cover a total of 36 countries. Me and the Icelanders benefit. However, the expected elimination of Britain from the European Union can have a significant economic impact in Iceland, since Britain is one of our most important business countries. In recent years, the spread of goods to Britain has grown steadily, and the availability of British markets is vital for us, especially by seafood. Service transactions are also important, but the export of service to Britain is about 61 billion. every year, about 10% of the overall service business. British tourists are extremely important for tourism, and they are the second largest group to follow the United States. Thus, it is clear to all how important it is for us to secure our business interests in Britain. This will be best done by a large vacation contract. In fact, I believe that we view other aspects of that relationship, especially in science, education, art, and culture. I think it is necessary for us to take a clear course in a free trade with other nations but at the same time respect national sovereignty and self - determination. By our open business, our interests as well as those of other nations who engage in free trade are strengthened. It is also an important subject for the Icelandic foreign service and the government to set specific policies at a vacation trade in the developing world. A free trade is a much more efficient method than a non-remarkable development aid in helping poorer countries break out of poverty to the rocks. I think we should take special attention to the aspect of a vacation store when it comes to poorer lands. That's what I'd like to say. I'd like to direct the following questions to the highest level. Foreign Minister: Has the Ministry of State had the economic impact of Icelandic free trade agreements? What have free trade agreements returned to Icelandic consumers, such as the payoff agreement on China? What is the policy of the Icelandic government in making free trade agreements? Very much. Secretary of State will promote free trade agreements between Iceland and Britain? What holiday contracts do a minister consider to be desirable for us Icelanders in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this special discussion, and I hope that it will only be the beginning of the discussion that we need to take care of in this regard. In a few years, free shops in the world have completely changed. As an example, the number of Chinese middle class, which has Western commercial power and consumption habits, has become larger than all Americans combined. India is on the same route. It is obvious that if a export - drive economy like ours is to thrive in a bitter global competition, we must be one step ahead of others. The situation is simple: We have everything to do with free, inexhaustible business. We cannot allow ourselves to compromise. Every time the management board must be on toe, in constant consultation with the export branches, be forward - looking, and activate the resources available to us. This, of course, applies to Icelandic consumers who warn of a lack of inhibition at a customs-observation vacation, an increase in goods and standards, a lower price. Our prosperity is based on access to foreign markets. Similarly, our open market is the advancement of the world's poor. It's the core of a vacation store. It is imperative that Iceland be alert to the challenges that exist, living in flexibility and reversal to seize opportunities to increase the market share of Icelandic exports in bitter global competition. We're on our own, and we're on our way to a vacation store. Let's look at the facts. The Icelandic toll file contains an 8601 toll number. From the beginning of that year, tax freedom was on 7,700 numbers, which basically means 90% of tax freedom in the country. In addition, there are tax freedoms on certain traditional agricultural products as per free trade agreements. You can hardly talk about customs in connection with Iceland's business policy but there's an open, barrier economy. What remains are unique species of what we call traditional agricultural products. These facts speak for themselves. It does not come upon us when it comes to a world without obstacles. Iceland is a great stronghold when it comes to these matters, and we're in a very jealous position. We have our own business policy and are not attached to other countries when it comes to a market application for Icelandic interests. Our Member States that EFTA has been and will remain the vertebral device in our free business, as the EFTA countries have exerted themselves vigorously in recent years, extending their free-sized network with a significant deal with a total of 38 countries. In the field of EFTA, free trade negotiations with extremely important countries such as India, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Malaysia and negotiations are beginning at the Mercosur Community, which Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay are involved. In those cases where negotiations in the area of EFTA are not available, half the Icelandic government has been seeking to secure the interests of Icelandic employment by making two-sided Iceland's vacation contracts with individual countries, such as To Big China and to our friends Of the Offeys. In this context, I would like to mention a report that the EFTA office worked last year to remind you of a request made by the current head of the Senate Committee for the development of the EFTA business with which they have signed free trade agreements. The report reports that the export from Iceland to Canada has more than doubled during the period before and after the construction of a free trade contract. The export to Chile increased by tenfold after making such a contract, the increase in export to South Korea was 30%, and the export to Singapore increased by four times. In terms of other EFTA trade agreements, exports were all covering a significant increase in the combined EFTA export to the relevant Member States. Hv. In his speech, a inquirer stopped making a deal with China. Iceland and China's trade trade trade has increased by 20%, but the overall deal was less than 62 billion last year, compared to 51 billion in 2014. It is highly appreciated that this was not only an export but also a return to consumers in lower prices of clothing, shoes, electronics, and other products produced in China and moved to this country. Similarly, China's Internet trade has increased dramatically. A respectable president. Hv. A senator gave the big political news when the British people decided to leave the EU. Bbifit has released a lot of energy, and it's our job to capture them and stay in the lead when it comes to a vacation store. The British want to get rid of the resources established by a joint EU business policy and want the British government to create a flexibility in order to maintain its own global interest. The work of the Icelandic government is obvious. It's to make sure that at least private access to the British post-British markets, and preferably better, as well as to guarantee the rights of Icelandic citizens living or working in Britain. There are several stage shots on the board that are being worked, and this week the British themselves opened another stage I'm celebrating, and that's Britain's return in EFTA. It was a British Parliamentary committee that made its suggestion in a more thorough report published on the last Tuesday. [[The president calls.]] It is remarkable that only a few Europeans put free shops at the top of their priorities at this time and that both Iceland and Britain are among them. We need to follow through with our actions, and that will be what we will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u70	Mr. President. Thank you for starting the discussion. Free trade agreements are a very important part of Iceland's foreign trade and hence our foreign policy. There's the biggest and most important EEA deal. Free trade agreements are made by the Icelandic government for business and economic purposes in the state or a group of countries to improve the access of Icelandic enterprises to the relevant markets to reduce or eliminate business barriers and to ensure long-term competitiveness of the Icelandic job life, which includes significant tollation and to set up opportunities for cross-border enterprises. Second-generation free trade agreements also include terms of freedom in the service trade, protection of investments, intellectual rights, competitive affairs, and clear rules of living and working for key workers. Exquisite followers of free trade agreements point to the national benefits of free trade and international trading as the driving force behind their structure. The reasoning of those who want to advance unregulated vacations is also focused on humanitarian acts, especially on the poor people of the nations. The rich Western nations have these contracts to help poor Third World In this string, the highest was found. The minister of foreign affairs in recent discussions at the Council when a free trade agreement was discussed in Iceland and Georgia, discussing how human rights violations involving the regulations of EFTA regulations that Member States confirm their commitment to democracy, justice, and freedom of human rights in accordance with their duties. And this is true of other vacation contracts involved in Iceland. Sadly, business interests are far more rewarding than human rights. I'd like to know at the top. Secretary of State whether he intends to use himself for a free trade contract between EFTA and the Palestinian Freedom Association that took effect in 1999 could be more effective than he has done and whether he has taken up this matter at his meeting with Riyad al-Al-Maliki, the Palestinian Foreign Minister, at a meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva for a short time. V.E.G. The minister of state went over the China Treaty, but on the question of the free trade agreement with Britain, does that mean that we're only going to do it with multiple contracts in relation to EFTA, or are we going to focus on making a two-sided contract between Iceland and Britain? [[The president calls.]] This is important, and I hope to the highest. Secretary of state can answer our questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u71	The president insists on showing respect for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u72	Mr. President. Free trade agreements once focused on free shops, and they were good. A free trade between countries is one of the basic elements of modern living. It is true that we should look for more free trade agreements, especially in connection with developing countries, and not out of the way of putting the priority on a free trade deal with Britain, which seems to be about to apply itself to commercial pressure and countries that are using it in general wars. Generally, I'm very into it because we're trying to expand within EFTA and even expand the EFTA itself to Eastern Europe. In recent years, perhaps primarily since the GATT contract was adopted, free trade agreements have become all over other things, they are another generation of such agreements. It is, in fact, there. Often it is called ISDs which are special laws that resolve disputes between countries and investors. It is normal to have judicial decisions that resolve disputes between countries on the subject of agreements, but it has been very difficult to allow investors to drag countries through expensive legal procedures. It would take just one of those cases to bring down the state funds if these were recorded and used in general, as Canada has become one of the greatest legalities in the world over the ISDS Convention and its interaction with the vast natural resources of the country. But if you know what I mean, at the Iceland Free Trade Convention and China, it's exactly what it is. For one reason, regardless of the other positive aspects of that contract, this would really be a reason to break the contract and keep it safe not to put such laws in the future. We must expand our vacation and thus strengthen our interests and others, but we must be careful that a vacation store will not become some kind of triggers or a label for the troll horses that come and support big corporations in a harmful way at the expense of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u73	A respectable president. There is a need for discussion about Iceland's situation and association with the outside world, with special emphasis on business relations. In our present situation, two things are the most important to us. On the one hand, it is our responsibility to EFTA and the free trade agreements made on their side. However, it is the EEA Convention that has a head and shoulders for all of the importance. It guarantees us a vacation store, though, with important exceptions regarding agricultural and marine crops. Of course, the EEA deal is much more than a standard vacation deal, as we all know. Besides this, Iceland has made three contracts in its own name, i.e. With China and Faeroe Islands, i.e. The Hoyvík deal, then a business deal with Greenland. The above points clearly show that our business network and relationships depend almost exclusively on cooperation with other countries in these areas, see our involvement in the EFTA and the EEA Convention. It shows how important it is for us to share in such cooperation, that is, access to Iceland's most important markets. In spite of everything, our European countries will become the most important market for the long future, we know them best, and they will lie down next to us. Granted, markets outside Europe are important, but they will never get along with the toes where Europe is wearing its heels, where our greatest business interests lie. In this context, it should be reminded that the European Union has the largest commercial network of this kind, reaching the range of between 8,960,100 countries around the world. True, our interests need to be maintained with Baltrexit, but it is certainly not to overshadow others and more important interests. A respectable president. If people are really interested in promoting the European Union free trade, which is largely involved in the EU, of course, the right choice to include in a discussion of Iceland and a vacation store. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for taking the initiative in this important and interesting discussion and also ingesting the highest level. Secretary of state. I like those questions as well. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason makes it very interesting and interesting to hear how foreign trades have been increasing with China and EFTA countries in the third state. This shows that our foreign policy has been on the right track, and we now see to it that the economy for the last year is 7.2%, and it continues in the last two quarters in part of the foreign market that was negative in the last two quarters of the year. This further shows that the prosperity of Iceland, of course, is based on the fact that we have good and paid access for our products and services, which is so that when we move out our products and services, we first come to a certain stage of development. There's two things I might have wanted to mention here in particular. It is the future arrangement that must be in our dealings with the British. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson spoke of our business with the British. We are very important in exporting, both goods and services. I think it's four things that I think they're looking for. Four stage photos. The first is to make a deep two - sided economic agreement with the British. I think we need to think very seriously about working on it because we see that there are all kinds of colours in the air that deal with the British. Some say that it will be very difficult for the EU and the United Kingdom to agree, so we must keep up - to - date with the British. Another thing that I was very happy to hear in the history of a foreign minister is that he mentioned that the grieving in Iceland's foreign policy is our involvement in EFTA. So it is very clear what government policy is in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u75	Mr. President. It was not least with the battle of equals in the restoration regime for decommissioned, more open communication with the outside world, the construction of free trade agreements, and the introduction to EFTA, that the benefits of the country were greatly improved by the public. In fact, it was a different and more liberal restoration than it was who composed from us a potential for more open communication with the outside world in a new government covenant at the beginning of the year. Cross-border communication is not merely a wise way but a good way to succeed in the many common projects of mankind. I have a struggle for equality, for poverty, and for global warming. Then free international exchanges are crucial, not only for the economy of the country and thus for the public, but also for the support of developing countries and equal to the status of all the peoples of the world. The most equal of all earth's inhabitants is the most likely way to promote democratic development and peace in the world. The most important thing in Iceland's vacation contracts is the EEA deal. With it we secure access to the European Union's inner market and in 2015 over 70% of our export there. The EEA contract, however, does not guarantee complete access. In the EU, we were able to bring down the tolls of seafood products that would give increased export opportunities on the full farms and products that would leave a great amount of value on the land. I'm the highest. Secretary of State to employ more free trade agreements and to be in good contact with other EFTA countries on that matter. There I look evenly in Britain and in developing countries. It's important to get to the top. The minister of foreign affairs there stresses continuing to extend the free trade agreements and has to be increasingly involved in activities other than just the toll increase. They need to consider the rights of remuneration, support of services, and encourage environmental protection, and especially the protection of mental rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u76	V.E.G. President. There have been some contacts in this special discussion of free trade agreements. I think it's quite clear that the trade between countries is less than about to go to lie down and even increase. That's why I'd like to include in the discussion a point that has not yet been discussed, but it's the climate effects of free trade agreements. I was studying the Agency's U.S. report for Agriculture and Trade Pos, in 2016 discussing the environmental effects of free trades. It points out that the Paris Convention is silent when it comes to dealing with climate impacts from investments or vacation agreements. However, it also points out that in 2008, and it is now quite a long time since 2008, and it can be assumed that a vacation store has increased rather than any other one since that year, a team of investigators estimated that a quarter of the current greenhouse gas emissions had to do with commercial and services. That's very serious. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State: Has the State Department evaluated the climate impacts of Iceland's holiday contracts or promoted them in the field of EFTA? If not, I'd like to direct it to the highest level. Ministers to accept it into the equation as well when it comes to the practical use of free trade agreements, since that is what Polish the 21st century calls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u77	A respectable president. Free trade agreements are largely based on noble goals. Good vacation agreements are based on mutuality, whether it is a complex or two - sided agreement. Successful vacation agreements improve the lives of Icelandic companies by reducing and removing any business barriers and being involved in ensuring the long-term international competitiveness of Iceland. This is all true of successful vacation contracts, as stated earlier, which include free trade contracts that are not secondary to the democratic system we live in in Iceland. At the last term, however, the TiSA deal was quite part of the discussion. The TiSA deal is primarily about service transactions, which are the kinds of vacation agreements that will probably increase in the future. The TiSA deal carried a number of factors, however, that can be of great concern in the context of free trade agreements for our nation. It includes the fact that in the Treaty itself, secretism ruled. The public and even the Parliament had to have a lot of access to information and data on the negotiations while international companies had access to the negotiation table from the beginning and during the process. They also had a slow return to influence the party itself. Another concern about free trade agreements is the judges. The judgments are often made by people who are actually incapable of handling matters because they are too linked to the executives. The principle is that companies win. In this whole context, the question that we need to answer is not only in word but also on table: What is more important for us to have in a highly regarded legal capacity aimed at improving the interests of the people, nature, and close to our environment and the democracy of our work? Or do we feel that it is more important to secure the wealth of large international companies? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State on the TiSA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about Bgreit, and I know we're at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is less optimistic when it comes to Bgreit. But the discussion is not about that much optimism. It's about Iceland's interests. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs to a number of things in connection with Britain's eviction from the European Union. Can the British and the Icelanders negotiate their vacation shops before being of Baltrexit? Can they start their discussions and finish them? And then I want to know: What will happen on the first day after British eviction from the European Union if there are no contracts between Iceland and United Kingdom and if we enter the so - called Global Bgrets? So what is the worst possible outcome of this process? Third, I would like to ask: How long will a minister expect him to take, depending on Bfenit, until a new vacation contract between Iceland and Britain is established, either by a two-sided contract or by an EFT or another arrangement? Will it happen the same day that Britain leaves the EU? Is that gonna happen a week later, a month later, a year later? What is the minister's expectations so far? And if we're going to talk about a free shop with the British, what expectations does a secretary have for that agreement? Would there be a mutual import in living animals? Would this be a mutual import of raw meat? Does Ministers believe they have a contract comparable to that in the EEA today? Or does he think it'll be less? Finally, freedom isn't only about free shops, the EEA contract also grants us the rights, citizens of these two countries, to move and settle down. Is it not absolutely certain that we plan that it will continue after Britain leaves the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u79	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion, Prime Minister for starting it and the highest. The minister of the Foreign Minister, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, for the answers. As we have seen during the discussion, these are very large and extensive questions. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to ask the secretary of state. I think it's an assignment for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer to them almost throughout the ideal period. They are important, as we have seen. Free trade agreements have been very important to us, we have over the years emphasized two - sided agreements instead of - as we have seen other nations, including the British, who have decided to enter government law. However, we've had close cooperation, and it's good to hear that. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will continue to emphasize our cooperation in EFTA and that the EEA Treaty is the basis for business and cooperation with other countries. But there are also very interesting questions I would like to ask the highest. A minister will do a little better when he arrives in his second speech. Regarding the last question the senator asked about increased emphasis on a vacation trade in developing countries, how does the Minister figure that it harmonizes with the work he has been doing and the increase in money he has received in support of development? At the same time, I ask him to improve the quality of his vacation contracts that he considers desirable for Iceland to be done in the next few years. Finally, how important is it that we constantly reevaluate the agreements we have made? And the effect; have the treaties actually turned back what we anticipated? We have taken the recent discussion of large contracts that, though, came to terms with taximplies, their goals of agreements proved to be quite different from what it seemed to be. [[The president calls.]] I think that has to be true with all the international agreements that we make that we are always ready to revise them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and Minister for this discussion. Icelanders have lived at different times in their business dealings with other countries. In earlier centuries, we shed some of the shores under circumstances beyond the control of a populous nation. The century is now another, but we are still in a number of bonds where business barriers exist within the country. If it were not available for the advisor to speak for a vacation or improved business venture at home, rather than to spend time with the mouth and mouth of decades as well as the stable interests of the Independence Party, e.g. the agricultural business? In this town, a preemptive policy, and even a debate on certain terms of freedom in dealing with other European countries, which have led to the establishment of a part of the party in a new category crisis. No group has ever met another such revolution in business, and a free trade with other countries, and the Democratic Party, the predecessor of the United Nations, and contributed to the improvement in public interest. Of course, the major steps were involved in EFTA in 1971. In 1994, another massive project taken by the officers who took the initiative and led into a foreign trade was the EEA Convention, which went into effect. The European Free Trade Agency and the European Economic Area are the principal centers of Iceland's foreign trade. With its involvement in the EEA, most of the population enjoy the same business ventures as some 30 other European countries, with about 500 million people markets. Our future interests need to be taken care of, working in the spirit of the policy set up by the Conspiracy Treaty with more countries, growing countries. An example is the deal with China, the work of an equal. Full participation in the European market is a key to maintaining progressive enterprises in the country, increasing jobs, creating applications for Icelandic pioneers and creative articles. Active participation involves large fishing instruments in the field of full - time development, which could also increase jobs and produce valuables in marine areas. [[The president calls.]] Freedom of religion would also create great opportunities for agricultural exporting products and would strengthen such articles as sheep's breeding. In battles involving movement for progress and the interests of the common people are constantly guided.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u81	A respectable president. It has to be said, as it is, that I find it convenient to know how good harmony seems to be here in a Senate hall when it comes to vacation shops and vacation contracts, even though there are, of course, some differences. I'm not going to argue with men about history, and thanks to who and who are refugees, etc. But I think the highest. The minister of state is a few pitys below when he needs to answer about 15◯20 questions that have been addressed to him. I think this will show us the need for us to discuss policy further in our foreign business, and maybe we should take sides. I'm particularly interested in our dealings with Greenland and how we can improve our communication in business, science, environment and environment, health care, etc. I'm also interested in discussing specifically whether it might be wise to take the lead in creating a special vacation area in the North Sea with our friends in Greenland, Norway, the Faeroes, the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom - maybe it's some peripheral idea, I don't think - because we're working together in the field of science, art, culture, education, health, environment, and security. It's such a future mouse that I'd like to talk about, but there's no time for this. This may include some special discussions at the highest level. Secretary of state in the next few weeks on specific matters. [[The president calls.]] Finally, in two minutes I wish he would have a success in answering those 15 intangible questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u82	A respectable president. I thank you for your cooperation on the main ingredient of this conversation, which is a vacation store. Controversy about our involvement in EFTA is just very important. However, I cannot guarantee that I will answer all the questions presented here. I felt that there were some things in the discussion, and I'm not going to put them in touch with one or another, based on a certain misunderstanding. I'll do everything I can to bring up information on both the consequences of the holiday contracts and what the trend will be in the years ahead. No matter what we may think, there is a change in the world's population development and economic system. We're in a hurry. Long reports on how these issues have developed have been made. The strength of those closest to us will greatly decrease compared with that of others. It is only an opportunity, but we need to accept it. In dealing with Britain and the EU: I just don't believe that those who speak the most strongly in the EU field that they intend to punish Britain for having decided in a democratic way that it will happen. This will cause the EU's population to suffer worse. Long-last. I don't want to believe that that's happening. It'd be bad for everyone. It would be very bad if there were obstacles to business in Europe, since one nation decides to be no longer one of the partners we are in. But we need to go over it and compare our situation with that of others, for example. With regard to our business policy, Norway, the EU, and so forth, and see how we stand and what we can do better. I'm pretty much on that information, but I'm going to present that information in a more structured way and then I'll be expected in a foreign minister's report so that we can discuss it from that position. I am even more convinced now after this brief discussion that we are to take the step of dividing the foreign committees into two regular committees; one with EEA, EFTA, and the holiday business, which would be then a regular committee, and then with a traditional foreign press committee. [[The president calls.]] It's just a big one. It's important. I'm very pleased with the harmony that came out here, and we have to discuss this matter on the bottom. I'd like to ask you a courtesy, a respectable president, but all the questions that came here made it impossible for me to review them in the two minutes. [[Take a point: Answer them.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u83	Sound at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u84	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a variety of traffic laws. Above all, it is the induction of our international commitments. Rather than conveying these laws as five different prime products, it was decided to unite them into one bill to simplify them. The proposals are consistent with the objective of not going beyond the limits required by the obligations of the State. Section I of the bill suggests changes in the limitation levels of 177.g. A cruise song, this article deals with the damage demand of passengers for life and body transport. In accordance with the nature of the issue, the risks of all activities at sea and accidents and accidents can lead to significant damage and expense, not only on ships, passengers, and cargo but also by pollution ions. General rules of damage rights recommend that the sufferer fully improve the damage done to the injured. An exception to this principle is found in sailing laws, which says that builders can limit their liability. Such restrictions are one of the characteristics of seafood, and they are globally coordinated on the basis of international agreement on restrictions on marine rights that Iceland has been responsible for since 2008. Five years ago, changes in international agreements were adopted because of changing prices and experience. They became meaningful in the middle of 2015. Iceland, therefore, is obliged to upbuild its limits on the marine budget in accordance with these changes. Il. section of the bill is proposed to change the laws on air travel. The proposals lead to three types of Europe. First of all, there is a Regulation on the announcement of public flight events. The announcement refers to the announcement of the safety concerns that experience has shown that there are often the exception of plane accidents and serious flight events. Information about such anomalies contributes to improving the control of enterprises on air management as well as air traffic authorities. The rules for reporting events have been consistent in the EEA area since 2005, first by directive and now by Regulation. Prior to implementing the Regulation, changes in air travel must be made, but it is now more strongly recommended to establish a reporting system which makes it easier to collect information on reporting events. These systems are also expected to include optional notifications, but there are reports of individuals who do not have a special obligation to report, their position, but they may be employees in other fields than those that have an abnormality or that have a passenger. There are also certain requirements for databases and processing, and those who report events and other activities are not granted legal guidelines on the part of an enterprise. Second, it is suggested that air traffic laws be removed, with the height of the flight driver's age. The changes are due to the Regulation on the license and the implementation of certificates for the air traffic manager, which is recommended for the maximum correlation in the EEA area. There are no regulations regarding the age of the air traffic manager in the Regulation. So it's necessary to be removed. Thirdly, a pilot's status on air travel is recommended. In this country, a policy on flying protection will include the implementation of European actions on air protection. For some time in this Regulation, it has been recommended that members who have agreed on a flight protection to appoint responsibilities for air protection. The person who has been called a pilot in the Regulation has been instructed to operate as a confidentiality of the Grouping Agency. During changes made to the Regulation last autumn, the job name of this party was changed to the F.O.W. The interest stakeholders then pointed out that it was reasonable to measure the pilot's legal status as well as his position as a confidant against the Association. The pilot is the person responsible for guiding, implementing, and enforcing the Air Protection Program of a member who has approved for flight protection. It is also suggested that a minister be authorized to recommend the need for air protection requirements in the Regulation. In III. section of the bill discusses changes in the laws on the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and shipping vessels. The adjustment proposals there are rooted in Iceland's Member States for international education and training, certificates and seamen duty positions, called SCW release. The agreement is considered to be one of the most important marine international emissions, which is a recommendation for minimum education and training of the trade ships. In 2010 a significant change in the approval was made, but one of the changes involves that the sailors'health proof is recognized by the government. The current law does not require such medical recognition and the need for law to be changed. This is also suggested by changes in the legal way. The law specifically involves passenger boats, such as boats that can transport to a maximum of 12 passengers. The SCW release is not about such boats, and it is therefore necessary to measure them specifically in order to enhance their clarity and prevent the error of the Icelandic law and the approval. IV. section of the bill is proposed to change the operating law. Much more cargo is being done at sea. So it is important that sea transport is as easy as possible, but paperwork and high complexity prevent sea transport from fully developing. A special contract has been adopted at the International Sports Institute, which has the goal of making it easier for sea transport. This agreement contains models that standard simple forms for ship - to - ship use should meet certain formalities for reporting on docks or ports. In order to prevent different exports within the EEA it was decided that the standard forms of the International Agency were to be used, and this has been done on the basis of a 2002 Directive. The International Cording Agency Convention has now been modified and has been issued a new directive in the EEA that reflects these changes. The duties of Member States are now under strict obligation but previously required to ensure streamlining and consistent management of marine transport management in the EEA. This directive went into force in 2010 and was commissioned by the Icelandic government in 2014. It is very important that the law be changed to the Icelandic court according to our commitments under the EEA Convention. Finally, section V of the bill has proposed changes in transport accidents. A study of marine accidents is consistent in the EEA based on a directive for the study of marine accidents. This directive has been implemented in this country and operates on the transport accidents research committee accordingly. In 2016, representatives of the European Institute for Safety came on a field visit to Iceland to take out the work of the Committee. It was found that some of the directive's requirements were not adopted in this country and are now proposed to be reformed. A respectable president. I have explained the basics of this bill. I suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee and the 2nd discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u85	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his contributions and talks around this bill. In itself the answer may not be the correct description of my appearance here, but I just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to have a word with a minister on this matter. Of course, we'll take a closer look at the Environment and Transport Committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of these changes, e.g. For a passenger ship, i.e. whether it has been evaluated how it will affect the Icelandic ships and the environment we live in here, whether or not, what effect, just to guide us to work on a environmental and transport committee only. So, what will be the effect these changes will have on the business environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u86	A respectable president. It is our assessment that there are no significant changes in the environment of the Icelandic shipping organisations. Much more is involved in implementing the rules that we can say can be accepted in an international, international market, and there is a general agreement to serve in the future. We are primarily enforcing the law of regulations that are already being carried out in the following and in other cases some new aspects. So our assessment is that this will not have any significant effect in the shipping environment. This is primarily a direct introduction to issues found in the bill. As stated in the text earlier and I mentioned in my speech, we have actually tried to make a point of not repeating anything, not introducing something beyond the approved ones that we have accepted after, but it will then be in the presence of the committee to show after the case has been sent to state whether there is any comment that the committee considers as a reason to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, clear and clear answer. Only keeps asking him about the bill, making this opportunity as if he were a guest at a meeting of the environment and transportation committee. Really, it is only a similar question when it comes to flying traffic. This is a natural very detailed bill where you need to read through many layers to see the changes. But this regulation on technical requirements for air traffic management, how do they affect it in the country? It has often been a lack of, or has been said, of lack of a pilot. Does this change into their education and the environment in which they work? Only if I have a minister here to answer, because this is a reference to passenger boats and 12 passengers' standards. Does it come from these European rules, or is it something we are especially looking at here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u88	A respectable president. There are ships being taken for 12 passengers and fewer because the rules of the International Seagal Commission include ships bigger, so they're working on it. With regard to the air traffic controllers, today there is a peak of ages with regard to air traffic control. They have to stop when they're 60 years old. In fact, it is in the value of an extension law that a minister can apply to 63 years of age. We are disposing what requires that we set out clear rules regarding how we view appropriate individuals in order to work longer. This in itself is in general in line with what is developing in our society. Happily, health is good. These may be important active workers, who can be very desirable to stay in a job and do not have to give up because of some of the basic age rules. Rather, they take into account the level of responsibility that humans are able to fulfill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u89	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym which includes the idea that the Council of the Council of State would conclude to hide the Minister of the Interior to begin the preparation for the transfer of the National Revenge to the city of Rhines. My importers are down. Councilmen Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Ásmundur Friðriksson. The discussion of the Agency's transport to suitable and beds in the area of safety at Keflavík has lasted for some distances. According to the movers, many benefits come from transporting all operations of the Southnes to the area of safety on the Ásb bridge, which is already the National Guard with extensive activity in the area and thousands of squares of processed housing. A great advantage of having all the work done in one place is seen, and service and security will also increase as the response of the Land Guard is reduced by moving all of its activities. Also, the flight fleet of the Gestun will make a good future home that meets security standards. Former Minister of Internal Affairs, Ögmundur Jónasson, persuaded Deloitte to consider transporting Iceland's Motion Guard to the Southnesia. This was done in 2011. The date is dated April 14, 2011, and its conclusion is that translucency is expensive, including due to increased travel costs. Annual increase in driving costs, i.e. mileages and bus trips are reported to be 1,85.7 billion in the report. K. I doubt this number. Reports say that driving costs and miles per capitilary agreement and the SFR labour Convention, public service trade unions, show that driving to and from the Chefjordur airport calculates 30 minutes for each day. The right thing is that workers at the Keflavour Airport get 30 minutes overtime for driving, but they do not pay particularly for the cost of driving. They get themselves into and out of work. So these 30 minutes are actually part of a fixed salary. According to the report, agencies outside urban areas are also negotiated for travel costs for employees in general and are expected to pay for a mile. The fact is, this point is not applicable, Southnesin, not defined according to the above. So the Hostage crew at Keflavík Airport won't get those payments. The report says that regular bus trips are needed for all employees rather than for employees to drive themselves. I don't quite understand this conclusion, because as the previous article says, the employees of the hotel at Keflavour Airport who live in Reykjavík do not get paid for driving today. Therefore, the cost of a bus ride should be 21.7 million. K. if it isn't necessary? It is estimated that the annual cost of driving and mileing would be 124.9 million. K., which is expected to be 1◯2 billion. K. on you. The sources I have considered this plan completely unrealistic. There is no payment on collective agreements before driving to and from work in the case of recent recruitments. Another focus on the review is that according to reports, the Southnes will not work for the future and that the current staff will not be moving to the area at any given time. I think it's a bit of a negative approach. The Southnes Association is very good, and I am convinced that when people begin to serve there, at least much of the staff feel that living near the station is more convenient. Also, there is someone in the staff who is always there, so I think it's realistic that if the Hostage is moved to the city of Rhines, more Southnes will apply for work there. So my conclusion is that the cost of driving would be far less than expected in this 2011 report. Another factor in the report that has a significant impact on the cost of operating is the transfer of land cover air space and the changes in its operations. If transport is to be performed, the current back-up structure of the department would have to be converted to the local setting. That would require a 50% increase in pilots. It should be noted, however, that with the adjustment of the watch arrangement, the speed of the attack of pilots is greatly reduced. Today, people are awake, and the time for response is 30 minutes, but it will only take a few minutes if people were there. So that's where we're talking about extra security. The environment is accompanied by an increase in cost, not only by the number of employees, but also by increased use of instruments and increased maintenance of them. However, the authors point to the following, which I believe to be a very important point in terms of future policy development, with the permission of a president: For a longer time, it is wise to be on hand, and it is generally practiced in other nations than because of the expense and lack of specialized staff, this has not been possible in the Marine Corps. This is what we need to change, and this is what we can change, not maybe today or tomorrow, but we can certainly make our long - term plans. I'd like to point out with regard to the duration of call that it is very well possible, since the three choppers are now having one helicopter located in the north, where there are very many radios in the east, which would also increase safety and support the quality of the hotel. The priorities of the report are that the cloud at Reykjavík's airport is correct in relation to the current flight fleet, which is long smiling. The cloud in Reykjavík has become too small, and there is no need to argue about it. The authors say, by permission of the President: Thus, the overall situation is good enough for a shorter period of time, but it would have to be improved in the long run, especially if there are plans for the growth of the activity. Besides, as we all know, there is a lot of uncertainty about the future of the city's Reykjavík airport, and we must take it into account as we take into account a future course regarding the National Guard. Internal Affairs has had a long-term plan for Iceland's National Reservation. If we are going to aim for having a local call at the mortgage, which would be part of the normal development of the Quality of Life, I would like to say that increasing the cost of operating would not be all at once necessary. You might, for example. see if it would be possible to provide a five - or - ten - year schedule for the transfer of the Gest. What I'm trying to point out is that I think this matter should be a shock to the fact that more factors than now are included in the long-term Legislation Programme. I'd like to protest a certain point on the report that's actually wrong, but it's coming, too. to bring other rescue workers to Reykjavík in certain cases, such as rescue crews, police, Special Forces, and search dogs. Now I ask: Have the editors no idea that in Southnes, there is a flourishing society with over 20,000 inhabitants? They have excellent firefighters and medical agents, doctors, a powerful rescue team, police and special force. Such statements reflect not only ignorance but also prejudice, and that is very bad. According to my data, the data of this report are largely derived from the National Protection Agency and Sigingament Institute, now a walking agency. In 2007, the National Guard personnel performed a report that promised to be an cost-and-effect project in connection with the opinion of Iceland's Marine Service to Cheflavour-Kroíkt. Very long. This report was performed at the time for the Department of Transport and was referred to by the transport of Reykjavík airport. Now I ask, Is this still valid? They're from 2007. I don't think so. In a recent study, some 40 people now operate under air - control, linked to all the air - defense information systems of NATO. However, the report does not mention that the National Guard is already running a number of structures in the safety area that are nothing or a little new. The report says that the costs of change in housing may be significant. That claim is false. Your household is in place and ready for use. Only maintenance, electricity, and heat need to be paid, but that cost is already payable to the United States. This is not rent money, but the facilities are now under the custody of the National Relations Guard. However, the report says, with the permission of a president: The cost of renting may be reduced where rent prices are lower in Southnes than in Reykjavík, but the situation is likely to increase substantially. This claim is false, based on ignorance. Once again, the National Guard already has a business home. This is not the cost of rent. By making better use of the welfare work, much more financial gain for the Kingdom would be gained. This is the large cloud of 12,200 square feet [12,200 square meters], refurbished in 2000 and used for airplanes, helicopters, and maintenance. These buildings have to be unremarkablely altered to suit the quality of the space. In this context, it is proper to point out the responsibility of the State to the Engineer Fund of the Atlantic Community for the maintenance and operation of human ethics. By transport to Southnes, the National Guard would have a good future residence and a much improved position. The National Guard is now scattered to rented homes in many places, including the safety area on Ásbek, as it is called. Enlargements may include e.g. not at Reykjavík airport, where the Air Force is now available for housing and housing at all places that are not suitable. On the other hand, in the security area, there is a position for all of the activity of the hotel. There are areas that can be adapted to the Agency's needs and that are well-being used by all the rural areas of the South. In the area, there is an excellent seaport, a northern harbor, a Cheflavor, and a cavefarve. Even now, the National Guard is responsible for the operation of a part of the Sacred Harbor, i.e. the section on the Clinic Fund of the Atlantic Community. Necessary changes at dock level are taken care of. Actually, she's from 2009. Maybe we need to examine her again. Location rejects from the safety point of view would improve with the present period where the shift ships would be cut short to enter the main territory of the Land Cover, i.e. the ocean around Iceland. As it is now, I have it from the Hostagens that it is often difficult to take orders from the harbor in Reykjavík. There are so many ships and narrower around them that they would be much quicker to go out either from Njardíkíkíkíkíkíkíkívívík. By integrating projects, the possibility of the National Guard's search and rescue in cooperation with neighboring nations will multiply, but the National Guard is already using the territory for that purpose. It has been up to the National Guard not to have any appropriate ports available in the South's search and rescue, security and protection, and protection and resource protection at neighboring institutions, most of which are military or agencies by the National Relations Council of the Community. The result of the 2011 assessment is controversial, including has been identified as not correct for its increase in costs, as reports the head of the report that there are some factors that are dependent on uncertainty. They also point out that the assessment is solely a financial impact, but it also needs to be assessed for security issues when determining a possible transport decision. I want to reiterate this, you see, it's very important. We're talking about security and an improved situation. We are not talking about, as some may think, increasing the number of job tools on Southnes because they've just become too many, there's plenty to be done there. We're thinking about the safety and welfare of the city. According to the 2011 report, the cost of operating is estimated to increase by 691 million. K. Year by year on an existing basis, the most expensive factor is a change in flying and driving costs. I seriously doubt these figures, as I have before in my speech. Reports also tell us that people in the South will not reach out for future services. That's very special, to say the least. Even now, many Southnes are serving in the area, and as far as I know, they are very happy to work for the National Guard and others may be able to add. I have already identified several major defects in this practical consideration. It is not all bad, but there are some things you need inside it, some of them changed, and others that are actually wrong. I believe I have shown that there is a need to have another such investigation, of neutral professionals, which would then be more detailed than the first and all components taken. I don't really understand that such an investigation has not been carried out together with work in the long-term policy of the National Guard. I would have thought it was natural for me to have been. I realize that money is not available at this time, but as I've mentioned earlier, this transfer of the Save Man could save the state money in the long run, increase the safety of the citizens, and new housing we already pay for business. The key is that people see the bigger picture and have a clear view of the future. By the transport of the National Guard to the Southnes, the State's government would make the National Guard an even more powerful institution for the benefit of all the people, a place for the work to be a far better and secure place for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of history. There are a few questions I wondered about. A senator because I felt that it called for an inspection of the overall picture and a practical consideration, but it does not work out. The Consolvement proposal goes on to conclude that the Council of Justice has decided to put the Minister of Justice in order to begin the transfer of the Landland Guard to the town of Rhines. This is different because practical consideration can well reveal that the operation is not to be transported to the town of Rhines. We've seen too many times that we've gone too soon when it comes to transporting the Kingdom stocks. We received news from the last day that we are still in a bar of flubber moving a Fish Room, where it was not for economic purposes and that we were not trying to examine the overall picture, but we were driving to transport it. I have to say, I have a bad feeling. Transporters are getting a little ahead of themselves by suggesting that the National Guard will simply be moved, given to the minister of Justice to be committed, but then, in other words, talk about the need for practical consideration. Why was it so hard? Is it not true that a senator would make practical consideration, not simply for the Agency to be moved?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u91	A respectable president. We can, for example, get involved in our language, our speech, our motive, and our reason. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Otttar's Óttarsson Proppér, but when I say that the transfer of the mortgage would be arranged, I would think that part of that job would have to look at the things I pointed at and went very carefully into my speech, especially those factors I've pointed to and given reasons for being directly wrong in the report, or grounds were wrong. I'd like to ask you what. A senator after the talk I gave earlier would not agree that the evidence for this matter is quite good. In my time, when I first delivered this case, I think it was three years ago, there went agile. Jónasson I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. He could at the time, you could look it up in the Senate documents, not shake the reasoning I mentioned in my speech earlier. I have exactly the same argument as then, it hasn't changed. It's very strong. It does not take much time to go over it again. I've never spoken for not moving the fortune south with a man and a mouse tomorrow. I am well aware that a lot of factors have to be considered before transfer begins. Getting ready for transport may well include performing a professional analysis of the situation before transfer and this is part of the long-term QA programme. That's not the way it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u92	A respectable president. In any case, it can be said that accepting preparation involves something other than making sure that it becomes reality. The question is, What must be done before it becomes a reality and when? I'm not ex-whipped. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. I love the good man, but rephrase his words in the talk chair does not seem to be a substitute for serious matters. At any rate, practical consideration has been made. I don't think it's going to get out of the way in a single speech in the II Parliament. It may be wise and good to know that in the end, the National Guard will be moved to the town of Rhines. I'm going to admit that I don't know, so I'd have to hear better in D.A. myself. I would need a detailed report that would be contrary to earlier practical observations and other such, or what? What I'm saying is that we should have learned from last year's mistakes, e.g. As for Fish Room, and we'll see what it's all about. A senator shakes his head right here. It is better to prepare as large a procedure as it is. Therefore, I feel that the conclusion of economic research in advance is not good scholars.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u93	V.E.G. President. I hear that me and what. A senator agrees almost completely because we agree that such adjustments need to be made very carefully. I won't belittle it. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator here, along with me to the south, see the guest, take care of things with them. I have done so many times. It's not a case I'm taking from the air and giving myself a basis for it. I've been working on it for years, working with the Hostage employees, part of them. Of course, there are disagreements in the house as well as in other areas. But it's not some matter I'm throwing here. It has years of prehistoric history before I arrived at the council. I hear what you're saying. A senator is interested in him, and it would be interesting for him to look at the house I already referred to, which is very wide - open. The facility is in place. There's a place where all the goose can be in the same place with every exercise area. These are the regular sessions of our cooperation, which the National Guard is participating in. We're all there as long as the Air Force has been severely pressed in Reykjavík. There is no future. The future is not in Reykjavík, if it is. A senator has visited the facility there. They're on leave with this place. It's completely unacceptable and long out of date. As I mentioned earlier, with the docks in Reykjavík, they are out of port for a long time. It would be much better for them to be in the rejections from south, they're much faster on the tickets. This is what it's all about, to keep citizens safe. Like I said and repeat, I'm not talking about getting off with a flubber and getting going. Let's take this in five or ten or fifteen years. [[The president calls.]] Let's just take it and keep driving it. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u94	A respectable president. I welcome this council mishap. My joy, however, is not to be understood to mean that in all respects the National Guard will be taken to the town of Smokeynes. I simply don't know the language well enough to make myself feel that way. I trust, however, that if it is to remain, it will be done at the end of a very fundamental view on the whole side of the situation so that we do not get other examples like that. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé refers to an organization that was exported to the country, in fact to my home country. It should be possible for the assessment to take. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir here had many comments about her years, so I think there's a good reason for a new assessment. The Senator also mentioned the possibility of locationing a helicopter north of Akureyri. I have to admit, I'm a little bit off the hook, so I'm shutting down, with the permission of the president. I think we need to look at the role of the D.A. in a larger context, then I'm going to use not only the usual calls she performs at all times, but also emergency transport. I know very well that it does not mean moving patients with helicopters across Iceland unless they have an equal dose equipment, etc. But I think this may be something worth considering in the big context of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the body is happy that he has a positive attitude toward this matter. And that's a good point about the hospital flight. Since I had no more than 15 minutes to review the matter earlier, I released them from the talk. That's exactly what I need to take into consideration. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppé agrees that there is a need to be performed, i.e. taking the possible cost-effective effect into the equation. I was talking about flying and changing the backicle structure into an arrangement. It would require increasing the number of members of Congress... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it doesn't need to increase the number of pilots. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's a very good point as hell. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynphelfsson noted, to examine this aspect of the patient's flight. I think there's been some written inquiry at the last council since then. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter, who asked for information on the number of sickly calls in different areas. That was precisely true in response to a minister at the time that the majority of calls were north and east, on the Middle East, I think. It was very obvious. I say one thing doesn't have to rule out another thing in this case. Although the weekend service would be located south, it can well be imagined that a helicopter would be located in the north. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u96	Thank you. A senator resists. It's all about all kinds of large contexts. I'd like to point out this opportunity to February 2nd. I asked the secretary of transportation and unit for a response to the closure of an emergency circuit. That's why I'm a little bit of an amateur...... thattheSecuritiesMightbe close to medical transportation. There I asked the minister, by permission of the president: ▪ What measures will a minister take to deal with the closing of a so - called airway (NA/SVV) in the city of Reykjavík, which has led to an adverse weather situation it is impossible to land an ambulance near one of the nation's high - tech hospitals? I have not yet received any answer, which reminds me that the minister should answer within 15 active days, I think, but there is now another arm. But that's exactly where we're talking about things hanging on the same stick.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u97	V.E.G. President. It'll be interesting to see the answer from a minister when it fights. I agree with a certain senator that it is time for a minister to answer. I encourage him here to answer. paritaprevir The Einar Brynjólfsson of Brynphelf because I'd like to see what he has to say on this matter. This is very important. Finally, I'm not going to have this any further, but again and again I want to reiterate that the matter is primarily about safety. This isn't what some people want to call a ballot, it's not about that. The fact is, the situation exists in this area of defense. It's already about 50 people on the sheep's road. There is no interest in fluclasty, and as we all know, there is a great increase in money available to the sheepfold. We discussed this when we finished the budget here before Christmas, and it should be our common goal. A survey by the Icelanders has shown that the National Guard is the highest trust in Iceland. That's what we need to do well. A long - term plan on the Landland Guard shows that the fleet and things that may not be the best way to improve. I think major factors have been excluded in the overall context. I ask that this case be taken carefully and with an open mind because I believe that it would be in our best interests that it be brought south to better facilities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The safety of the people of the land would be even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u98	A respectable president. I thank you for the second answer. I'm just gonna keep this brief. Clearly, all three of us agree. I think there's so much harmony in these three groups that we can fit into our arms below. Maybe we should. But it's about life and limb. It's about the safety of the citizens. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u99	A respectable president. I recommend the following Parliamentary arrangement for housing of Iceland's Art University, with permission of the President: ▪ The General concludes to hide the minister of education and culture in terms of the future residence of Iceland's Art University, thus permanently solving the housing problems that the school has experienced for a long time. In addition, the movers are here. The members of Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Lóra Mccarthy, Helgadóttir Mogensen, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, Logi Ingiberg Guðmundsson, Guðrún Jónsdóttir, Sisís Svavarsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Ávún Ásta, Einarsson, Thordjörður Sunnar Ævarsdóttir Övótir Övótir and Logálálóni. In 1999, Iceland's art school was founded with different schools, including them. Music, art, design, art. The goal was to bring in an art lesson in Iceland at a university and to promote cooperation between these articles. In this regard, the unity has succeeded in its success. The art school has contributed to innovation, integration of art, and a key role for creative articles. The art school offers a wide range of studies, a total of 18 courses in five departments. The design and architecture department has four pathways to BA degrees, architecture, clothing design, graphic design, and design, as well as master's design. The field art department has three highways to BA degrees, stagetracks, actors' track and social dances, as well as international field arts. Art textbooks offer master studies in art classes and diplomats for teaching rights. The art department offers three years of studies in BA degrees and two years of master's studies. The music department has three years of study in B.Mus and BA degrees. There is also a dipolé for musical and master's studies in the arts of the MA degrees and in creation, the sharing and pioneering to M.M.M., degrees. Despite the wonderful promise initially, Iceland's art school is an elbow child of the Icelandic university family. The amount of work being carried out in a variety of suitable facilities, not to be taken deeper in the year. It is not enough that the facilities are not always suitable for the operation but are likely to be safe in some cases, as discussed in these last days and weeks have shown. The bioavailability of motor disasters is bad, to say the least. In the last ten years, the cutting knife has been in place even though there was nothing to cut. They are the few reports and the reviews that have been written on the economic impact of creative articles. One such piece, entitled Map of the Economic Effects of Trends, developed in 2011, reported that 5.2% of the year's work in the Icelandic labour market in 2009 was associated with culture and creative articles, which were at that time exactly the same ratio as in agriculture and sea soil combined. I wouldn't be surprised that this ratio increased in the meantime. This report also shows that the contribution of these articles to total transport intake in 2009 was about 3%, corresponding to approximately 24 billion back then. It is clear, therefore, that strong support for Iceland's National Institute of Art, including In the form of a suitable home, these articles will provide additional support. It is obvious that working in one place before making housing would make a big difference for students and staff. The success would be more practical, more communication, and, above all, a study result for the more promising people who attend the school. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend my case any further, and I'm not going to wish that this Congress resolution is going to go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u100	A respectable president. On short notice, I decided to leave my voice in order to present myself to this proposal with a complete mind. I see that there is no senator of the Agency with an importer, but that does not mean that the advance party does not support this fine proposal. Like what? A candidate in his speech has made a significant contribution to the future for the career and our participation in international markets and competition, since we have a good study of creative articles in this country. I couldn't have heard any more of last night's special discussions. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was a perfunctory, but all the members of the council agree on the importance of building under creative branches and having the environment for innovation, so that especially smaller and medium-sized enterprises have a real future here in a hard international competition, with various factors that are rather disturbing for us, such as gang swings and distances from markets. Which makes us quite difficult. Therefore, it has so much to say that the State will meet the companies with specific measures, such as, tax environments, but also that studies are available and that equipment and the development of creative study are good because of the fact that human resources are here. We have a lot of talented people who have this spark inside them, and they see the opportunities and possibilities, and they have a lot of energy. We have good teachers who burn for their work. But at the same time, Iceland's art school is about to collapse. We discussed the situation of Iceland's National Institute of Art. The budget for Christmas, when we went over that case. We also agreed there in each category that we would need to pay more attention to this important school than has been done. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynfeld's son came into the house when the house was completely unannounced. It's uncivilable. There's an impassable operation. It is not a bioavailability for disabled and total uncertainty for those who are trying to do their best to keep the school going where there are no long - term plans. I'm going to say here that I want to commend the school directors for their success in working within very narrow frames so far. This is so encouraging when people feel understanding and well - meaning, but school has been left behind. I wanted to make this matter very good, and I support it. Our future prospects are in building under the National Institute of the Arts of Iceland and preparing for creative articles here in the United States. That's where our country's income goes for the future. We live on fish and other things, that's one thing, and that's good, and now the tourists. But a wide variety of employment, a source of strength, is what we need. We must not remain behind in today's competition. The nations are now taking their place and making their own plans for innovation. I studied in my speech yesterday that Icelandic companies today have a difficult environment for development. If we don't decide to build on creative branches, we'll be left behind and employed, because in the days of internationalization, people are very easily divided between countries. Icelanders who want to work on creative branches are just different, that's no problem. So we have to have a good art university, and we have to have a good environment for creative articles and big and small innovation companies in Iceland if we are to have a future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u101	A respectable president. It's not exactly an answer, but I felt compelled to come up here and say how happy it is to hear the noise. A senator says what she said. It seems that there has come a very cross - political understanding and will toward this cause and cause, not just among members of Congress, but even in the matter of Ministers of the last days. We've come to some understanding. Just as I like to agree with it. A senator said how urgent this is about the loss of good people to foreign lands, and they become a cover - up. I wanted to say that it's really fun to hear this and it's obviously looking to a better time for art and culture in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u102	V.E.G. President. That's just the way it is. It's nice to have a good time. A senator wanted to come up against me and declare it. I'm not going to have a lot of words, but I'm going to say that we have to hold on to the ball. It's in the hands of us senators. We're sitting at the General Assembly, and we're being watched all day, every day, in these television cameras and the media, and in the media. If we keep this case up and talk about it regularly, not even and so, we'll see changes, and I'll believe it. There's our golden opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u103	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir that this is a very good thing. That is why I feel a little lost to see that the government's situation is one of the things that are important to me to be here in the hall. I would have liked to see a member of the government party take an interest in the case, but it is obvious that it is not. It does not take long to learn about the state of the Art Institute for Disappointment. His condition shows that there is a high cost, total uncertainty, mold, a failure-sustaining situation, poor sex, lack of audio shutting, hostile space, the art code in a slaughterhouse, no access to the disabled, and uncertain whether the school is getting sufficient funds. This tells you that things are pathetic and totally paralytic. There are students who pay nearly half a million a year to work and learn to mold and abhor. We should, in effect, let these people attend their studies for free. If we can't do better, it's a scandal to be generally charged with the study. This is particularly serious about the poor availability of motor functions. People cannot be educated to a list if they are in a wheelchair, which naturally means that learning access is not equal. Similarly, if they are sensitive to mold, they cannot attend the school. On October 25, 2016, a celebration at the University of the Arts described the situation, saying that there would be no pleasure in the same situation. Still, they were made to do so. Again, I would like to mention just how disappointed I am from the apathy shown by art. I believe the art has placed Iceland on the map. The tourists are here because our artists called attention to us. Artists are worthy of a decent situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. The primor for his input and this motion. During the last term, I had the privilege of visiting the Art Institute as a financial representative. There we received an excellent presentation of the facilities and the activities and the like. Of course, it is very sad that from 1999 onward, after all these years, we will still be in this position. 18 years later, we are still in a position that does not meet the requirements for school and work, and the school has actually always been a mere elbow child. This is reflected in financial matters when you examine them far back in time when the school has been an elbow child. We were given ideas of very interesting drawings. Then there were two things that had been discussed. I remember one of them was the Land Banker's house on the other side. I would have enjoyed seeing it become reality; I thought it was an amazing idea to have the school in the middle of town at such a high point. I saw the entire creation moving on, not just the council, but the immediate surroundings, and it would have been a bit fun to see this beautiful old house embrace that function. I don't think that's going to be the end of it. This does not change that when the decision is made to unite the Drama School and the Old Arts and Guidebook School, the idea was that these articles would use support from one another and would be even more productive than either. Sadly, we still face the fact that this has not been achieved as if it had been done. Much has been discussed, and the nature of the matter, according to the health of the house. We've seen pictures on TV, and as I said, I went to visit, and we got to see the situation. A man's hands failed to watch this. We went there for 2015, to remember, and things haven't been right. Molds have developed in many areas, with or without, rent or rent - the Kingdom and its city. Besides that, school housing is not for disabled people. We went to photograph a little halibut. It is clear that the facilities do not meet the requirements for school activities. It is something special that we would actually accept as a council that this is the case. It's nice to relate what's stated in a review from the head of the Union of Icelandic artists at the 2016 budget, that despite lack of equipment and circumstances, Iceland's National Institute of Arts received the highest possible score in the record of the Icelandic Presidency of 2015. Of course, that's quite an exercise, considering. That year the students were in the fifth hundred. So they lived up to the amount of money the school was going to get for 2016, i.e. Nine years from the beginning - that was 70 students in 2007 and the amount received by the school on the last budget, i.e. 2016 not 2017, was the same at present as that year. It shows respect for a number of students. By then, master - school courses had even been added to the traditional design, art, stage art, art, and music, which are not really being paid for. And they need staff, they need teachers, staffed teachers. During a ten - year period between 2007 and the year this year, there have been only two standard levels of staff staff staff. It's not the norm with the number of students. But we know and know that this article and activity, like others, has a heavy cost, some 70% of the cost of operating, and maybe about 20% of the cost of housing, we will see what remains. I'm sorry, but that's a lot of the way it is. During the last term, we spoke repeatedly to the Art University, especially in the preparation of budgets. Despite the fact that the committee, a large part of it, did not all go to visit and see the situation, they observed the wonderful work being done there. We arrived there in the middle of a work day and found out what was going on, but somehow it did not return to the school. I have to agree with the question why university art studies are only open to high school costs. Other universities do not have the same experience, i.e. Official universities. That's what we're talking about, too, about an automaton. We can also wonder why we have the only school to do this in that form, why would we not want to be more supportive of him? I think we need to try to get that suggestion through here, that there will be a conclusion that school will be prepared for some future house. As for Saturday, the mind has stood there. There is nothing to wait for this work to be carried out. As I said before, there are some plans, there is a design. In fact, we do not have enough money to keep it going. The case is expected to be for the General and Education Committee. I really hope that this case will work out and be taken care of as everyone first because it is only hiding the highest. Minister of Education and Culture to require the future residence of the Art University. I think he should be able to do that in view of all the data and all that there is. He's supposed to be able to make that political decision. It's about the courage to make that political decision. I sure hope that's the case. Whether we succeed in this storm or not, we will continue to fight on behalf of the school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u105	A respectable president. I appreciate the support of all of them. senators who have spoken up today. You're right. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says, this is about political decision, strength, and courage and nothing else. The problem is, it is more difficult to measure success and profit from art and creative articles than from many other articles. It's just that way. We are always inclined to view the sizes that are fixed and easy to measure. It is easy to figure out how much money a trained dentist will pay for, for example, educated buildings, etc. There are much simpler and predictable sizes there. Sadly, we always fall victim to the danger of allowing the articles I have spoken for getting a place to live. I'm hoping this case will get started. It may be an unnecessary optimism for the newborn, but who knows what will happen? Finally, I would like to repeat my thanks to those who have supported me here in word. I hope that the time will come when it will come to supporting that word in word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u106	President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct any change in media law, No. 38/2011. Besides me, transporters are cool. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Björn Leví's Gunnarsson, and finally his father. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir. It may be possible before you think this bill has been delivered several times, i.e. was first brought to the 143th legislature, then brought back to the 144th Parliament, with five different members of the WG but also members of the United States, Independence, and Fundamental Affairs. When the case had been measured in its own time, it went to the General and Education Committee that asked for 21 references, but the case is built up to add 30 p.m. The law of the new court that says, by permission of the President: ▪ Intermediate images should always be followed in Icelandic text reflecting the text of the audiocassette as accurately as possible. Eight people sent a review and divided it into two corners. On the other hand, representatives of the hearing - impaired and spokesmen of human rights who considered great and foreordaining rights are involved, but from the media committee and 365 media services were pointed to the costs of the project and were put in place information that could make it easier and easier to do so. The matter, not resolved at the 144th legislature, was submitted 145, but it was not completed. Still, the potential for hearing and deaf people has not been altered to exploit the products of photon mediums proposed in the bill. That is why they are reassigned with the report to the same extent. Of course, it has to be said that this is as much about a population of Iceland where there are people who don't speak the first language and who can choose to use texts to support understanding spoken language as well as the way to study the Icelandic language. I think we all know who have been abroad for some time that text is often in support of spoken material. The change in the media law that the bill would include if it became a law about the existence of TV servers without regard to whether it is available in Icelandic or foreign languages. Now it is a mandatory texting if the material is in a foreign language. The change is made in order to make the TV audiences that benefit, and here are called particularly hearing impaired, i.e. Sign - language people who usually speak otherwise and do not enjoy English through hearing or hearing impaired, a vast number of Icelanders. There may not be enough room for a group of elderly people to think about how large a hearing impairments are and would accept lyrics to enjoy domestic television. According to 29. The law on this subject is the media only obliged to text foreign materials that they broadcast. For 30th. However, by permission of the president, the media agencies are encouraged to make their services available to visual and hearing impaired, as well as those who live in the development field, by sign language, and audio, while the media services are not required in this regard. This is in accordance with Article 7. III. in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of March 10, 2010, which states that Member States, by permission of the President, are expected to include the media services under their jurisdiction to ensure that their services will gradually be made available to the sight or hearing-sensitive persons. Such encouragement is not known from the Icelandic government, but a media committee has certainly made comments when a foreign - language magazine has been sent out without Icelandic talk or text. In a comment, we're at 30r. The bill submitted to the Council of the 139th Council of Justice, which became the law of No. 38/2011, it should be noted that the provision of the media services to provide light - stimulus or to make it available for these groups in other ways. There are no guidelines for sending out programs without making arrangements to make them available for hearing impaired people or people with other needs to make use of such available in Icelandic. In section 4.3.1 of comments on the media song, there is an effort to explain the origin and importance of the bill rooted in this European Parliament directive and the Council discussed here. The Regulation that EU and EEA member countries should encourage their media services in their legislation to make it available should be understood as, in the opinion of the authors, that the Member States should be informed of self-monitoring and therefore Member States should set up their own rules on the information that the article points to the extent at which they are authorized in their legal system. We are, in effect, committed to following those priorities. The TV, the public and publicized media, has established a language policy, as is reserved for an Icelandic language policy called the Icelandic to all, as agreed at the General Assembly in 2009. Article 2.6 of this seminar deals with signing and texting, which says, with the permission of a president: The needs of the deaf, the deaf, the deaf, and those who do not have a native language should be considered by offering sign - language translations and the texting of a national television program as much as possible. There may be a key line in this, as far as possible. Is this in accordance with the law on The State Radio, a public curator, where it is reserved for hearing impaired access, by President, a public media service with a textation of news and other television programs, to broadcasts in sign language and/or other means for this purpose, and to be consistent with technical possibilities at any given time, which, of course, is limited in a certain sense. The radio is now recording all preexisting television programs as well as television news times. TV programs sent out directly, such as Cast light and weekly national discussions, are not texted. In 2012, texting on page 888 increased from 303 hours to 408, or 35%, so it is clear that this service is being greatly increased. During the July 2013 issue of July 2014, the text was sent out by an international text for a 790 hour text, increasing by 13.6%. It is a service that may not be clear to us most of us who just use our hearing to study the Icelandic language, but it is also available through a textcast on page 888 more and more. In this way, RUSH actually strives to follow this legal role in deaf and deaf users and, of course, in line with law in Icelandic languages and Icelandic Sign Language, which says that Icelandic Sign Language should be as relevant as native language and must be able to make available to those who do not enjoy it through hearing. Other photon servers only foreign matter. Thus, hearing impaired individuals have very limited benefit from their broadcast in Icelandic. Other television media, but RIV has not established a language policy and text that has not been broadcast in Icelandic. It is clear, therefore, that this emphasis on texting in the media law has only been limited, as previously stated, that companies are expected to provide this service where possible. Texting TV material in their mother tongue as the broadcast is primarily designed to make these groups, deaf and deaf people in the area where they can enjoy the material where possible. Also helpful are the lyrics of a television text reading, as we have considered in the past, to foreign people who are unable to speak English but who prefer to monitor the local media. Since the media play an important part in community life, it is vital that as many as possible enjoy what they are doing. It may well be said that the media are an important factor in ensuring that an Icelandic community responds in an acceptable way to immigrants and by making the media more accessible. There is no accurate record of how many Icelanders are hearing impaired but based on foreign studies it can be expected that at least The population is suffering from some loss of hearing in some way. We, a respectable president, could be talking about between 30 and 40 thousand people at least. Hearing loss can develop at any time during life, but hearing gaps are among those of high age and are far more common in older people than in young people. More and more Icelanders reach a high age, and the percentage of the elderly increases from year to year. On December 1, 2014, nearly 9% of the population were 70 years of age or older, while Iceland's Habitat Office estimates that by 2020 this proportion will be 10.2% and 13.7% in 2030. While some technical and medical resources are useful in over the years, it is expected that people who need text will be able to enjoy TV broadcasts in Icelandic countries will be increasing in the coming years and decades, and there is every reason to respond. A respectable president. I'd also like to explain, because there may be someone who thinks this case is out of shape with another thing that has been discussed here on Icelandic status in a digital world, that this is, of course, a case that's going into a full arm with those views. As the tongue technique spreads, even mechanically the texting of television at the same time increases. In this way, we are talking about an even greater potential for a texting without a significant cost. It also hangs on that we use language technology in a handsome way, support Icelandic language in a digital world, and thus increase the possibility that as many as possible can enjoy a television program in the Icelandic language. A respectable president. I'm assuming this case goes on to what? The General and Education Committee, and, of course, hope that there will be successful progress. I now understand from the members of the council I've mentioned this matter in a tunnel following the fact that there is more support for it than there are in a number of missions or representatives. It's a good thing that shouldn't be different from transverse, is improving society, makes it more open, and increases the ability of all to participate. Well, that's the vision I hope we most share, i.e. that society is accessible to as many people as possible regardless of the economy, habitats, and other factors that will make us more successful in a wide variety of society. This case is presented for that purpose. Of course, I hope, a respectable president, is doing well here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u107	Madam President. I'm going to give this matter a minute. I was on a full-scale educational committee when it was moved last, and we had a guest over the case. I'm not going to say that they're not in favor, because they didn't tell the bill at the time. I had the privilege of being at a council when Icelandic Sign Language was accepted as the first language of deaf and deaf, good if I wasn't a member of that language at the time. At any rate, I have every reason to encourage comment, I suppose the media committee and the big media, 365 media, and other smaller media media are involved. Not too many, however, returned a review of the matter last time. However, I had a conversation with a representative from the smaller media who was deeply concerned about the cost. Perhaps there is reason to push them into the discussion of the matter because we know that this is a very complex project, and it is very costly. Last submitted, 365 media provided an estimate that the cost was around 20 to 25 million each year. That's a lot of money. There is reason to encourage those in the community who are going to come up with debates to promote ideas for solutions. Is it possible for us to do this in a step or something like that because this is a burdensome and intense change? Like what? There are many more peers than those who have always belonged to a group of deaf or deaf people. There are also older ones and others who have lost hearing over the years and beyond their years. The press committee also gave a fine report on the matter last time, pointing to these expense supplies and to the point of texting the entire subject. It says, by permission of the president, in the 30th chapter. Law on the media: If the media is providing footage, as much as possible seek to make their services accessible to visual and hearing impairments as well as to those living in development disorders. Resources to ensure bioavailability include Signing, texting, and audio description Directive 30 gr. based on law three. c in the European Union's Directive on audio and image sharing, which is now 7.g. in the audio and image media command. It says that Member States should: the hosts of the media services under their jurisdiction to ensure that their services will gradually be made available to people who are seeing or hearing less than they are. In fact, a media committee has no resources to handle fines or such matters, but you do not want to do so; you prefer that this work be done in harmony with those who render the ministry. But it simply says that this should take place gradually until the text is all in place. 365 media requested this, e.g. that sports games would be excluded. True, there may be something that can be reconciled in the first step or in any way. But of course, we should always seek that all of this can be done. This is exactly what a media board points out, and it is a review that shows that the implementation of a textual program can be varied. As we know, what is not on the air is often the text ahead of time, and it is not an option to deal with it. It says, by permission of the President: The transmission of materials by live transmission is carried out either by means of speech analysis or by technology known as the English form of stenography (s) or by the English language text or real - time text. Using speech analysis, it is suggested that the employee re-enacts the spoken language to a microphone, as it is interpreted by a computer program and applied to written words that appear on the screen at the same time. A text text with a real-time text signal suggests that an employee types a copy symbol into a computer program that overrides the symbols in written words as displayed on the screen. It is shown that there is some kind of technology to do this. No doubt it costs a lot, and it can also be wondered whether the State should provide specific support to the media that is required of this obligation, the cost of induction, or something like that, in order to get it started, but I'm not going to say anything about it. At least I think it's very important that we do this and not rule out that the state will bring some counter measures. I think technology's going so fast. We heard on the radio that we could talk to our tools in the kitchen, that we would be working apps that would enable us to speak Icelandic to our appliances, and other tools. I don't think it in itself is as far from us as it looks. For example, when interviewing with non-concerned members of the Parliament, a direct interview with them is made. You know, it can be tricky to have a subtitle on the same occasion, but I think technology exists. No doubt it costs something, but it also requires maintaining a small language. It takes a nation like us to have our own language. First and last, it focuses on the human rights of those who have only a fraction of the information available, whether radio or television media or what they are, because they do not hear. Visual matter can certainly be enough in many ways, such as. In sports games, that can do it. But if you think about it for yourself, I'm gonna watch a football game afterwards, and I don't really know how I thought he was silent, not as fun as I suppose. The question, though, is whether a word is translated or whether it is drawn somehow. We're supposed to find ways to do this. It's human rights. We must be able to find solutions to this without a business going over, because that is not what is being suggested, but only to strengthen the position and guarantee the individual rights of the group on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-09-42.u108	A respectable president. There are many barriers in society whether there are barriers that do not allow the access of wheelchairs to their homes or to any other. This is one of them, people who have difficulty hearing or understand Icelandic language do not necessarily like people who have a native language. Countless groups do not have complete access to the media and, in particular, the media content, which is often the most important subject to community involvement. This is a news - based subject more often than not, the topic of discussion, and the news lesson itself. These are the aspects of the photon media that are most relevant to the democracies of people. So I'm afraid that as a council, we will find solutions to eliminate these obstacles. As mentioned, technology is more expensive and realistic than often before. Whether this case is approved or not, language technology must be developed so that hope can be developed in a digital world. This case, to read Icelandic material on television, is just a little smell because we do everything we can to use the language technology to defend and support English into the future. Too long there has been a fingernail cut to finance. It is not, of course, discussed in this matter, but hopefully this development will be allowed to continue together because it will only support this project. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir because of the nature of the case over the General and Education Committee last, the viewpoints presented there, and the ideas of solving the approach she brought, which I will take with me to the committee after this discussion. I hope that we can get together as much as possible to advance this issue so that we do not need much longer to see that the only Icelandic news on television is those that the editor of the media decides to have special business with deaf people but that we will be associated with people who need texts recognized in all matters, not just those who especially touch hearing.
