ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u1	A respectable president. We're going to try to finish this discussion, and I want to review what we've talked about. At first, we've talked about what's supposed to be in policy. In general, economicism will cover the scope and survival of the government for the next five years. It is to deal with the development of property, debt, and long - term commitments. At the latest, there should be a paper that explains why economicism meets the baseline values covered by government law. Now, however, financial policy was introduced at the beginning of the council and has been involved for two months in the council. All the members of the committee expected to make adjustments during financial policy, since there are many things they need. For the next five years, a better explanation is needed. It is slightly overlooked in terms of the greater part, but not clearly enough. When there is a lack of reference to policy, the committee's opinion does not explain much what the policy says. If she doesn't say anything, there's not much to explain. Also missing long-term commitments, further information on them. Their status is discussed, not what the policy is about the problems we face there. It ends up in a policy discussion of its baseline values, which are explained at baseline, what they mean almost according to a dictionary. It has baseline self-sufficiency, caution, stability, fixation and transparency. I can't see how they explain how their direction meets them in any intelligent way. There's been talk of how to win the financial policy. That's where I made a comment on the subject here. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for having participated in the discussion. It was extremely important. Once again, I would have wanted the government and other ministers to come and explain how financial policy builds up a framework set by the government covenant. Where can the government covenant be found in financial policy until the next five years? Where are the focus on health and education? We didn't get any of that. Besides what's not in financial policy, what's in it inspires my attention. These include Part III: All irregular and uniting funds in the state's funds are spent to speed up the debt even further. This is an enormously open situation. My guess is it will be very difficult to enforce it over the next five years. This is going to cause trouble. Also, we've had a little time to look at what the financial programme contains, which was supposed to be in financial policy. However, it is always difficult to enforce that policy, so it is designed to reevaluate each year. The safety principle would likely prevent it from being overhauled, but it is never known. If there is no anchor in policy itself that holds firm in the budget, there is nothing to say that policy cannot be changed when financial planning is next revised. Finally, I wanted to say that under the laws on public finances, it is a great deal about the surveillance of the Generals. I think it's odd that at the Council we're monitoring the European Commission, which also provides us with information on what it is doing. We cannot keep an eye on those who tell us how they work. We have to have something bigger and more objective to maintain the European Commission if we are to perform our surveillance work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u2	Madam President. We're about to complete a discussion on finance policy. We recommended, some senators, that we see the plan before we closed our course. Now it's happened. The plan was published Friday. For the first time, I feel that it was justified to seek it. It confirms that there will be an unsurpassed increase. It confirms that the development of the government's infrastructure is not being established. And unfortunately, the government is underlining the requirements set out in the budget that we have discussed very much on policy coverage. It is, in fact, stiffer than Bjarni son of Benediktsson as financial and economic minister. The next year, 2% of well-connected resources are being used except for health and aging institutions. They're talking about high school and college, and all the things we've been worried about when we've been discussing this course. It's four times more strict than it would have been according to an existing government policy. As a reminder, according to an overview on page 5. 5 and 6 in the Justice Department, in the community, in the community, in the community, in the tourism, in the high school system, in the university system, and in housing support. I'm going to go through this a little bit better just to understand it better. It'll even come. to meet the cumulative decline in GDP will be less than 29 billion to and by the year 2022, with a cumulative hold of about 90 billion and the combined consumption will increase as a proportion of GDP. All of this has been our discussion with the development of the policy. That is also shown on page 22. 54 in the financial programme, under the winners and prices proposals for economic change, which says, by permission of the President: In line with average percentage increases in labour markets expected to exceed inflation over the period. The improvement in the range of improvements is based on 3.1% and 4.8%. This means that those who need relief are far below the minimum wage increase. It can mean that the status of a pensioner is getting worse. This must require that we consider the course we are considering. We're being locked up with a charge roof and a set pace in subsidies instead of not having this fee paid for at least, and so the credit card is made way too stiff. It goes down to 30% of the requirements of Level 7. law on government finances and no need to do so. Especially when calling for a global structure is urgent, whether it is health, aging, school, or road system. It is a disgrace to see what the road transport system is getting through the financial agenda. As I said earlier today, I sure hope that the media only watch this plan and not be fooled by numbers. I'm going to criticize it even though it's not under consideration here, but it's the same thing as it's been said we haven't had in 2017 as a reference of pills here. We asked for it last time, and we didn't get through now, either. The course is to lock us up in this great venture that I don't think is good. We're still paying taxes. They are being preached again and again instead of making the best of their time. I'm sorry, but I can't help but worry that I'm not sure that the members of the major body of Congress could figure out exactly what they're expected, most of them, to agree, I suppose, because, of course, they all have to agree on this to work. Because already the Ministry of Economics and Economics has made us aware of an estimated 11 billion dollars. superrunning this year. It's already out, and we're just back in April. Which means that this is a financial item, although it is said in a program, that it is based on an existing position with addition to what was done in budgets. It is clear to me that this strategy cannot quite depend on the enormous numbers that these groups are taking at the beginning of the election. [[The president calls.]] The course is what frames it in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u3	A respectable president. I am about to make a second comment in this financial discussion, and I may not have many words about it. However, I would like to say that this discussion has been very interesting. Not just for you who are obedient but for us who are here and participate in it. We are, as others have mentioned, dealing with a new way of working on government issues, financial laws. We work under the new laws on public finances that were approved last year. The financial policy is one of the frameworks we are trying to work according to in order to achieve better financial discipline and long - term maintenance. We set a frame to five years of age, which we consider to be very prospective. While other nations might object, we talk about long - term plans, saying that five years are not particularly long. But we're following our first step. Somewhere we have to start. I heard from somewhere that when the Swedes took up this work song, they took ten years to internalize it. We're winning these things very fast. For members of Congress, it is a challenge to have to put themselves in the new thought in such a short time. I suppose we're going to cut this methodology down and sharpen the method of work that we use to achieve those practitional goals we need. But all of us are willing to make and try to do our best. It's a challenge. As for these highly educated financial policies, I would like to reiterate what I have said before in my discussion. For example, as a member of the Organizational Congress, we have criticized her for being unrealistic in her community. The financial policy assumes that rural development goals are met by rural areas, i.e. reaching out to pay off debt, which is very farfetched in my opinion, especially in view of the fact that many rural areas are still relatively poor economically. I speak for my community, Smokeytown. This community is recovering from debt, working on it, and doing well. At the same time, however, there is a huge population growth in the countryside, which means an increased demand for construction of infrastructure and increased investments. How should such a community respond at the same time to these demands for survival goals? It's not possible. There, the government gets a GPA, to assume that this is possible. Another thing that my associates have mentioned in previous talks, and I'd like to emphasize, is the impossible possibility of paying off debt as quickly as plans assume at the same time as this great need for infrastructure. How can you praise an interior structure at the same time that you are going to pay off debt at such an rate? We've suggested paying off debts - we're paying very high interest every year - but we might have to step down for at least a few years while we're getting involved in the infrastructure. We have identified transportation, health systems, and education systems that are urgent. We all agree on that. The production is highly deficient. I would also like to emphasize that as well. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned earlier. For example, there is no overview of the development of possessions as required by the law. Nothing about investment policies that are not good at all and that are certainly not designed to build trust and gain long - term perspective, which is the purpose of the law. This is critical. The pressures of new taxes, such as social health taxes, return fees, and other possibilities that I think must be on the table in the big context have to be considered. You can't say: We're going to pay off the debt of the state, go on massive infrastructure, and not add to any taxes. It just doesn't make sense. This is critical. But last - I promised not to talk long - it's two more things, and it's about the banks. V.E.G. A financial minister has been asked many questions as to what he intends for the sale of banks, since we are accepting a five-year course. If the bank sells, it'll have a huge impact on the state funds. So far, his answers have not been clear enough, in my opinion. I want to reiterate that the Council needs clear answers on the next steps at the sale of banks and whether the next two or three years will be considered during this term or not. And when it comes to it, because I suppose it will become a reality at some point, it will be done in social reconciliation. There must be more careful discussions in the community, not just in the General but in the whole community, about how we're going to do this bank sale. The process must be clear, and this is just a small part of our present assignment, i.e. A review of the entire financial system. How do we want it? Because in the wake of the collapse, there was great turmoil and distrust, not just to the financial system, but to the General and all of this. We need to work ourselves out of this. It takes time, it takes more than eight years, hopefully as the shortest time, but it needs to happen. And we here at the Council have a rich obligation to conduct this discussion and to draw out the answers that need to be drawn to make peace that is so important to all of us. Now we're talking about the expansion effect of performance. You can't build a tunnel there, you can't build a new bridge, though it's strictly social, because it could create a buildup, and it's all fucked up. We don't want to. We want to keep the inflation down. That's what we all know. However, at the same time as the government, as also shown in the budget, will continue to continue a great deal in public projects to achieve its goals, it can be said, in terms of implementation. It's a very big fan, must be, for society as a whole when a company like Istavia is doing for billions of people. I think we need to look at all the sides. This is not supposed to be like a state of state. It must have to be taken into the equation and viewed in relation to other things. At this point, I feel that it's just a little out of control, so I hope that a minister and we here will take this into consideration and discuss the next few weeks and months. Finally, I think it is very important for government projects not only to be looked into exploitors, that the Excel documents not only will be true, but will also be taken into account by national interest, community and other important factors, which are very important when setting Kingdom priorities. Otherwise, I thank you for your discussion, and I hope that we will prosper in our names and deal with the government. But, nation, you must give us some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u4	Madam President. I want the end of this long discussion to thank you for many objective talks. It's interesting to watch the first time you're going through a financial policy that's new, even if it's been done in a swamp movie last summer. That was a lot longer. From the first day of the council until now, we had time to cross our course. The senators could study it. It's interesting, as I hear a lot of people are snogging. Councilmen have suggested, considering the most practical procedure in the development of financial policy, and discussing it. I think it's very important in the future when we're planning our policy -- which in fact, it won't be until after four years, but financial plans are involved in this policy - to bear in mind that this is a process to shed more light on how we plan to frame up the budget of the Icelandic state for the next four to five years. Even though both a new course and a new plan is proposed, the thought of this law is that there is always a combination, always so that one sees what was done in the previous year, although it does not bind in both shoes so much that nothing can be changed. I think the discussion will show you what you're talking about. Congress officials have taken this practice seriously. Indeed, it can be testified that the Council has taken this work seriously. Then there were many excellent tips on how to manage this differently. For example, financial advisers suggested in a report or opinion it presented. Of course, they could not be taken into account in the contribution of this policy. But these can be done in the future. And this too, it is appropriate to draw attention to it, for the first time a financial body makes its own opinion, as if it were to be done according to law. It is very interesting, and it is important for all of us to consider what is normal in the business of government. And when it comes to tilting, how normal is it to be great? How should we conduct Kingdom interests? How much should we put in the business of the individual institutions? How much wood should we put in? What are we going to do in the ordinary business? Whether we are talking about a new hospital, a new house, or just a road or a tunnel that obviously needs to be done in many parts of the country, what should we put in order to build something up? All of this requires that we think and then learn from the conclusion. We are about to begin this conclusion in our next financial discussion. It's not surprising that many people have confused these two terms together. I've been guilty of it myself. It is only natural that while the terms are breaking up and all of us here learn about them that we do not fully understand what is what. I believe, though, that we can regret the discussion of what is most critical. If I looked at the comments given, they might have been the main means that there could have been more. Some have even suggested that they could have more money than both of them earn more money and have more expenses. All of these are factors that concern people of government. No doubt financial and financial policies are easier to put in place when the government is successful than in crisis. But one of the things we still need to consider is how factors that are not directly involved in financial policy and then in the financial agenda, e.g. The government's enterprise, which we know there are many major projects and, in fact, rural companies such as PGE. It is a interaction that we need to learn better. I've told it here that it would have been very useful to prepare this job first, to have more time, secondly, to have more experience and thirdly to have a better instrument. All of this would have helped us all, no matter what our conclusions may be. I agree with them. Council members who have expressed the opinion that the Council needs good access to specialists, just as it would have to be done. I think it's also important that we have national models that many people have access to. The nature of economic models is that they may rarely show the right conclusion, but as we learn more, we may be able to get closer to the truth. I think that if there's one lesson we can learn from the 2008 collapse and its leading point, he'll see that we're supposed to be cautious in all things, thinking ahead. Even if we do not know what will happen, according to the circumstances, we have thought, " If this happens, what do we do? ' A lot of what? Councilmen have noted that it was informative to set up different scenarios. I can agree with that. That would certainly have been fascinating. It would be fun to do so in the future, to say: If the income becomes these, then the results are likely to be the result. We did not have that device now, but we have learned from this process. That is why I would like to thank you to members of the council who have made objective comments. Now it can be concluded that perhaps a person should have offered more direct suggestions, such as. suggest that the maintenance should be, not 1.5%, but 2% or 1.5-2.5%, at a certain time point. It was one of the financial advisers' comments. It can also be wondered if there was a certain gap. Senators would not always be tempted to be in the lower part of the car. It's possible. I think that when we put in 1.5%, we're actually, in view of the uncertainty that the nature of the case must be, talking about maybe a plus/minus 0.23/4.3 percentage points, if not a major tragedy doesn't happen, we'll be so close to it. I think it's important that this sort of discussion, which I consider as a basic debate in the matter of Congress, is that we all try to be as progressive as possible in our language, making direct comments and meditating on this process, so that as much as possible the discussion for future events, this is definitely not the last time that men do it. I remember the first ideas of making a five - year budget that I thought were revolutionary but very positive. So I like now very much the opportunity to get into this at an early stage, when this is actually triggered, but it brings attention to the fact that the ideas are going quite far back. Among other things, this was being done, not just by the last government, but by the government ahead of preparing such a procedure. Those who helped there are to be commended.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of finance would like to ask only about the change in financial proposals, as the secretary of finance made some comments. The bill was submitted until the first days of the council, and two months later, a budgetary committee was always prepared for the changes, especially after the financial hearings. Why, then, did we not update some of the numbers we knew we needed? Only with regard to the bank sale: It was stated in unsubstantiated inquiry earlier today that money was enough to pay off the debts involved in the plan. Then I wonder where this profit comes from. Does he not really come from consumers who are, in effect, paying off the debt of state funds indirectly through government services? Is it really fair, or is it not just fair to say that high service costs there are indirect taxes? Otherwise, I agree with the highest. Minister, we need a specific risk assessment in economic models. There were people out there who knew there was going to be a crash, they've been made movies about it, and they've discussed the details of the process. Of course, we know that such numbers do not have specific boundaries. There is always an issue of the exact standard deviation. I would be interested in hearing the highest opinion. A minister is to explain why changes have not been made and how honest it is for us to take so much money from banks to subsidize the federal debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I can't really explain why the adjustment was not made because it was a financial committee who decided. Although it wasn't -- and I wouldn't have made any comment that it had been done -- I believe that all this process will benefit us for the next time we set up a financial policy and perhaps especially a financial plan, but it may be predictable immediately next year. As for the second part, in terms of bank interest, I can totally agree that it would be more practical for Icelandic consumers to get more competitive in the banking system and, in fact, with most of the community that it would be good if there were more and more competitive. In some ways it is due to the small size of the Icelandic society and otherwise perhaps because foreign people are afraid to go in here because they believe that there is too much uncertainty here in the economy, e.g. Because of the currency we've talked about earlier today. In terms of payment, it is now that banks have their own money between 20% and 30%, considerably above the minimum limit to which banks should live according to the strictest rules. True, this has been improved by the SEC, but they could, by reducing their balance account, underlining the demands, and thus reducing their own money now without anything else happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u7	A respectable president. The answers received by a smaller section of the budget board were that more part saw a change, and I expected it to be in cooperation with the Ministry of Economics and Economics. However, with regard to the payment and competitive status of the banks, the State is quite responsible for the competitive environment where it has much of the banking system. In such a situation, all the more than that, the decrease in money, all profit, to the debt of society. It can be interpreted as indirect taxes. I think that's wrong with me, and we'd have to be honest about it. Then there was a lot of discussion about the work ethic, i.e. how to talk about financialism. Now it's new here at the council. What Is Normal? A wide range is set up in the civil law on what financial policy should be used. In substance, it is not something of great importance, considering how we can discuss what it will do to contain. Finally, it is designed to influence the budgets we place, so I think it's inevitable that we talk about the issues we deal with and put in budgets. I just wanted to ask for the highest opinion. So the secretary of finance decides whether it should be something we should put ourselves in a certain legal capacity as a body of Congress and executives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u8	Madam President. I say again: I like to answer questions like this, where we're thinking about the process and thinking about the material, how we could do better. Of course, the question is, Should the course be to appear at the same time as the schedule or not? Or at least it should be possible to see in the schedule as long as the policy is agreed. It's a matter of opinion, of course. I suppose the idea was that they started putting the box first before thinking about specific matters that may have turned to individual spending teams to reduce the risk of men getting smaller or expanding the box based on the individual situation. I think it's just really worth thinking about. When you see the law, it's said that policy brings first money, so to speak, because the kind of procedure we're used to is that a council is chosen in the spring and that the government has summer to prepare and that it would set out policies and budgets at the same time. So, of course, we are in an unusual position right now. I want to agree with that with what. A senator, of course, is the tax on the population if there is no healthy competition. It would be very practical for consumers if there was a economy that more people wanted to participate in and would want to compete for the benefit of consumers. Finally, I want to thank you for what you have done. A senator for this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u9	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State of EFTA as well as Georgia. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives in the Ministry of State. The proposal consults the Generals' permission to negotiate a vacation contract between EFTA and Georgia signed on June 27, 2016, in Bern, Switzerland. The proposal suggests that the Georgia Free Trade Convention promotes mutual delinquency and reduction of industrial products, marine and marine products, and the rest, as well as agricultural products. Thus, customs on all kinds of marine and industrial products exported from Iceland to Georgia will fall from the implementation of the contract and from the implementation of the major export products in the country. The freewill agreement is of the so-called third-generation free trade agreements and contains regulations for the trade trade, services trade, right to establishment, protection of mental rights, public shopping, business and sustainable development, work protection and protection, as well as standard regulations for the joint committee of partners and the solution to issues. It says that the exports from Iceland to Georgia were small over the years, but it has increased over the past few years and studied less than 300 million. K. Last year. This involves only the export of intact macroils. Georgia's import has also been small. With mutual delinquency and a reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the growing trade between countries. The commission points out that in the preamble of the treaty, the commitment of the Treaty to promote democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and human rights in accordance with national rights, including human rights. as shown in the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. It should then be noted that a special chapter of the contract deals with business and sustainable development, as has been the custom in recent vacation agreements with EFTA. Convention partners acknowledge that economic development, social and environmental are independent factors that support mutually sustainable development. Contracts also stipulate their duties to respect, promote, and implement the principles of fundamental rights found in the ILO declaration of core and rights to work and in its application as adopted by the International Work Programme in 1998. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Hv. Senators Tithol Björn Einarsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson were absent from the hearing. This opinion was adopted at a meeting at the Department of Foreign Affairs on March 16, 2017. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Jóna Sólveig Sólven Elínardóttir Sólnardóttir, Director of State Affairs, Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason, author of the case, Áa Guðrún Helgadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of Aargótir, Bríldsdótir Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Björnófjörnótir, and Þóra the Árnadóttir of Tjörnna. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u10	Madam President. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, head of the Committee to Remuneration of the Free Trade Convention between EFTA and Georgia, I'll sign that opinion, thereby suggesting my consent to this vacation agreement. So I'm not going to go against anything that came out of the question. a member of the committee's opinion. Chapter 11 of the Annex to the Free Trade Convention, we are told that environmental protection is one of the individual factors to be expected and that it needs to promote sustainable development. Then I'd like to add to the fact that this was done in an consideration of why. The Foreign Affairs Committee on the matter that climate targets are not part of the Convention model for treaties or contracts. I think it's a flaw. I think it's a problem in the 21st century, I think it's a flaw when we've signed the Paris meeting that doesn't seem to be part of what we're talking about when shopping contracts are made between countries, how this affects the ecology that comes from the move. Although I support the validation of this vacation agreement, I still wanted to be sure that I don't feel that this is part of the contract and that we senators are supposed to do it. We've already discussed this. I came into it in answer to the highest. A minister, so he should know that this has been mentioned. I believe that there is a need for updated negotiations and negotiations. I think we're all supposed to take it to us to make sure that this is going to be taken forward and beyond.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u11	Madam President. We're here on a second discussion on the validation of a vacation agreement between EFTA and Georgia. I'd like to welcome our tips in the memory of the fact that there's a contract commitment to support democracy of legal regulations, human rights and freedom of people in accordance with their national obligations, as it happens. in the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, received a sound base, and will rejoice that it was the sole concern of the commission to promote this challenge in the committee's opinion. I agree with it. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir noted earlier that sustainable development should be better developed in the free trade agreements Iceland is making practically available. Free trade agreements are a very important part of Iceland's foreign trade and, hence, our foreign policy. Of course, there's the biggest and most important EEA deal. As most know, free trade agreements are made by the Icelandic government for business and economic purposes to improve the access of Icelandic enterprises to the relevant markets to reduce or defuse business barriers and ensure long-term European employment conditions. More business too involves increased responsibilities. We can't overlook them. In the first discussion of a vacation agreement between EFTA and Georgia, I asked the highest. Foreign Minister on how Member States will treat Georgia's free trade agreements exactly will promote and support democracy, legal regulations, and freedom of persons, as the preprogrammation of the agreement. The reason I asked the highest question. A minister of this is the fact that Georgia has a violation of human rights. It is widespread torture of citizens by the authorities that have not been investigated. In February it. published a very black report on a serious percentage in Georgia regarding violence against women. Similarly, a recent report from the Human Rights Watch Human Rights Watch can be quoted that paints a very dark picture of matters in which human rights and human rights break in this country that we are validating a free trade agreement. When the EFTA nation commits to treat treaties, treaties to promote democracy, legal regulations, human rights and freedom in accordance with its obligation to national rights, I feel that it is almost unacceptable that in these treaties there is no clear way to withdraw and cancel the agreement when certain violations of human rights occur. V.E.G. The minister of state answered in the Senate during his first session on the validation of the contract my question about how he was about to use himself for this kind of human rights and rights of the citizens, as I interpret his words, to imagine that the Icelanders could set a good example when it comes to how Iceland can enter this sort of vacation agreement, with the guidance of denounceing violations of human rights. Then he said he was going to speak for himself about human rights. It's fine as far as it goes. But we are to go ahead, go further, and simply refuse to negotiate free trade agreements with countries that violate their rights. We are to refuse to participate in business agreements between countries and countries that represent their citizens. It's just that there's no place to talk. We'll probably get into a little more details later when we discuss the validation of Iceland's holiday deal through the EFTA State of the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u12	Madam President. I thank you for this correction and for the opportunity to say a few words about this, I'll have it brief. It's a very positive thing that we're completing a vacation contract between EFTA and Georgia, and especially as a direct continuation of what happened a week ago, Georgia's citizens were allowed to enter Schengen countries without visas. I think it will contribute to increasing freedom of movement and that this increased freedom of travel will contribute to greater business ventures with the EFTA countries. That's the best part. This deal is very good. It doesn't contain any of the bad things I've been doing in vacation contracts in the past few years. In particular, it's very good not to be called the ISDS. It's a little dangerous that there's always going further in the defense of a mental right that's the best thing to do, but it doesn't matter how it's done. It seems to me that this deal is a pretty convenient way to compromise, so it's just good and really great that we finish this. I'd still like to agree with whatRósa Brynjólfsdóttir The important thing is that we remember where Georgia comes from regarding human rights. It is a land that is naturally the former Soviet Union, which has come a long way since then, but a highly developed human rights offense is still taking place in the country, with a high level of corruption and a great deal of special interests. We need to be careful with the implementation of business contracts and vacation contracts, but also in our general dealings with Georgia, i.e. that it is constantly the importance of maintaining human rights and trying to root out these corruption tendencies as much as possible. Actually, I don't have much more to say on this matter unless, in fact, only to congratulate Georgians on this business agreement provided we finish it here on a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u13	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of accountants, surveillance fees, on deck. 428, 312. This bill suggests a change in the surveillance rate of accountants. Eight years have passed since the current legalization laws went into effect. Under the Law, a legal body of accountants was entrusted with a better surveillance of accountants than had ever been. It is important that the monitoring role it has under the law and with the bill is proposed to make changes in order to ensure that this is the case. To cover the cost of the work of the accountants, accountants pay annual fees to the state fund, so called monitoring fees. The price is legal. K. on each accountant, and it has remained unchanged for the past eight years. Because of the increased scope of the Council's operation, income is not sufficient for costs, so it must be raised by the legal price to sustain it. Expenditures have been increased, including due to increased pay records and more specialised costs for larger cases hired by foreign experts to examine. There is also a greater demand to communicate with the organisation in both the North and other parts of Europe and to follow the costs of such international meetings and cooperation. It is suggested that the accountant's monitoring fee increase to 80 levels. K. to cover costs of legal surveillance with accountants. It is also suggested that the date of the surveillance fee be dated April 1 as early as 2018, instead of January 1 as in the current law. The bill was prepared with a consultation with the accountant's Council on the amount laid on the bill and is based on the budget of the Council. The contribution of law - appointed accountants has also been informed of the changes proposed in the bill. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to influence the survival of a government fund. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u14	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of various laws because of the name of the patent office on the roof. 500, No. 371. The bill suggests that the name of the private secret office will be changed to the Factory Office. In addition, the laws of various special laws are suggested to be changed in the light of this change of name. In Iceland, the patent agency conducts the affairs of industrial intellectual rights. Its role is to handle matters relating to patents, brands, design protection, markets and other corresponding rights set out in law, regulations and international agreements for the protection of industrial rights. The Agency should also provide individuals, organisations and companies with information and advice on industrial rights. Furthermore, the Agency should contribute to the availability of new technology and knowledge in written mental rights for the public. Therefore, the term private secret office does not give a clear picture of the Agency's activities as it refers only to a single form of industrial mental rights. In view of the role of the Agency, the pledge has been too narrow in reference to its actual activity. Then the name of the private secret office can be misleading to clients and other stakeholders where it suggests that the Agency is strictly exclusive in matters despite the general involvement of the activities and responsibilities of the Agency. It must be considered important that an institution which handles these matters ensures that all professions are done as high as any other subject and that its name does not reveal any special emphasis on one field above another. It is also in line with what was set up in a mental - health policy introduced by the then industrial and commercial minister in 2016 under the terms'2016/2022 Vocational rights as business tools and valuables'. The aim of the policy is Iceland's software drive in 2022, and this vision is presented in its policy as well as providing information about their rights, their importance and possible protection measures and a plan for the next five years. The bill does not affect the Agency's administration. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to influence the survival of a government fund. Madam President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u15	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 55/2003, waste management and law No. 52/1989 of the measures for environmental contamination caused by the single use container for drinking products. The bill is back from our last council. It was cooperated with the Office of the Ministry and has twice been sent forth to stake stakeholders. In addition, the Ministry has made some comments that were handled during the last legislation. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure that waste management laws are compatible with the commitments established by the EEA Convention, i.e. The implementation of EEA types and correction of objects in the implementation of EEA types. First, this is the implementation of Directive No. 19/2012 on electronic and electronic waste including The requirement not to dispose of untreated electronic waste. Second, it is a Regulation from the EU No. 660/2014 of the transport of waste, which has the primary objective of improving the monitoring of its transport and preventing the illegal transport of waste between countries. This should be carried out by monitoring programmes based on specific risk assessments and targeted at companies, apheresiss and transporters. The EEA is expected to provide a three-year monitoring programme for the transport of wastes between countries; otherwise, further regulations for such programmes, content and scope, as well as relevant definitions are expected to be set up in Regulation. Third, it is the implementation of the 727/2013 decision-making policy format for the waste policy providing information on their own. In the event that ruralities are proposed, the EEA will submit information on publishing and significant reviews of local waste management programmes. Fourth, the bill is intended to prepare the implementation of EU Regulation No. 1257/2013 on recycling of ships aimed to be set up in the EEA Convention in the near future. Changes are made which include the definition of the recycling of ships and the publishing of job vacancies. The EEA is expected to allow work permit for a recycling administration of more than 500 grosstons, but health-care committees for a function that recycles less ships. The Minister's Regulation will consider the matter in more detail, including on which orders of recycling are met, requirements for the owners of the ships, orders for recycling of ships, ship-recycling centres and other requirements and conditions that the publisher considers necessary, and consistent with the objectives of the Regulation, such as the requirements for best available technology. Fifth, the observations made by the EFTA Institute of Monitoring have given reason to correct waste management laws because of the implementation of the Framework Directive No. 2008/98 on waste. Because of the comment, it is suggested that the definition of the seller and server be added and the license required for these persons, as well as the addition of the regulations for waste management. Another primary objective of the bill is to provide necessary changes in waste areas. First, it is suggested that the provision of the official publication of the reports by the operator be adjusted so that the law is compatible with competitive law and to ensure a thorough collection of statistical information on waste. Second, it is suggested that the legal authority on wastes for the Environmental and Resource Commission be adjusted according to other laws in the Ministry's case for increased clarity. It is thought that the public is permitted to sue government decisions regarding its rights and duties, i.e. So-called administrative decisions, but the legal authority of the current law is far more extensive. Third, there is a suggestion for law No. 52/1989 of the measures for environmental contamination caused by the single use container for drinking products will be modified in order to allow the pressures on an aluminium. The recent losses have been historically low and the gangs of the Icelandic kroner are greatly strengthened, thus setting up at Recycling hf. to make money from aluminium, i.e. due to aluminium store sale, less than the company's cost in handling aluminium. Therefore, it is considered proper to suggest that the charge be taken by an aluminium camp, but the amount of money will be set in place. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the defense laws against pollution of the sea and the coasts and the laws of loyalty and pollution. The bill is aimed at completing the introduction of two of the embargos that require penalties for specific environmental violations. Here, for example. to discuss violations of transport and waste regulations, violations of air, soil or water disposal rules or are likely to result in serious injury or death to individuals. Analysis of local types revealed that their regulations are largely already contained in Icelandic legislation. The changes proposed in the bill will lead to the full implementation of the directives in Icelandic rights. The bill suggests a single change in the law on loyalty and pollution control, which includes an attempt to break and share in violations under the law. So it's new. Changes proposed to protect against pollution of the sea and coastal environment In the case of a minor offense that will result in loss of water, it will be considered a punishable action, and the criminal responsibility of the law will be laid up for certain offenses against the law. In addition, the bill suggests changes that will lead to better harmony in terms of regulations IV. The Annex of the MARRPOL Convention, which deals with the rules to prevent sewage pollution from ships, is aimed at completing the annex this year. It is urgent that we do so as soon as possible. The bill also suggests changes due to the comments of the EFTA monitoring agency due to the earlier European creations which, in the opinion of the Agency, had not been properly introduced into Icelandic legislation. In this case the word has to be disposed of as a fishing service, which was a change made by the Council in 2014 by the legislation on pollution of the sea and the coast, in the law on waste charge, but, in ESA terms, the ships that are abdicating pay pay will be fully listed in Directive 59/2000 as Article 11. c The law was intended to introduce. However, it is now clearly stated that emissions of pollutants are illegal, but ESAs considered the implementation of directive No. Because of this, 35/2015 was imperfect. V.E.G. President. With the approval of the bill, the importance of protecting the environment, improving its safety and increasing the protection of the marine environment from pollution by ships, but the clean seas are in our best interests. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister fine reviewing the case. I may be making the most of my situation. Minister here in the hall only discuss with her certain aspects of the bill that I am deeply pleased with. How Would You Answer? g., as a minister came in, the following minor occurrences of emissions, where each case does not destroy the quality of water, but gathers the events leading to loss of quality water, are considered to be a criminal action. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister to this. I'm not putting myself back on this one or anything, but it's a collection of events. And then, if I get it right, I'm at 4. spoke of committing a fine to the defendant on account of the offense. What should be done when considering this collection of events? Is it being looked at to see that if the quality of water is lost, the story is being reviewed and how it has happened? Is this a certain case? Or how will this be carried out? This is followed by what we read in the book of Deuteronomy. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ An attempt to break and share in offenses under the laws of this law, the regulations set out in accordance with these regulations, and the approved communities are punished by what is said in the general law of penalties. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister a little. It speaks of fines and general penalties. How will monitoring be conducted? What is the actual penalty, i.e. Is the guilt being referred to by the general law of justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u18	A respectable president. I did my best to listen to all the questions why. Senator. I don't know if I got them all. It's about what it's like. A senator asked first of all, that it is defined as a fraction. The cumulative case is one serious crime that would be illegal. It was then asked who would have surveillance and pressure control measures. Those in general are under the EEA's legislation on the control of commitment and pollution control. It's 26. This involves the field of authority and the use of force, and is in three steps. A reminder can be given, a reminder can be given, and proper time to reform, and third, stop or limit the activity or use, thereby staging goods and ordering their disposal. Therefore, it should only be applied to the case of more severe or recurrent fractures or to patients who are not reinvigorated within a certain period of time. The Agency will then be authorized to seek police assistance, for example, under the laws of loyalty and pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. She has developed the qualities that are good at this work when she has both the ability to speak to people here and to consult and listen to questions at once, so I admire them, I think she has achieved all the questions I presented here. I'd like to come up with my second answer to a little bit of what I think is a very interesting talk in general and that this bill is only being passed on for legal purposes, i.e. whether environmental degradation is defined as independent or considered a so-called economic fracture. Here, I don't understand it any different in this bill than that, based on the standard definition of economic violations, by permission of the President: ◯... refers to criminal offenses committed for profit, systematic and regular in other legal activities of individuals and lawgivers. So says the report later, with permission from the president: The evidence then suggests applying a violation under penalties if this has resulted in economic benefits, for example, in avoiding expenses obtained from the laws of pollution. Because it's a debate I know the highest. A minister knows the management of this sector well, and I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Minister: Is it really the government's conclusion now that environmental degradation will be defined as economic violations, subjecting it to a general law of punishment? Then I'm not just looking at this bill, I'm looking at it in general. Will we see this definition of environmental degradation and whether it will be used in more cases than this one?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u20	A respectable president. About what we may be dealing with here a lot of times because of that. A senator spoke of crimes for financial purposes, some such economic violations, I'm sorry, so maybe the danger is that an enterprise with a particular function will benefit from not following laws and regulations. [[Upwards: Economics.]] It could, for example. So if the fines were to be small enough, there would be no way to answer the cost of acting somehow, paying off the fines, rather than doing the right thing. Of course, we must be careful not to have the law, for it does not serve its purpose. So, of course, this may also apply to some offense as an individual or to someone else, but it may not have a direct economic advantage if you can say so, so there may be two in this. There's a general penal law under here, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u21	A respectable president. Thank you, I repeat, to the highest degree. Minister - who I happily branched here in reply - for going over the matter. Really, I think it's very positive and also the tone I heard in a case of the highest order. A minister who is also included in the bill. I had a word with the Minister on the definition of environmental degradation, and I think there's a discussion that we need to take a little deeper in general, not just in this matter. V.E.G. The minister's concern was that in some cases the environmental breakdown may be so that the offender will benefit from the economic gains. He came so into what I was going to do to talk about, i.e. that in not all cases it is not appropriate, but, at times, there are URLs, neglectings, or deciding not to follow the laws and regulations of any kind. I've been an amateur for environmental degradation to be defined independently. This does not mean that, in certain cases as here, they are also defined as economic violations and that general penalties can be applied there, but in just the case as high as the highest. In reply to my previous answer, a minister of the past may have been able to consider the fact that there have been no economic advantages in the experienced environmental degradation that can have serious consequences. I think that's one of the things we need to do to cross our code in general, using modern environmental thinking to guide and view these matters only again from that point on. I think there's a need to go over all our code and look at it. I've heard the highest. Ministers talk about a few issues, such as climate issues, and I've been pleased with the tone I heard from him in terms of an overall review of all legislation and a vision of this series. I'm not complaining and complaining about the fact that this has not been done. I'm even saying more about the new thought that I feel is developing when it comes to environmental issues. I think this case is part of it. I admit the lyrics aren't the simplest texts or the most fun reading you can do, but as I understand, they're added to fish farms, they're supposed to pay a price - now I've lost all these dashes I've got here - i've lost. that they no longer get the ensign that was; waste money, that's the word I'm looking for. I think it's very important. I am also glad that the party is not only being watched as a mere offense but is seen, as it were in 4. .......... that lack of supervision may also result in guilt and punishment. I don't think it's important that you can shoot off that it wasn't an agent or an overseer who's committed a crime. Rather, employees or whatever it is; it's a sort of chain responsibility if you let me use that metaphor on this. Generally speaking, I like the subject of the bill very much during my first lecture. I can't wait for us to read the bill, and I'll look more closely at it at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. Here are some factors that are introduced in the bill that are of great importance. The discussion is discussed and comments that have either been taken into consideration or not. I'm happy with the line you put here. The bill says, and that's what I started talking about, with President's permission: ◯ In the writings of foreign scholars on the two decrees - i.e. These EEA directives, referred to in Article 5 of the Council, show that the implementation of the species will be expected to be simple in Member States with already broad law on environmental offenses, but in countries where punishable by environmental violations, the directives can lead to significant changes. I think this bill, though it's said that many of these things are already in our hands, and the spirit in it has more changes than may be spoken of here, if we take it seriously to apply what is being said here. One is that the penalties are penalties for violations. I consider this bill to be a factor in taking fixed and serious action on environmental fractures. I reiterate my view that in general we need to consider that matter. Whether or not they bring economic benefits, environmental degradation is serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u22	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion and a useful bill, and there is no doubt about it. On the contrary, I thank you for the contributions and discussions that have taken place and are not quite at odds with this bill in part. I'm going to use this opportunity to make a point that may be a part of history. For decades it used to waste all the wastes in Iceland. They were small rural areas with small wastes, but large rural areas also had plenty of waste. There were museum heaps that are now under the law of the earth. This was for the classification of waste and recycling. Here in Reykjavík, this is for example. The garbage dumps, if we call them that, we'll take the Ellipst into Gufunes and the one that's called Geirsnef. These are huge haystacks, e.g. The ones I mentioned by name, there are others in some of the shores of the land where the composts actually lie in fulfillment, so that the sea comes in and out of them, or else the ground is flowing with groundwater and flows through these doors. It does not take much imagination to see how it treats them, whether it was paint or oil, or if it was highly dangerous. There's metals, even battery with mercury and stuff like that. It doesn't take much imagination to imagine what's going on in there. All of this rots and slowly decays. It works out of the dumps, which is a greenhouse, as everyone knows. There has now been some monitoring in these areas, of course, on the hands of the local community. There are findings showing that this is a case of pollutants that washes into the sea or descends into the sea through shallow water and floodwaters and shorewaters. Now it is possible to recycle such a house. In the case of the Israelites, the recycling of metals has been partly paid for the cost. I'm not going to put a lot of words in this, but it's all just a part of the bill. I just want to draw attention to the top. A minister of this situation, which in many respects is vague. Some have gone so far as to call it a ticking time bomb. I'm going to encourage you to go to some extension work after this bill is taken to the highest level. The committee and then probably agreed here at the General Assembly that there is enough work to consider old museums, which are an overview of where they are but too vague to allow us to feel comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u23	A respectable president. It may be an answer rather than an answer. I appreciate the tip. No doubt my government officials know a lot about this. I'll admit it was a good point, it wasn't the first thing I thought about and I don't have a perspective on it, so I'll say it out completely. Of course, this is something we need to examine. Actually, I think we need to get our heads together. Waste products have been handled fine, if you can say so, waste policy, and all that. We are blessed with the course of quitting, as was done. Yet, some rural communities still have considerable incentives to raise their heads. We need to be careful and just ask questions. I'm trying to take a look at this whole thing and a clue. The senator was very good into that view. I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u24	A respectable president. I'm glad we see here the possibility of following the MARPOL deal in almost all its issues. The exception that has been provided for this was, in part, the terms of the agreement because of the failure of rural society to clean up sewage, which made it difficult for a ship to do so, but our towns could not. Has it changed? Has rural society established an appropriate means for us to be really meeting the agreement in all its aspects? Otherwise, it's good to know that we think we can fulfill the contract. That will be an interesting discussion under 2nd. and especially the reviews of rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u25	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search for Generals warrant to establish for Iceland a decision made by the Joint Commission No. 59/2017, which measures that the 2013 European Parliament and Council Directive on re-use of official information will be implemented in the EEA Convention. This directive contains changes to the older directive with the same substance. The first directive set out minimal rules on the use of official information. However, there have been very different implementations by EU countries, and it was therefore reason to improve the rules of re-use of official information, in which different national regulations have led to the inhibitions of business through products and services. The principle in this directive is that all the data that the public has the right to access according to information law must be reused. In this context of recovery, individuals and companies should be authorized to use public information and the public has the right to access, e.g. to create from such data products or services that can be sold for profit. Yet, there are limitations. The most important limit is that this right normally does not cover the data protected by the Author's rights. This includes the rules for personal protection including limitation of the use of personal information. It should then be that governments are permitted to demand a reasonable price for such re - use if it includes the cost of public relations. Today, we have rules on the use of official information in VII. section of the information layer. Therefore, the implementation of the directive will require changes in these laws and will expect a bill to be expected on the implementation of the directive in the next autumn. So a administrative decision was made on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u26	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 121/2016 of the 2014 European Commission Directive on terms of cultural status will be adopted in the EEA Convention. The EEA contract is going on, including it is not permitted to limit trade with products within the European Economic Area. That rule, however, is unique. For example, the EEA has the right to forbid cultural value from abroad. The proposal to adopt the EEA agreement set out rules on how to deliver cultural barriers that have been exported from the EEA state in a violation of the ban in the Member State. Instead of implementing an earlier directive on this subject, this new directive aims to facilitate the submission of cultural events that have been illegally exported from the country. In this country, there is a law on cultural fairs passed to other countries, and the implementation of this directive calls for a change in that law. So a administrative decision was made on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, a respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u27	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 92/2016, which measures that two EU non-employment directives and remunerations will be adopted in the EEA Convention. By means of controlled regulations, the interests of consumers and their protection are primarily aimed at maintaining the general and opening of a network with a so-called lack of network and, on the other hand, reducing the cost of consumers by uninvolved bank fees, which are expected to be suspended in June of this year. The principle of noncommunication is that all traffic through the network should be treated on an equal basis. This includes the ability of users to access online materials and that communications companies should inform their customers if companies use some type of network and traffic control. An example of such control is e.g. If a communications company shuts down the specific service of its network users, such as Skype. The European Union's non-employment Regulation usually prohibits network and traffic control. However, there are exceptions from that principle, e.g. Closed for material on the basis of a court order. Since the implementation of the Regulation calls for a legal adjustment, the decision made by the European Commission was adopted by a administrative notice on the part of Iceland, in particular the part of the Regulation involved in the lack of network information about changes in telecommunications laws. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, a administrative notice must be replaced by a judicial resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision is made, so that the government will be removed in advance. I propose, most respectable president, after this discussion is followed by the proposal being referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u28	Madam President. I feel a little weird, but I'm still coming up here. It's a very strange opposite because I can't see better than the introductions of the highest. The President and the documents I find with numbers are in no way consistent with the highest number. Secretary of state just read here. I just have to admit that I'm a little unsure about whether I'm scraping or if there's been any confusion, so I'd like to wait to the top. President and Chief. A minister to correct me if I'm wrong or to make sure that we're discussing the same things over here. I feel like there may have been some confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I wouldn't have been surprised it got confused. We're taking all these council mishap proposals for decommissioning government alerts in a row. I'm sure there could have been some confusion. I believe, more dignified President, that we are in the 13th event of electronic communication, sound, video media, and information community. That goes with what I was reading here. I think, more dignified President, I'm in the right place. The person standing here has not always been right - old history and new. [[Up front.]] I was kind of sure that it was. A senator would be right when she made a comment. But I think, by the way, we're in the right place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u30	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer and repeat the fact that I wasn't quite sure, but I didn't feel there to be a sound and picture together. Of course, it's uncomfortable, not because I've had any material comment to what was said in the language of the highest degree. Minister, but it would be rather shocking if the committee was to address issues that have actually not been recommended. This may tell us a little bit about our work ethic when we're doing these pieces of EEA, it's a bit kaotian. But I thank you very much. Ministers and trust that I have misunderstood this and found it really better, even though it may be a little silly to come up in the platform and not quite sure, to admit it when you're unsure and to try to get things straightened out so that we're definitely taking matters in the right order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u31	A respectable president. I can say that, that's 100%, that's what. A senator is not the first senator to appear on the platform and is not sure. But the difference between what and what? A senator and many others who come here and are not sure that she could do so especially, but many people do not. I think we're going to make a sound and a picture together. But I completely agree with what. A senator, of course, is that way when he takes all of this together in a single stream that things can work out. Now I think we're in the right place in this fine matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u32	Madam President. It won't be long. It is also a bit of a peculiar substance and, in fact, as a result of the debate on which the subject was being discussed. You see, I don't think it quite worked out, as we were talking about, because if I understand correctly, we're talking about a case of No. 59/2017, page 13. It is not about that as a matter of course. Minister spoke for us. However, the Minister discussed confirmation of EEA Type 92/2016, lack of network and repercussion and all, Geo-Blocking and Skype. There's been a cross-over here. I think I have to draw the attention of the United States Congress that there's become a bit of confusion but a bit of a pain in the ass. I think it's that big if I understand the Senate papers and the contents of the story. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u33	The mistake was that it was measured on a 13th and vice versa matter. That's why the president proposes the highest power. Minister recommences for the 11th Environment Convention, which is the decision of the joint EEA committee No. 92/2016 of the change in XI. Annex to the EEA Convention, (maid communications, audio and image sharing and information community) EEA regulations, stick. " 264th suit, jade. 366. - Previous round.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u34	A respectable president. Rarely is a good reference too often, so it's taken two. A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 92/2016 which measures that two EU non-employment regulations and remuneration regulations will be adopted in the EEA Convention. By means of controlled regulations, the interests of consumers and their protection are primarily aimed at maintaining the common open network by the so - called lack of network and, on the other hand, reducing the cost of consumers by the disintegration of special interest fees, which are expected to be suspended in June of this year. The principle of noncommunication is that all traffic through the network should be treated on an equal basis. This includes the ability of users to access online materials and that communications companies should inform their customers if companies use some type of network and traffic control. An example of such control is e.g. If a communications company shuts down the specific service of its network users, such as Skype. The European Union's non-employment Regulation usually prohibits network and traffic control. However, there are exceptions from that principle, e.g. Closed for material on the basis of a court order. Since the implementation of the Regulation calls for a legal adjustment, the decision made by the European Commission was adopted by a administrative notice on the part of Iceland, in particular the part of the Regulation involved in the lack of network information about changes in telecommunications laws. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, a administrative notice must be replaced by a judicial resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision is made, so that the government will be removed in advance. I propose, a respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u35	Madam President. I thank you for the second time in speech because I missed out on the opportunity to get to the rosary the first time. I'm not gonna take this far, but I wanted to use this opportunity to mention how important this is. The lack of space is, in fact, as important to normal functioning of the network as any form of electricity or lack of water, if the distinction between electricity and water could be made. Sadly, the Internet has developed so much that attempts have been made to distinguish different types of information that flow through the network according to the type of service available at a time. Well, that's even true. has the tendency to look at e.g. Videos and the likes of something more burdensome than text, even viewing sources of competition as a special pest, and humans create limits on the fact that competitors or products from them can enter their networks or parts of the network each time and to their customers, and so on. The point is that any information that goes through the Internet should follow the same rules, no matter where it comes from, where it is going, for what purpose it is sent. This is one of the basic elements of the network structure, that everyone can pick up anything at any time without any restrictions. There are now restrictions in these regulations to hinder in the case of judicial decisions. This point has been very controversial and questions about whether it has any activity. There are some so-called DNS logs here in the country that have had no real effect but have caused damage by making certain services especially restricted to information flows. Therefore, it has been recommended to take into account illegal material by court decisions when there can be much more than going into what might be, and to call a censorship. The only other than this is a measure of quality, that information can be directed in a way that is not limited to increasing consumer services. That's the best part. I'm not gonna waste any more time on this, because there's a lot of people in the world up to it. But I hope that there is a good understanding in members of the Parliament that needs to be properly developed and supported, and very important, we do not allow companies or others to get away with putting different priorities on different information or even engaging in censorship for an illegal purpose. So we should be quick to make this matter work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u36	Madam President. I see a special reason to step in the pit and be glad we're dealing with this important matter. It's a big consumer thing. The cost of telephone users on their European journeys is reduced by canceling the so - called remuneration, i.e. to avoid placing extra charges on phone calls even if you are abroad. It is well - known that telephone bills were prone to rush out of control if they went abroad. Then, too, what is called geographic boundaries on a network tour, or Geo-Blocking. I think it's a very important consumer case too. But I wanted to come up to point out that this is a very big consumer business. Where's that coming from? It comes from the European Union headquarters of Brussels, another example of good things that come from Brussels.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u37	A respectable president. We're here for another discussion on this fine subject. These issues have the exact same names, but there is still one number, and that is quite enough, when it comes to the determination of the joint EEA committee. A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 59/2017 to recommend the re-use of official information in the EEA Convention to the 2013 European Parliament and Council Directive. This directive contains changes to the older directive on the same subject. The first directive set out a minimum guidelines for the re-use of official information. However, there have been very different implementations by the EEA, and it was therefore reason to sharpen the rules for re-use of official information, in which different national regulations have led to business inhibitions with products and services. The principle in this directive is that all the data that the public has the right to access according to information law must be reused. In this context of recovery, individuals and companies should be authorized to use public information and the public has the right to access, e.g. to create from such data products or services that can be sold for profit. Yet, there are limits. Most important, this right does not normally cover data protected by the author's rights. It includes the rules for personal protection including limitations in the use of personal information. It should then be noted that governments are permitted to demand a reasonable price for such recovery if it includes the cost of public relations. Today, there are rules on the use of official information in VII. section of an information layer. Therefore, the implementation of a directive will require changes in that law and will expect a bill to be expected on the implementation of a directive in the next autumn. So a administrative decision was made on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, a respectable president, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u38	A respectable president. I see a reason to come up here, and I'm especially glad we're going to introduce this particular fire in our legislation. I know some of these matters, and my last career was just in the field of data and information. I know well that these matters are not always very successful in our country, e.g. compared to the United States, where data has been very effective. It was common here, when a person sought permission to use certain information, specific data, from the websites of certain institutions, that the next question was always: What are you going to use in this? It was the response that the license given to use the data depends on what the person intended to do with it. As a man who is free of information, we would feel much better if we were simply to open up data and make them free and allowed them to be reused for whatever purpose they choose without public knowledge it would be to wonder what the purpose of the use of the material would be. I wondered, in the context of these specific issues, that it states that this particular authority does not reach the author-proof data. As far as I've found out, it is a principle in Iceland that the data made by the state is authorised, and the state has the authorship, so it may not achieve the full success I would have chosen. Of course, it is our decision to change it and perhaps take further steps in the situation that has been done in the United States and to some extent in Britain, where it is a principle that the evidence and documents produced by the state are not authorized but so - called public. I'm glad we're taking this fire into our legal environment and hoping we'll take advantage of the opportunity to look at the general benefits when they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u39	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartozsek took in my opinion of interesting matters that we don't discuss, but we've been exposed to legislation. I remember, for example, on the Geographic Law. At that time, people were taking steps that seemed reasonable to me. A senator just cited examples from the United States and Britain. I don't know that in Britain, but there seems to be a general policy followed in the United States for information. In that case, what turns to map bases and what is owned was the subject, as it were. Then the question is, What access might be made to it without charge? Of course, it all costs. Somebody's paying for it. In this case it's taxpayers, but in that case the approach was, if I remember correctly, I may well not do so, that it was justified and normal that most of the information there would be available to the public. Then, as in maps, humans can make new products and, among other things, produce valuable things. Hv. A senator knows the matters he was referring to much better when it comes to working out information. Here, we're just here, if it turns out, we're going to accept administrative notice. This goes into the EEA deal, then it comes in here, we have to put it in our legal environment. If so, it would not be too difficult to look at this from the ground up as a reason. A senator just referred to him. I think it would be good to have a general rule that the public could have access to and take advantage of the information that the government has on property or on decision. I think it's all recommended, and I agree with that. A senator of what he went over earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for addressing me and raising the matter so as to make shoes that we can use this process to open up the data created by the Icelandic state rather. I'd like to use this opportunity to set up a difference that may not be all lights that do not work in this business, which is the one, and that is two; on the one hand, the liberation of the information and the reuse rights. So the data can be free, and much of the data produced by the Icelandic state is available, but they are not necessarily free - use rights, protected by authorship. An example of this is the News magazine. The newspaper is free when it comes to houses, but its contents still contain the fossil record. It's important to realize. Then you can go the other way too, try to charge access to data, charge for normal access to data only because you have to maintain some computer systems in order to restore the full right to reused. I wanted to take advantage of those views. I look forward to seeing how the minister will react.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u41	A respectable president. I don't know how many times I can come up here and say I agree, maybe it's a good idea to do it from time to time. At least in this case, I hear why. A senator speaks with great knowledge. I agree with his viewpoints presented here, but the reason I went up here wasn't just to say I agree. Senator, I'm actually encouraging you. Senator and other senators, to be loved. This certainly has to do with the development, but let us not forget that the Council makes decisions. I think it's important to consider this in the overall context of how we want to see this, which prince we want in these matters, and then work us through it. I don't think it'll just be unwise, I think it'll be a little easier every day when it's so easy to work with data and information, that men limit people's access to information that I think most people would agree to be completely taken for granted. Then I'm referring to man's ability to limit it in various ways, including For example, pay inaccessiblely. Some are just like that, even though it's become electronic, just as we feel that public rights are self-condent, that people can cross countries, etc. If there is a public court in Iceland, then we must like to see someone like that right, too, when it comes to information and data.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u42	A respectable president. I have high hopes that I am speaking here for the right reason. A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 121/2016 of the Council of the European Union's 2014 Directive for enforcing cultural mines in the EEA Convention. The EEA contract is going on, including it is not permitted to limit trade with products within the European Economic Area. That rule, however, is unique. For example, the EEA has the right to forbid cultural value from abroad. The proposal to adopt the EEA agreement set out rules on how to deliver cultural barriers that have been exported from the EEA state in a violation of the ban in the Member State. Instead of implementing an earlier directive on this subject, this new directive aims to facilitate the submission of cultural items illegally exported from the country. In this country, there is a law on cultural fairs passed to other countries, and the implementation of this directive calls for a change in that law. A administrative decision was made on the basis of Iceland's joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, most respectable president, after this discussion is followed by the proposal being referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u43	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 194/2016 requiring that three types of consumer protection will be adopted in the EEA Convention. It is aimed at ensuring effective consumer protection in the European Economic Area, particularly when doing business on the Internet, but access to ways to solve issues that may arise in dealing with products or on the Internet service has proved to be a failure. For example, changing or returning online goods may increase people's eyes, resulting in a failure to shop in that field. Thus, the 2013 European Union Regulation establishes a comprehensive set of legislation on the solution of issues raised by Internet and electronic instruments. The Regulation sets up a central database for consumers and sellers who want to look for solutions to a problem that has arose from the online business. The database is simple in use and will be available in Icelandic. The 2015 implementation protocol provides detailed guidelines for the use of the database. However, it is not enough to set up an electronic database to strengthen the online business position of consumers. The premise that the database works as it is supposed to be that consumers are actually accessed by non-custal judges. Thus, at the same time as the Regulation, there was a decree to resolve the issues of consumers outside the courts, which will bring in the Regulation in fulfillment. The directive recommends a general principle of non-authority resolution of issues due to conflict in terms of national and cross-border duties when both traders and consumers are placed in the European Economic Areas. The induction of these types calls for changes in the legal laws on cash markets, service purchases, and consumer purchase laws. So a administrative decision was made on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, a respectable president, after this discussion, a suggestion will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u44	Madam President. There's another good thing going on here. So today, to a growing extent, a store is moving to the Internet. We'll travel more. In all of this, it is vital that consumers have resources and are protected for their rights. That's why I'd especially like to welcome it to the highest. The minister of state gives us this good EEA directive, which includes major legal reforms for consumers and is another example of good things coming from Brussels.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u45	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 215/2016, which measures the implementation of the European Commission Regulation from 2015 of emissions of carbon dioxide from transport into the EEA Convention. The directive sets up a system to monitor the emissions of carbon dioxide from transport. Is this done by monitoring, reporting, and certifying carbon dioxide emissions. The directive covers the release of ships of more than 5,000 different bridgetons, but most of it is passenger and transport vessels, where most other ships are the exception of the Regulation, including fishing and fishing vessels. According to walking agency, no ships above 5,000 bridgetons are registered in this country. So no Icelandic ship is currently infested. Under the Regulation, the person responsible for the ship's activities is obliged to monitor its carbon dioxide emissions. The information on the release should be summarised in a report, which is subsequently made by the competent authority and submitted to the competent authority. In the event that an Icelandic ship falls under the scope of the Regulation, the emissions will be submitted to the EFTA and the EEA. When the mobilisation report is in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation, the applicant must issue a confirmation of the materials with a so-called conformance document that should always be brought aboard the ship. The largest change in the Regulation in this country is that in the case of rejection, there is an increased opinion on whether an agreement agreement is on board within the ships that fall under the Regulation. In this way, the Regulation requires that the European Economic Area be established a legal system in order to comply with the regulations set out in the Regulation. However, countries that do not have any state ships that fall under the Regulation are reserved for the repair system, but the EFTA Commission has already been informed that Iceland will use this exception. The implementation of the Regulation calls for changes in climate laws. So a administrative decision was made on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, most respectable president, after this discussion is followed by the proposal being referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u46	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 100/2016, which measures the implementation of the European Commission decision from 2015 on pollution prevention in the EEA Convention. The decision under consideration is made on the basis of the 2010 European Parliament's Directive on integrated pollution prevention methods. On the basis of a directive, the criteria for the specific contamination activities are set out in the form of a carried out test. Such decisions are called the results of best available technology, but for the best available technology in this case it refers to measures used to minimise pollution and waste production. The results of best available technology are relevant in publishing the workforce, but at the launch of the National Competent Authority in this country, the requirements for the use of best available air pollution technologies are applicable. The procedure discussed here provides results of best available technology due to production of wood-derived albums. The results include production in a factory that can produce more than 600 cubic meters of wood plates per day, but according to EEA data, such production has not been authorised in this country. Since the decision-making directive has not been implemented into Icelandic correctly, there is no improvement in the implementation of the decision. So they set out a administrative priority on its recording at the EEA Convention on the part of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, a respectable president, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 70/2012, climate. The bill, on the one hand, includes the introduction of EU monitoring regulations, reporting and testing of carbon dioxide emissions from transport. However, it is suggested in the bill that the time of provisional regulations V to the law will be extended by one year, while the scope of a commercial reporting system will be extended in flight. The EU report on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from transport means that beginning on January 1, 2018, emissions from passenger and transport ships exceeding 5,000 bridgetons will commence monitoring. The effectiveness of the Regulation will be small in Iceland, since no ships greater than 5,000 bridgetons are now available in Icelandic shipping fleet. V.E.G. President. The bill suggests that temporary V. regulations will be extended for one year, and so will be in effect in 2017. The regulations stipulate a narrow range of the EU's emissions-release business systems in terms of flying activity. The commercial system originally applied both for flying in the European Economic Area and for flying in and out of the EU. However, the value of the flying system has been limited to flying within the European Economic Area since 2013 because it was hoped that global measures could be reached to reduce emissions from flight within the International Environment Agency. The Agency has reached its conclusions in the case and concluded in 2016 that from the year 2021 onward, global monitoring of emissions would take place. As a result, the European Union decided that it would be appropriate to continue to limit the commercial range for flying in the European Economic Area to 2021. The European Union Regulation on this subject is subtracted, but it is expected to be adopted by the European Union by the end of 2017. According to the Icelandic law, V's regulations were temporary in terms of climate laws throughout the last year, which means that the value of the business system is now being targeted on all flights, including flights outside the EEA. For this reason, the V directives must be extended temporarily, allowing for a narrow framework of the business system and the implementation of emissions no later than 30 April 2017. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be referred to. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A fine tour of this matter by the secretary of the environment. Perhaps the article will explain how small this is, I don't know if I should say that, or at least how little it can do. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The effectiveness of EU regulations will not be great in Iceland, where only passengers and transport ships greater than 5,000 bridgetons and larger than the above claim to have no such ships under the Icelandic flag. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because, obviously, the Commission is implementing a Regulation relating to the EEA Convention, whether or not they think there is enough to be done here. The report says that this size did not include too much charge for shipping companies. This obviously has no effect here, and I don't know if this will be new in any way in our work when it comes to climate and the good goals that we've only been through. But here's what we're going to say, by permission of the President: The decision to apply the Regulation only to ships greater than 5,000 grosstons was taken to reduce the administrative burden of a shipping company. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would see if any domestic rules would remain necessary, regardless of how the administration would be handled, that would include other ships.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. Senator. He asks if there is enough work to be done, and he correctly tells us that this is the case with the change in transport ships over 5,000 bridgetons, but there is no such Icelandic ship. Of course, passengers come to the country that is so big. In fact, it is also a law to extend certain rules or conditions of the business system on flight. About a question why. A senator is my opinion that we should take a good look at it by the Icelandic shipping fleet and then the fishing ships too - and that is in my opinion - how we remind the emissions of greenhouse gases from the seaside and, of course, our fish ships. This will be a part of the government's plan of action on climate matters. The seaside road has been very successful until now, but there's been a slight delay. The challenge is still there, but it has slowed greener developments there. But people in that sector have shown that they are willing, and we need to push again. It is a project for the next few days and months.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'd like to say that I chose the wrong word when I spoke of a small matter; for certainly, as the highest. A minister came on, this takes on more factors than just the one I came in on; I may have been too much on that point. The report on the bill also tells of an monitoring, certification and reporting system to work on the EU target. It says, by permission of the president: The first step to allow EU greenhouse gas emissions targets to be covered by marine emissions is to implement a secure monitoring, certification and reporting system for carbon dioxide emissions from transport. It is expected that they will later be replaced by a further amount of emissions. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister, a little more specific. Does this mean that there are no ships registered to this size that we will not establish this system? Still, there are natural passenger ships that set sail here, like the highest. The minister came in. Or does this mean that we will establish a administrative system which, in turn, can be used to apply any similar directives to other ships, such as the highest. A minister came in handy and was glad to hear that work has already begun there? Then came the highest. A minister insinuates that flight is completely excluded, which is a minor embarrassment in general of the world's climate. Then I'm not looking at Iceland at all, but it's a question of what's going on with them. I don't expect a minister to answer me long ago on that, I just wanted to come in on it. It's always taken out of the parenthesis. I wanted to ask directly into this monitoring, certification and reporting system. Will there be anything that will be so useful?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u51	I want to tell you about the monitoring systems and the testimony systems about the ships that I think they're fine, since we Icelanders don't even have ships like this, except those who sail in our jurisdiction. It's a passenger ship, and I also understand a container transport ship that goes from country to country. But that's exactly what they're going to do. I think it is soon considered better to have it in some international context than that we are specifically setting up a special monitoring system in Iceland. I think that's a good way to go this way, that we're doing this in cooperation with other countries and in international context. No, there are no plans to do this specifically for Iceland for the reasons I've been tracking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution. The bill suggests changes due to the implementation of European Parliament directives and the Council No. 75/2010, industrial emissions. At the same time, changes to the version of the job are proposed, including taking into account the implementation of the directive. The bill was formed at the Environment and Resource Ministry, having agreed with the European Union, the Employment Organization, the National Health Monitoring Centre in Iceland and the EEA. In addition, the bill began an open reporting process online. The Industrial Emission Directive combines seven older EU greenhouse gases with integrated pollution measures. All but one has been recorded on the EEA contract and created here on the country. This new directive involves re-vising the update of the relevant EEA types as the purpose is to enhance the clarity of the rules. That's what this bill is all about. Strategies for air pollution prevention have been reported to affect specific contamination activities which have gone beyond previous directives. The directive is based on a comprehensive approach to take into account the overall environment, i.e. to reduce emissions, water and soil in waste management and to meet the requirements for energy efficiency and disaster prevention. Amongst the directive's main directives are decision making on the best available technology, or BAT, and their value through the development of so-called data on the best available technology, i.e. BAT protocols. BAT protocols are criteria which are expected that the European Commission will agree with Member States and Member States on specific activities. In accordance with the directive, direct refer to the relevant BAT protocol in enterprises. The Directive places high emphasis on linking Directive 2004/35/EC on environmental responsibilities to develop emphasis on processing and submission of basic environmental reports. It is thus assumed that, at the end of business in certain companies, the quality of the environment is regained, e.g. Industrial cover should be returned to the same condition as the baseline report. The bill has made significant changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention due to the implementation of the directive. It is suggested that key elements be recorded in that law and then further developed in a Regulation on the basis of the law. The bill also suggests a change in work permit distribution, taking into account the implementation of the industrial emissions directive and the government policy of improving the attitude and access to administration. It is important to review and evaluate the need for some activities to be subject to work permit. In this context, it is important to consider whether non-licensive methods are capable of achieving the objectives of pollution prevention and loyalty, such as registration of specific activities. The bill suggests that the importance of the MAH should be reduced and that it will only be available when it is needed in terms of the scope and nature of certain functions. It is assumed that a minister will be allowed in a Regulation that certain activities should be subject to the registration procedure in place of an employee's permit. If the bill is legalized, the Ministry is expected to cooperate with the main economists to review and assess in the event of a registration warrant. The bill also suggests that the entire work permit will be carried out by the EEA starting January 1, 2019. This is to ensure that the same requirements will be set out for comparable activities throughout the country. It is suggested that the EEA accepts registrations from operators on an electronic portal and informs them of the rules they must meet. The licenses to be registered can be assumed to be mainly authorised by the National Competent Committee (HCP), e.g. Homemaking. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for having handled the almost insurmountable task of speaking over such a complex and broad bill. I'm not going to go very close to the bill and all the technical aspects there are, but I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only on the idea of replacing registration in some cases. This is part of a long-term discussion, a business has often complained that there is a lot of work to be done, but it turns out that certain requirements are met, controlled, and everything to be clear about that. V.E.G. The minister took very lightly over that, e.g. Homemaking might belong in a process like this, but if I get it right, it's under the top. The minister himself is in charge of what would be involved. At the first tour of this and to hear this, I wondered if it's advisable, not that I don't have confidence at the present level. Environment Minister, but I wondered if it's the highest power. Each time, he or she, should be asked, be able to specify the activities no longer required or fewer duties and only the registrational requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u54	A respectable president. These are well - thought - out comments and speculations. A senator's license, whether or not we should have it completely prepared and legally stated that some activity is dependent only on registration, not on a particular license. This change must be considered with my words from earlier in mind. We have goals for pollution control and loyalty practices that we need to submit to, and that will always be. There are special laws, but there are shades of activity, such as a factory that is contaminated or, like a whale, contaminated. A senator came in, whether or not we're talking about homemaking, as here has been called in the daily conversation of airbub license. Does such a operation need to accept demands or responsibilities that are in the laws on loyalty and pollution? I'm pretty sure people agree that these two examples do not apply exactly the same rules. Here it is clear that we make these adjustments so that homemaking is actually a duty, not an occupation. We've been changing, we've done it at last council, we've been working on it, but that's not enough. [[The president calls.]] The objective is to move these activities to the surface is that by allowing people to report instead of applying for special permission, we will make this much more open.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Now I may well be misunderstood, and if not for the first time, but as I've read this, it's not really a complete list of jobs that could be changed on this issue, that no longer need a license, it's just a registration duty. Probably this is something that we will discuss both in the head. Environmental and transport committees and then forward with the work of this case. If it's about what I can totally agree to be a good goal, to get airbnb activity on the surface, I wondered if it should just be said in the bill itself. I agree with the highest. Minister to me I am absolutely certain that there are all kinds of activities that need not be under the strictest rules on loyalty and pollution control. But I'm also convinced that the more legal it is, the better it is for everyone and that there are more involved when it comes to the administration to decide whether to change such an environment about certain activities. Now we're here to talk about homework, but next year there might be something else and still another, and the next minister will have something else. If so, would you be put in such a absolute list of laws that would simply need to be changed if it was to continue or own this authority at home at the highest level. Minister of each time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-53.u56	A respectable president. Of course, I know why. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee has the case in hand. I'm pretty sure that when he starts to dive into it, he realizes that the hands of a minister are bound more than there may have been. So I simplify this in a short time, it's kind of my entire operation. You can read the entire Annex on how the work is being done, how it is defined. This is very detailed, it says that everything that is presented there is indeed and will be professionally related, and it can never be subject to an appropriate minister. However, it is being opened on e.g. Homemaking, which we have defined, should be acceptable to invite people to stay in the homes of those who are truly housebound, and should be allowed to use their private homes to rent out specific days in the year, 90 days, or which amount to 2 million a year, before we begin to place capital taxes on our income. This activity, e.g. Certainly not contaminated in that sense. Then there's a lot of pressure on garbage and other things. [[The president calls.]] We may be able to squeeze it into later, but this is the thought we are trying to catch.
