ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs requesting deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 469, on credit for expenses in the Haggland tunnel, from Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u2	A respectable president. I take a sound to point out that I think I'm the best. Ministers do not do their best to answer the questions that are addressed to them. I'm going to point it out to you. The president is now pressing for such action. Somehow, I thought that since this government did not have so many problems, so the so-called Ministers would sweat to answer queries. But it doesn't turn out to be. I have two questions for the minister. The second is from March 23rd to the Ministry of Education. Well, I've got a lot of patience about it. It has something to do with employee care on VOLV, and I'm not really going to make a lot of fuss about it. Worse, I have a request from March 8 to the highest. Minister of Justice on the subject of international protection. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A minister has not seen fit to answer that inquiry. Sadly, much too much is involved in the general delay and slowness of the language, the difficulty of taking and working those matters fast. [[The president calls.]] But I would like to encourage the president to ask that these inquiries be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to accept this challenge, but I have a few questions that still remain. The above - answered queries were answered very late, over a month later, one and a half months later, almost three months later after the inquiry. No postponement has been requested due to one of these requests from March 23 and to a respectable president. Here are other queries from March 20th. , February 21, April 6, March 6, and 8, where you have either asked for some time or no. The time passes very quickly for these queries. It's been a good two months since they were laid out, and no answer is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u4	Madam President. Like the previous oar. I'd like to be surprised by the number of times the Ministry is running over the legal deadline to answer the council's inquiries. I asked for March 8th, such as why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. That petition was made for the Minister of Justice, so it had arrived on March 29th. I did research on the situation and received answers yesterday that, because of technical difficulties, there would have been some delay between the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We agreed on a resolution on a new Ministry of March 22, a week before the deadline. A new Ministry went into operation on May 1, one month after the deadline. On one occasion the State Department was the government Department that had information security in the country, so technical difficulties in a town are not directly designed to fill a person with faith and trust in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u5	Madam President. Like other senators who have spoken before me, I want to complain of slowness at the highest level. Counsellors. I have three queries to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. Two of them entered March 7 and March 9, respectively. These are not very complicated questions, but the answers are of great importance in preparing members of the committee for the financial program. I really hope that the answer at least comes from supporting the plan. I'm waiting for the highest. President to join this case. That's completely annoying. Congress officials have to wait for months to answer simple questions to the highest degree. Minister. What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u6	Madam President. I have to agree with my partners on these inquiries. I've got a lot of people that haven't left since early March. This includes a request for the use of antipsychotics to be discussed today, specific discussions. I would have liked to have had the answers to the questions that fit in with the discussion at that time. paritaprevir The Brjánsson S.'s about to go to the health minister's office. I ask: If a health minister can prepare for this discussion in a relatively short notice, why can't these questions be answered? What does it say? There are many questions underneath and in the other matters I have, too. That's a long time ago. It's, for example. has asked for an extension of the inquiry that I mentioned on April 3 and again on May 2. But then the same minister is going to have a special discussion about a similar subject. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u7	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with my partners on low efficiency in the plots, all of them, just like me. I myself send in three queries at the beginning of February. I'd like to reiterate that the legal deadline to answer written inquiries is 15 days active. It's been a week since I got the answers to those inquiries. This is unacceptable. All the inquiries - one was about owner's policy and holding land induction, one about domestic flights, and the third about possession of state-wide resources - there were questions about the minister's policy in these specific matters. Did all the Ministers have to think for three whole months before they could answer simple questions about their course in these points? This is unacceptable. I must say, the last government did much better with answering questions. [[The president calls.]] At least you didn't have to wait for three months, though some may last a few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about land activation. I finally got the answer to the inquiry, saw it yesterday. Environmental and food production issues are the future major issues. Iceland is very early in the production of green energy, i.e. the activation of falling water and aquifers. In those areas, there has been an enormous knowledge of land in recent decades that we should be able to communicate to other nations to the best of our ability. Our role in various evolutionary cooperation projects is to form well - versed areas, as well as the media of knowledge about land healing, marine soil, and, above all, in equality, to name something. To return to the energy production here on the land and to the future view of energy policy. Land activation is an enormously powerful power company owned by the nation. The activities of Land activation have had a positive effect on the quality of life in Iceland, both with increased safety, exchange of electricity and high currency revenues. The quality of life we have here in the form of relatively inexpensive green energy is by no means automatic. It is therefore of great importance that the government should continue to exist. In an answer I received from the highest. The secretary of finance recently regarding the government ownery in terms of litigation shows that it is not possible to represent the company in part or in all respects. That's very good news. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson has proposed a synoptic decree, along with members of Parliamentary Congress for the continuation of U.S. government contracts. The article will discuss some of the issues involved. to suggest that the director of national activations has pointed out that the company's financial situation is becoming stronger and more exploitable. By the end of 2016, the percentage of autologous land reactivations was 45.4% and has never been higher. This will lead to a gradual increase in profits in the common funds of the country. They could be worth up to a hundred and twenty billion. in the next three or four years. The government intends to set up land induction policy, it was found in the reply of a minister, and it is therefore very important at the point where the general will of this case is made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u9	Madam President. We get a lot of e - mails from associates and organizations and representatives of projects, asking for help on the basis of financial difficulties. It's hard to take care of this, especially if you're in a position of government, and it's hard to see trouble in a very important job. This is often a humanitarian or humanitarian or cultural work. I am pleased with the grandfather of four grandchildren who do not suffer from chronic illness, but not all grandparents, as everyone knows. There are an organization Guided by four employees who were founded in 2012. Their role is to improve the lives of families of long - suffering children and to hold a grieving group of parents who have lost children because of long - term or chronic illness. They have worked for collection and government grants that have worked until the end of 2016, and now they wish guide after State's arrival in accordance with the 2012 V.A. declaration and a report by the expert on the good skills of the Community. What happens then? I'm going to read here from a guidelight newspaper article, with the permission of a president: During the past February, the Ministry of Health and the Government were meeting with the Minister of Health on the grounds of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A., on February 1. The minister promised to consider the matter and to be in touch with the government, but no answers have been received despite the many efforts there. Neither minister nor his assistant have answered any requests nor asked for meetings or messages. A complete silence has arrived at Handlight. And go on: ▪ Who will accept this category if the U.S. secretary of health is not even able to have a conversation with the informed and specialized health professionals who care for the sickest children of the country? Madam President. Now I ask, what do we do? Senators? Why don't we be guides and how much more so? Health Ministers and financial and economic ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u10	A respectable president. On May 1, many shared in the battle day of the workers, showed solidarity and support. Yesterday, May 2, was also a festival day for working, and ordinary people in Iceland, 25 years had passed since the signing of the EEA Convention, this long biggest and most important international contract made by Iceland. But did the Icelanders agree on the quality of the EEA deal 25 years ago? Oh, no. The independent party was at a convention in 1991, but after the election, the blackmail occurred, and in spite of all the miracles, it may not have passed. True, he split up on the vote here at the council. Both the Allied Alliance and the Frontaurants met one category complete and exclusive with the EEA Convention throughout the whole Foreign Minister Act, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, in front of the letter. The leading advocates of recovery predicted that everything would go down here to hell, a foreign fleet would rob us of our fish, foreign workers will take from us our jobs, and foreigners will buy up rivers and land. Heavy words were dropped, even to the loss of independence. Who can think of today? Do anyone know that Norway is not a sovereign state or EU countries, Denmark, Sweden and Germany? Whatever the case, the EEA has brought prosperity to the nation. Economic, professional, social and cultural. A valuable link is in the fields of education, and Icelanders have enjoyed important scientific and educational skills. Hence, there is reason to welcome this milestone, and especially to lift the edge when the parent is dying at the highest point. The secretary of state makes a public statement, and he will not be upset about how successful this cooperation has developed. Perhaps this indicates that the hold can see the light, be prepared to look up and down in the future, work to stabilise a suitable currency for active participation and participation in other European countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u11	Madam President. I'd like to do here to talk about what has been called a 90-day boarding permit. Our meeting on a budget board has made representatives of our community and has made this bill very significant comments, both because our communities are not getting reports of who they are, and then they are concerned about the surveillance. The same thing happened when we discussed it at the council, and we were worried about the surveillance factor. Not only have we been concerned that our surveillance is not good enough but it should draw out on the surface those who were in black activity, but, unfortunately, it has not been the case, as I think. There are very few, I understand, who have applied for such lodging. Then, too, the cost is much greater. All of this was to be much simpler, not burdensome. I think the price should have been around 8,000 bucks. but since then, people who have applied have been paid health care bills, higher property taxes, etc. even from renting the cottage or in another house where it belongs and is authorized to rent in this way. It seems to be flying this case, and I think we have to check it out. It is shocking if one member of the county in the capital area is to oversee the whole country. Each of them knows that it doesn't work out. Just that there is one person who's supposed to take care of this, we'll be able to look over this again and consider it better. It's also shocking if there's not some process going on that says that when someone is applying for it, it's reported to the countryside. They have a right to take an out on these income companies, the communities that have come to us on a financial committee, say they don't know anything about this and they don't get reports about it. This is something we have to fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u12	Madam President. We Icelanders are rich in resources, but not good at negotiating the price for their use. A factory favors, e.g. A catch rate far under the market price. During the campaign, the Reunioners agreed with us in the United States that a public export would be the most efficient way to return the money of the fish harvest to the nation. Expenditures produce fair competition between marine export companies and guaranteeing smaller companies access to dinner. Today, those assigned to eat a stew can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad. For some time now, the weight of cod is at 180k's funeral. But the price of hunting that flows into the treasure of the state is only 11 cents. The codfish has never been bigger than this year. During the coming fishing years, it is likely that there will be a good supplementary charcoal. Let us say that the extra would be moderate, or 20 of you. a ton of tons like last year's fishing. If the eaters got all they could from over 5% of those who went elsewhere and rented away, they'd get $3.6 billion in rent and $200 million of it in the form of a fishing fee. If in public circulation there is a much lower price, e.g. 50 bucks. a pound, a billion straight into a government fund. If there is a proposal for the next fishing year, which begins in September, an additional resort must be made to begin immediately in preparation for an invitation if not merely to switch the extension from one to the other. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Katrín Friðrún Friðriksson, the House of Parliamentary Reunion, who serves on a budget committee, does not think it would be a good idea to offer out the additional box, whether it will be placed in the next fishing season or at any other time of the ideal season, using the income to promote the health system. This could result in a partial fulfillment of his campaign promise of a farewell invitation and the promise to promote the health system. There's two birds that could be hit in one time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's no secret that I find this interesting to approach. The goals are good. I can fully agree with that. Senator. I'm of the opinion of this particular case, of course, of course. A senator has mentioned this, that there is a better chance of testing a new root if we go this way, when it enters Icelandic jurisdiction. We can take the mackerel at one time, as an example, a story that may have been rough. A senator and more than I know better, for I fear that intervention in this fiscal system could have a negative impact on the work being started in these spoken words, and I am setting up such high expectations, a case that has considerably larger and more long-term interests in my opinion, though we pursue in the same direction. Then I refer to the work that is about to start during those days with a commission given by a sea chief. It's a parapolitic committee that doesn't have much time. It has time out the year for suggestions. What makes the work even more exciting is that all the members of the Committee have members at the council, not according to Congress, but one representative of a member to make it clear that the classes'viewpoints are presented. I suppose there's a lot of things going on with us. I believe that the subject will be discussed with great intensity and honesty. Our mission is to recommend how to change the system of payment for the use of our national resources into, through, and through, the health system. I believe that this work brings results that have long-term benefits in mind. I'm enjoying representing the Committee to Reorganize. I look forward to work. I will, in a spirit of restoration, promote views on the way out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity today to encourage the United States of Congress to be seen on the march of Peeta, which will be on Saturday, May 6th. as a reminder of those who have taken their own lives. From darkness to light, it is called the hall, for it walks at four o'clock in the morning light. You see, there are far too many people in this country who feel that they will never get to light, who do not know where to look, and who have become ill that suicide will be the result. We who wake up daily in the morning light should encourage an open discussion of the danger of suicide. If another disease or accident took away so many of us as mental illness does, we would not discuss much else. It is estimated that some 5,000 people a year are thinking about suicide in Iceland, including 600 of which attempt suicide according to public figures. Likely, we all know someone who has taken his own life. Therefore, we must do everything in our power to intervene and discuss the matter. In the first phase of the problem, however, we must not react to those who suffer from mental illness. If left unchecked, however, the problem can quickly come to a worse conclusion. We know too many of that. Peeta will in the future offer free and accessible services for suicidal persons, individuals who will need assistance or access service within 24 hours of the call. As an Irish model, the house will also be in an apartment environment, characterized by a beautiful, pleasant environment where all with suicidal problems have free access to free counseling. This is natural support. This is natural to enter the light because it is a privilege to see the light every day. We'll walk into the light on Saturday morning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u15	A respectable president. I can't say anything about words at the highest. Secretary of the budget for the morning paper today. There, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Minister on the budget of the Hospital, by permission of the President: ▪ Our country hospital is taking an increase in our numbers, and it compares with its desire for financial support and believes that the increase has been cut down because of its lack of wishes. I have to say, at the moment, I think this vision is the best. Ministers in the financial and mental status of the Land Hospital, talking about the developed land hospital plan for what it takes to carry out the legal tasks entrusted to them as some list of wishes, such as some list of Christmas gifts, about what would be in the best world in all possible homes. I'm kind of sorry. In order to secure the services they are being performed, the hospital has made clear what is needed to keep sead in the hospital business. These funds do not pay off, which means that the hospital has to cut down services. It's not that complicated. This is not a request list. Rather, it is an updated plan on what is needed by the hospital to render needed service. That doesn't mean anything for the highest. Secretary of finance to minimize these programmes by calling them wishes and saying that not everyone can get what they want. It's just an inexpensive political plan. V.E.G. A minister is supposed to be a man to say that there is not a political will for the government to finance the Land Hospital properly. If he did so, he would become greater than that, instead of hiding behind something like that. Sometimes I feel like the highest. The secretary of finance lives in an excel document and doesn't see that behind the numbers that are really needed, people have real needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u16	V.E.G. President. The General Assembly is now in charge of the government budget until 2022. In this area it is assumed that transport tax will be increased to the top level. This scheme can produce strong and negative results, especially for small and medium-sized tourism agencies outside the capital area. The position of tourism in the scattered regions of the country is not at all the same as in the southwest corner. It is the fact that tourism is now experiencing an increase in prices compared to competitive countries. The crown's gang has increased largely, making any price rise abruptly to foreign sales. It is well known that even low prices in tourism can have a major impact on the decision of tourists at their destination. This adds additional factors affecting prices and management conditions, e.g. increase in host tax rate and increase in pay over the last two years. Substitution of the government's plans and, unfortunately, can have a strong negative impact, especially with respect to less and medium-sized tourism in the region. The positive structure that has occurred in most parts of the world has increased job opportunities and is stronger based. It involves a regional policy of protecting the tourism companies in the country. It is sad to think that governments will not take into account the positive effects of this structure, rather than consider strengthening the sustainable development of tourism and thus its own communities. A respectable president. Of course, we need to get funding from this big business, but the candidates and I feel that there are other ways to go. We'd like to put the charges on our return to the country and use them to steer the tourist stream. For example, during the summer and below the winter, the return rate could be higher. Also, a lower comet charge could be held at an airport, such as, for example. In Akureyri or in Egls. We would also like the advanceers to be in relative terms, since we do not think it fair for a man staying at a camphouse to pay the same rent as a guest hotel in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u17	A respectable president. Last night, 2nd's over. About passenger transport and cargo bill. It would be so fun for us to have a good time. The Environment and Transport Committee was able to combine one committee opinion, and I am very pleased. You see, there is a parapolitic reconciliation about how we want to develop these matters. So I'd like to discuss today a different subject on this line, which is the city line, a project that is very important and important here in the capital area. There is also a transnational reconciliation between classes that appoint both mayor and town governments in the capital area. I'd like to direct members of the Parliament to study the comments of the Conspiracy Association in the capital area on the financial agenda, where they might well present this idea and explain how well they feel about the project. The city line goes on to build here high - quality civilizations that are in a special space and therefore independent of public traffic. This will be of great importance to the development here in the capital area and is our only opportunity to further increase the number of people who use public transportation. All the work that follows the city line and the regional structure has been well considered to be economically practical. It saves society from going to urban infrastructure instead of going into the root structure, not to talk about the environment, since, of course, this is extremely important in this context. This is no war with the private car. It's like the equal struggle; it's not women against men. Or cars against public transportation. It's going to be really good together. I hope here in this hall can be as much at peace as has been achieved by the city and village religions here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u18	V.E.G. President. It's a good thing we come up here one by one, the Committee on Environment and Transport, and we'll talk nationally about transportation. I'm going to look my eye out to the shore, and I'm especially glad that the result was reached on Friday, last, that, as they say, it was in the Vedal Passage. This is especially enjoyable, especially because many had doubts about this project. When difficulties swept along with all the water coming from the tunnel, both hot and cold, it was even in the flash. In reality, however, the construction of this project will be of immense importance to the entire Northland and, of course, the whole country. It will be much safer to travel through the Northeast. This is going to connect settlements, expand employment areas, and this is how I can continue. I'd like to congratulate us on this stage and also wish those who are making that work a success in the continuation until we can start driving through there and pay for it as we are all ready. At the end, I want to direct my eyes east to a land where the soil has truly changed the situation to shore. Now, the time has come for us to take seriously the matter of walking under the Empress, where the Southlands live. That, when that decision is made, will mean that life there will flourish, as we have seen happening, e.g. while sailing, the Wall of the Earth was in use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u19	A respectable president. I'm going to talk to you about a hospital service with helicopters or hospital transportation with helicopters. A great deal of talk has been made about buying new helicopters for the National Reservation Guard, which are very important. In search and rescue, as well as in medical transportation under difficult conditions, theálves play a very important role, handling the supplies needed for today's helicopter. But when we speak of an outside hospital service with a helicopter, special hospital choppers are being referred to to to as a means of transportation only. It is designed to provide specialized assistance to the stage of an illness or accident that is short - term, since the first few minutes are always important, as well as to provide support for the reaction at home in the region. That's extremely important. It is important that while talking about the helicopters of the Land Guard, which are very important, this is a very different helicopter that is less in appearance with a different crew and a whole different cost. These costs may not be the same, but other helicopters will remain important in difficult situations, especially at sea. I think we should be together to take a look at this. Now that summer is about to begin and the pressures are going to increase very much in the outside hospital service, we will see the need for this. Similarly, with such helicopters, we do not react from the region to ferry a patient over a long distance in a hospital in the capital area; rather, it would be done in this way. This is also particularly important for such a place as Western Islands, who have been completely mobile for the last few days, where medical flights are, unfortunately, not properly located to care for it, this could increase the reaction there considerably. [[The president calls.]] That's how it is done in all our neighboring countries and beyond.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u20	Madam President. During these past few days, the debate and the work at the council have been marked by an existing financial program until 2022. Understandably, this discussion has given us much attention to the health - care program, one of the basic elements that we as a community have gathered to protect - all of us. A report entitled by McKinsey - co-ordinated with the Ministry of Health, the National Institute of Health, and the National Hospital to explain what changes must be made in the Icelandic Health Department to direct the trend toward a global service for the nation - shows that Iceland, when quality health care is compared between countries, is a measure of inexplicability, which will likely contribute to the use of more money than is needed. The report is clear that it appears to lack a complete medical policy. All the differences in the nature of the discussion, such as about some health institutions, are important and are useful to improvement, especially for the individual institutions. But I want to take this opportunity here, tops. President, also discussing the important point of the report as a whole. No organization within the system is an island but a part of a whole. Increased attention to health care, the growing number of nurses, and the presence of specialists is to make up all the things that should put into practice for the sake of other institutions, for the sake of the Land Hospital. I wanted to mention this to remind you of the importance of the overall vision during the discussion as well as to celebrate the fact that in the existing financial programmes, financial support is expected to put on such a complete agreement. There is much work to be done by focusing on such work in behalf of the whole system and better service to all patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u21	A respectable president. Knowledge is power, we know today, and we have known centuries. In the past, people took advantage of patent knowledge to keep others in the dark. I'm not gonna have many words about it, but there's no reason to have a history lesson at this place this time. Knowledge and information are the basis for democracy anywhere in the world. Knowledge enables the public to observe local rulers. The access to information is one of our missions to Pirata. Now I received advice from a member of the country in which he runs his trials in his dealings with the secretary of transportation. Thus, the Ólöf term Nordal has been assigned to the Vega project to cover highways 1, i.e. Whether it would be reasonable for him to hang through the Bedinals of During the During Dura to Eglish Status or the Fjords. This report returned to the Ministry. There's no doubt a delicate piece of paper there, for it divides the Easterns into two states. A person who has been asked to see the report has been denied it. I will, on the basis of information laws demand to get the report, apply for it formally, and will publish it publicly, just to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u22	A respectable president. Icelanders are powerful drug addicts. In this country about 55% of people use a prescription medicine, which is the fourth highest proportion of European countries involved in a recent European physical examination. A report by the Minister's staff a few years ago showed that people used up to 48 prescription items over a 12-month period. Icelanders are strikingly different in their use of drugs in comparison with neighboring countries. We use two or three times as much stimulating drugs, sedatives, and sleeping medication as well as analgesics. It is most used within the OECD countries and 5 times higher than in Denmark. Similarly, the use of antibiotics and peptic ulcers in Iceland is higher than in any other country in the North. The number of people prescribed testosterone in this country may be several times higher than those in neighboring countries, and it has doubled in the past ten years. The use of medicinal products for hyperactivity and attention deficit, ADHD, in this country has increased 4-fold over a ten-year period and is no greater in the world as reported in a recent study. About 13% of all Icelandic boys aged 10 in 14 are taking some form of ADHD medicine. It is much more than usual in other parts of the North, but Sweden is closer to Iceland with a 5% share. Then there is no greater use of antidepressants among the cousins than here and by a lot of about 35 to 50%. Icelandic girls aged 15◯24 take more than four times as much antidepressants as their peers in Denmark. The number of antidepressants used increased by 8,000 people in Iceland between 2014 and 2016, i.e. about 22%. According to the surgeon general's records, it is noteworthy that many of those prescribed for antidepressants are also receiving stimulating drugs and that the number of those receiving such concomitant medicinal products is always increasing. A respectable president. What can be done? I also direct the question to the highest. Minister. What do you do? After all, then, is happiness not proved? The numbers speak for themselves. The facts are on the table. We all record medication. The National Drug Administration Association in Iceland believes that a major increase in drug monitoring is needed. Government reviews believe that the government needs to improve the access of Icelanders to pharmaceutical markets in order to reduce the cost of the State. The surgeon general has few answers. Some time ago, Magnús Jóhannsson, a doctor of the office, told us that no explanation was obvious, that was an old story. It seems to be some kind of drug dump in Iceland and has been doing for decades, the marketing here is similar to that in neighboring countries, and the bioavailability as well. It is then the evaluation of the Executive Director that the high use of anxiety and antidepressants is associated with poor access to the mental health system and the fact that many cannot afford a mental - health service, but now there is effort to deal with the problem. The surgeon general's services have noted a number of possible access issues and mention that in Iceland all physicians can prescribe e.g. ADHD drugs, but in other parts of the North, only experts have that authority. The surgeon believes that high drug use in Iceland is a matter of thought - provoking, especially the antidepressants, and that the medical community has to explain the difference between Iceland and other countries, the presence of depression and anxiety, e.g. more common in this country than elsewhere, whether these medicines are to be prescribed excessively, whether or not there is a lack of other medicines to treat depression and anxiety other than chemotherapy. It's at the top. A minister under this view? And counts at the highest. A minister does not have good reason to discuss these matters extensively and seek to analyze what is the real reason why we are so left to wonder from all neighboring countries in drug abuse? Very much. A minister uses a study and an assessment of what has caused Iceland to have the questionable reputation of taking a global record of drugs? A surgeon, Birgir of Jakobsson, has expressed himself in a way that, in truth, it is not clear what causes this great consumption and that the office has limited potential to find out, only by being able to do so, he is sure that Iceland is not built in like any other country. According to his assessment, the main causes of this finding are the Icelandic medical system and the system changes in the health care sector should be priorities. It's the highest. Minister agrees with this and will he work in the state suggested by the surgeon? This discussion must not be understood without stressing the importance of good medicine. The correct and reasonable use of medicines may reduce other health - care costs with fewer hospitalisations, shorter periods and fewer days of illness, great quality of life, and life - saving lives. Misuse of medicinal products, on the other hand, may constitute a risk for the patient, resulting in waste and high cost. The same applies to the short-term use of medicines. The discussion of the use of the medicinal product should not be one-sided and negative. [[The president calls.]] We face the situation, however, that no action - or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u23	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for starting this important special discussion. It's not a new story, like a cot. A senator mentioned in his talk. Iceland has been different for decades in comparison with neighboring countries, especially with certain classes of medicines. There have been many operations throughout history, especially in later years, in an effort to improve the quality of that position. There are very good and important points. A senator brought in his talk, which I would like to try to answer. I'd like to join many of them, but I'd also like to explain where we are. I agree with a discussion of both surgeons and his workers that it may be difficult to recognize in a relatively small system such as Icelandic, what is the cause or background of medicine use or of the difference, as we know in antidepressants, where Iceland uses more than 100% more drugs than the national population. Still, doing our best to reach a conclusion is very important. It is true that the use of neuropsychological drugs in Iceland is much compared to any other country. There are a number of reasons why Iceland is as high as it turns out. There may be different conditions for each class of medicines, e.g. antidepressants, stimulants, hypnotics and sedatives, sedatives and anxiolytics, antiepileptics and analgesics. Other classes of medicinal products in which Icelands are different with higher use include testosterone, certain antipsychotics, thyroid hormones and coded cough oral solution, opioid analgesics. Thus, in many areas of drug use, Icelanders stand out as different. According to a surgeon, there is no evidence that Iceland is different from other nations about the burden of disease that could explain this difference. Although we have at times heard theories about the northern state of the country and much winter in winter, there are no studies in themselves that suggest that there is a real significant impact on the use of antidepressants. Hv. A senator asks if a minister feels that the reason for the use of a number of drug classes is a deteriorating health service in Iceland or other situation. Of course, it is a little difficult to say yes or no. We just don't have enough research to do that. But we know that there are better things to do in the organization and in the administration of health care. We do not have measurements to confirm such a statement. However, especially when we consider antipsychotics and antidepressants, if it is clear, that we have been submers of neighboring countries, and as we wish to be in a mental - health service, you may be more likely to prescribe drugs than the others. But as I say, we have no confirmation of it. In terms of whether I believe that the health - care system will contribute to a high level of drug abuse, I would like to say that you have to assume that doctors prescribe drugs according to their best medical knowledge. It is true that a surgeon who is involved in monitoring prescriptions and promoting the use of medicinal products in the country has claimed that an important reason for drug abuse in Iceland is a fragile health system in which health care professionals do not cooperate or treat patients in the same way as health professionals from other countries. A surgeon has also mentioned that other social factors, such as school, services to elderly people, and disability users, do not have the same arrangement as those of neighboring nations, and may contribute to the excessive use of drugs. Madam President. I see my time is running out. I'm sorry. Just before I let go of the word and let the discussion continue, I come back at the end, I want to state a new supply of drugs that a surgeon's office holds that one of its biggest roles is just to make it easier for the extravasation and information about the use of drugs that could be used as a guide to try to influence the use of drugs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry I'm late. I have to get back to this in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u24	Madam President. This is an important discussion we have here on pharmaceutical matters, but health services in today's society are changing, at least In part, for good access to drugs - and for that matter, I want to mention specifically and say whatever their economic situation is - that can prevent premature death or prevent disease and thus improve quality of life and community involvement with serious illnesses. This bioavailability is very important, but unfortunately Iceland has been falling back from other northern countries when it comes to the induction of new and expensive drugs. I'm worried that we'll see that this will not necessarily improve in the future with a proposal for a legal arrangement for the coming years that we've discussed here. However, the product debate is responsible for the prevention of abuse or misuse of drugs, e.g. to have easy access - and again I want to say regardless of the economy of those who need it - to other treatments. I would especially like to mention psychological services, for example. I'm sure doctors will try as best they can to prescribe the best possible treatment, but they must, of course, keep their patients' social and financial circumstances in mind. If we do not have other options for the patient, there is a risk that medication will be referred rather than to other measures that will cost the individual more. [[The president calls.]] This must always be kept in mind when discussing the medicines and when discussing the overall health issues, for all of us should be able to obtain the best health care care facilities regardless of their medical condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u25	A respectable president. I would like to call attention to a potential problem that is about to arise in regard to medication intake. As anyone may know, U.S.A., an epidemic of heroin now rages. The epidemic is also an epidemic. ran over the number of people in that country have abused morphine-related painkillers, called opioids. Until recently, they were quite freely prescribed by American doctors. Fortunately, in the Icelandic drug market, heroin has never been established, but it is well known that many addicts use it instead of very similar substances they access through prescriptions, registered opiates such as Contalgin, Oxycontine, and Fentanyl. Recent research shows that the consumption of these strong painkillers has increased considerably in Iceland over the past few years while the consumption was combined in our neighboring countries. A report by the European Medicines Agency in October last year says that consumption of these medicines has increased by 18% in this country. Nine years, but e.g. Pulls together 14% in Denmark over the same period. Within these numbers, however, there are only medicines obtained from the local pharmacy but not those smuggled to the country. So I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister if his ministry has any specific explanation for this development, i.e. not that we always stand out as different as we think that our uniqueness is growing, and whether the consumption of strong painkillers seems to be increasing in a normal way with what we know from other countries. I have no doubt that these figures can have normal explanations, but they seem at first to be of any concern, in view of the public health effects that we know the increased consumption of these strong drugs can lead to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u26	A respectable president. I'm very happy for today's important discussion. It is important that we carry on with this vital assignment. I think that although we don't know the exact explanation, there are probably many, it's a fairly large system problem that we have to figure out and go somewhere else. We will also discuss the lack of financial resources for increased medication involving other diseases, such as cancer. It's not the answer to just raise funding. We need to find out what's going wrong in the system, so we're gonna make the right use of the money that we're putting in a medicine. The question then arises: Is this high drug use an economic issue, with a much less expensive for the person in need of these drugs to consult a mental - health professional who is more likely to use drugs than a psychologist or a member of society such as Conspiracy and other important parties in the Third Ministry? How can we make it easier for people to look for nonmeditated resources? This gives us increased funding for other medicines. We have often heard of this massive drug abuse, often referred to as abuse. Medicinal product trades and sales at the so-called black market, submarket, sub-worldly. Then we can ask ourselves, " How much consumption do we pay with Iceland's taxes? ' We'll fix addictions by having our system like this. This is where we need to find a way to increase the value of the user and reduce the amount of waste in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who supplies this vital and vital discussion by Brjánsson Brotherson. First, I'd like to say that it is very important to achieve a health policy. We must define the ministry, how to provide it, the availability of it, and where to serve. In this context, it is necessary to look to the health - care providers, to increase access to psychologists, and to become part of the work of psychologists in the patient's payment system so that people may be able to attend this service when needed. During the last term, the increase in mental - health status began. Is well, and the project has been speeded up. In addition, there is a need to strengthen those who work with, e.g. behavioural treatment, support within the system, shortening the waiting list by diagnosis so that early intervention can be performed and performed sooner than in many cases today. It has also been observed in the discussion that there is a need for good medicine and that people have access to the best medicines available today and abroad. So I would like to say here that while the discussion is about drug abuse, we have medication to help people live a better life where appropriate, that we look for cooperation, for example. In many cases today, the North countries are offering more pharmaceutical medicines at a more cost, better medicine than we are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u28	Madam President. I would like to start by thanking the advocate for putting this material on the convention program today. How important it is that we take a very close look at and study this development, that we examine its reasons and possible consequences, so that I take my heart to it. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Brunsson. If we believe that there is some evidence that this development is disturbing, we need to be prepared to act. Then I'm going to let myself put also another question forward for meditation, all right to roll up all the stones of this, i.e. whether the use of antidepressants and antipsychotics in this country should only be negative. I don't know. That question is worth pondering over. According to the United Nations, the World's World's Work of Happy Report, Icelanders are the world's third happiest nation and follow it fast on the heels of the Norwegians and Danas. In this context, we can ask ourselves, " Is there a correlation between this, i.e. between drug use and increase in prosperity or happiness. Could it be that we are reducing the possibility of other media abuse, such as alcohol and drugs? Has this correlation been investigated? I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister would be willing to share this with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u29	Madam President. On the page of the Matrix, we have a report from January. carried the heading "ANAMEAggressor " has been drugged and suffers. It says, by permission of the president: girls between 15 and 24 years of age take more than four times as much antidepressants as their peers in Denmark. The suicide rates of boys between the ages of 10 and 19 are not higher in the North than in Iceland. No group takes as much ADHD medicine as boys between 10 and 14 years of age. All of this is shown in a new report by the Norwegian Health Research Committee that compares the national health issues. I want, Madam President, to repeat a question. paritaprevir Brjánsson to the highest. Health Minister: What can be done? It is vital to identify the relationship between the use of antipsychotics and the fact that mental - health times are very expensive, and the same is true of mental - health professionals for a time. One hour at a mental - health practitioner is now costing 15,404k. ... inthenewdocking system. The only depressed treatment for mental - health youths is chemotherapy. The cost of the rest is far too high, and the lack of mental health benefits and the health - care costs are not the result of drug abuse being so high in this country. The lack of funds and facilities in the mental health system must play a key role, or is it just an explanation that in Iceland, a state of so - called drug noise, has been doing for decades, as mentioned in the discussion on these matters, both in a church hall and outside? If so, who will sustain them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For the initiative to discuss the use of drugs in the country and the highest, a member of the Parliament and the advocate of the Guðjón - fearing Brjánsson Brunnson for the initiative to discuss the use of drugs in the country. Healthcare Minister for clear answers. There seems to be a lot of drug use involved in the failure of the health system structure and organization. This has already been failed, including by developing a mental - health policy. I want to look especially at my mental - health issues. In a mental - health program, there is an expected increase in mental - health status. Part of it is also the shortening of the waiting period after the services of the children's and teenagers at the National Hospital and the introduction of tasks entitled Talk About Children/Family Bridges aimed at reducing the risk of mental health control between generations. The interaction between health care and the public is also extremely important. In my opinion, it is probably the most important task of government and rural society to highlight the health benefits, the knowledge, and the consciousness of individuals on exercise, diet, and other medical problems instead of drugs. That is a major challenge facing all of us. To improve health and health, we need to work hard to improve the health of the public and the knowledge of all kinds of resources available to help us improve our health. At the present time, there is a state of awareness of the Peeta organization that uses for the prevention of suicide. Each year more than 40 people take their lives. This is more than twice the number of people who die in traffic accidents. Because my time is over, I'd like to encourage people to join the Peeta Association for Saturday afternoon's walk on the dark night into the light of tomorrow's light to be supportive of the cause and to take part in the encouragement that we do better in this field and help people stay alive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u31	Madam President. This is a matter of discussion. In a way, it has two aspects that are discussed here. On the one hand, it is the fact that Iceland's people use a lot of drugs, especially certain classes of drugs, and it is of course a matter of concern and need to review it in relation to health policies in general, how to correct them and further emphasis on other effective measures, such as depression and mental problems, and general health measures in the system. I must say, however, that more anxiety causes me the fact that in other cases it is not available at all in Iceland and that drugs have not been introduced that can truly make a difference in the struggle between destructive diseases and/or huge human feelings during their lifetime. The situation seems to be this, unfortunately, and this has been an attempt to dive a little bit in the context of a financial agenda, that Iceland is falling back or more back again, apparently, the countries we've tried to compare ourselves with and hang ourselves in the back. It has often provided guidelines for the Northern Nations or Britain, even simply so that we tried to set the limit of being never more than a few months later to accept new drugs derived from other parts of the north or in the United Kingdom. They are now uncertain, even in the present year. In some respects, it plunges into the future of a new financial program. This is one of the most overwhelming things you will face in a truly new world, but it is often very expensive, even to a few individuals who suffer from rare health problems. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the cost may be very high, as the pharmaceutical business is combined, and until the price of medication begins to decline after it has been used for a period of time. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's going to be a good idea to go over these factors in connection with the financial process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u32	Madam President. In recent years there has been a significant increase in the prescriptions of antidepressants, or an increase of about 20% in the last five years, according to a recent report by the surgeon. These medicines can be a vital part of improvement for many, but this increase brings attention to the fact that the people of Iceland had a global record of antidepressants. Thus, our attitude is to increase rather than that. In that case, there is a particular concern that the largest increase is relatively much in the youngest. In four years, in just four years, the consumption of antidepressants by young people 15◯19 years has increased by 60%. This is an enormous increase. It is no doubt partly attributable to what has been attributed to a second or so. Congress officials, how expensive it is to pursue a psychological service in this country, but it is not overreached, as is other necessary treatments for serious illnesses. In spite of this, doctors agree that antidepressants alone do not solve any serious mental illness. Total therapy must be followed with the administration in order to achieve efficacy. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Ministers whether he agrees that in view of these figures, additional availability of psychological treatment is necessary, in excess of what is expected in a different good mental - health program. At the same time, I would also like to encourage as many as possible to participate in the Peeta march that was mentioned earlier, expecting some change to be made in this category, the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u33	A respectable president. This discussion of drug abuse has been a bit of a focus on antipsychotics and hypnotics and, in fact, drugs that youths need because of behavioral problems, ritalin, etc. But I'm going to start by saying that medication is one of the greatest inventions of the human being and that has improved quality of life and reduced and eliminated whole diseases. But it is natural to handle everything properly, and it is not the exception. I want, for example. Talk to your doctor about a condition such as tuberculosis. There was a complete transition in the middle of the last century to the treatment of tuberculosis. At least they've been destroyed in Western lands. Similarly, in the middle of the last century, there was significant improvement in mental - health medicines. They changed the situation of those who had mental illness. The Agency did not become the only solution. Many individuals could be restored. I often wondered if the use of antidepressants is good or bad. It was noted earlier that Icelanders had the happiest nations. Maybe there's a connection. But sometimes I say to myself, " Is the nation tired enough? ' Various diseases can be corrected by dealing with and getting tired. I often sleep much better when I'm tired. I often feel much better when I'm tired. Perhaps some diseases can be cured with simple solutions. But a respectable president, my time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. Brjánsson for starting this discussion. I was going to say certain things, but I'm going to be in the middle of a speech. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son to mention that, for example. ADHD is a disease, there is a neurological disorder in the front brain, it is not a problem of behavior. Depression is a metabolic disorder. Although these diseases and disorders have nothing to do with deserts, of course, good living helps and all prevents them greatly when people deal with such diseases and disorders. A few of them. Senators have done well with numbers and information about this. Many who have lived abroad have warned that we are being overwhelmed by stress from Iceland. Stress is highly contagious. She'll infect our children. Someone said, "I thought it was pretty good, that maybe we should do more because we listen to our body and breathe in our life. " But this is something that doctors alone do not see as serious a medical problem that we are discussing. Back to what I was going to say. I watched the evening news Stop 2 yesterday. There was an interview with an Icelandic specialist in Oslo. She mentioned that a surgeon's pharmacology was defective and that she repeatedly identified it. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will consider this matter further and take action. The indication is available and should be considered. I would like to agree with what more people have said about improved access to mental - health services. This is very important and there is a reduction in diagnostic waiting lists. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to use further improvements in the availability of psychiatric services as well as measures to shorten a waiting list for analysis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u35	Madam President. I would like to take advantage of my second talk and ask a second question, pointing to the highest point. Minister, but it may be rather involved in a study between the compliance between the use of the medicinal product and the home. Today, we are not the only people who enjoy long - lasting darkness and bad weather conditions, which we often talk about affecting our well - being and even our mental well - being. Dose-day depression is a term we know most of, and we may be familiar with many people who feel that this is a health problem that goes on for weeks and months, i.e. if we have not even felt it ourselves. So I would like to ask a minister if he knows whether any cross - line studies have been conducted in the north, where long and strict winter months can affect people's mental well-being and emotional well-being, followed by increased mood or anxiety use.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for the discussion. So Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir suggested whether the use of antidepressants was negative. I don't think so, because as any member of the country knows, drugs, antidepressants, improve quality of life, even perform miracles and life - saving lives. Regarding another question, whether such medicines have been studied, the highest could occur. I'm sure Minister will answer that better than I do. I know, however, that there are Norwegian research, long and narrow, and there is no exactly any difference between parts of the country. The weekly depression may not hold up. I'd like to put three questions to the top. Minister at the end. During a period of Ministers after Ministers, we have discussed cooperation with the North countries on a joint purchase of pharmaceuticals. It seems like a little foggy, but at a minister's words a few weeks ago, if I don't remember, I could understand that there might be some news on the way. Is there something going on in the developing North countries to make more efficient purchases, the highest? Minister? In the end of the election, Björður discussed the future of taking advantage of all the best drugs available to Iceland. Will that be the reality? They've already been financed by the highest promises. Minister? Finally, and I'd like to ask the Minister of the Supreme Minister. starting with that question, and I'll repeat my previous question. I would like to hear the position of a minister in order to get into the stitches of it, of scholars and professionals, how it is said that the Icelands consume more drugs than others, saying more than the rest of the world have. I've been hoping for an introductory answer. Will a minister take a special examination of these matters that are not small? People's health may be at stake, not to mention the enormous cost and even waste that may be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u37	Madam President. I'm gonna talk fast and try to answer. I will not be able to answer all the questions that have been directly addressed to me but will try. The final question is, "What?" To say yes, the brief answer is yes. I believe that it must be considered, but the surgeon's office plays a key role in this, especially, the pharmaceutical database that doctors received full access to 2016 and medical records that have been linked to improve the possibility of more cooperation between physicians in different employment sites than also to monitor the use of medicinal products and prevent the use of medicinal products and prevent the use of other medicinal products. This has to do with questions and speculations that many members of Parliament have brought in with them about the mental - health program and the availability of psychiatrists. Then the answer to a repeated question is that we follow a mental - health program and we are working after it faster than in the schedule, in order to develop a more rapid increase in the number of psychiatrists on the health care provider, which is vital in this context. I would also like to remind you of the cooperation between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Social Affairs and the Union of the European Commission on a school assessment without a separation that will probably also affect the graduation of medicinal products in ADHD and such. During the past 15 seconds, I would like to state that, in cooperation with the secretary of finance, I have been evaluating and preparing funding for new products that were not expected in budgets for 2017. I assume the Committee of Drug Administration will decide on drug conduct at their next meeting. [[The president calls.]] The financial program is expected to increase significantly to the class of medicinal products, including to ensure continued induction. And then I go ahead of time, and I also encourage people to go for Peeta's suicide.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u38	V.E.G. President. May 1st. entered a new pay system of patients validated by law approved at the General Assembly. summer. This is one of the cases that took place in transpiritian reconciliation from which. The welfare committee. One objective of these changes is to protect patients who are far ill from high costs for treatment of disease, patients who have so far had to pay a great deal of expense because of their illness. All of us have heard the discussion and the need for this payment system to be changed for the better. This adjustment in the patient's new payment system is a step forward although there is still a considerable amount of land, and I will direct the discussion to the factors that we candidates focus on as the next steps in these topics. First, let me discuss the progress of the situation. The welfare committee in the last summer, but in the material process, this was also true. It is hard to believe that the payment system could not reach all health services. According to this new system of credits, for example... dentists, psych services, travel expenses, and aid tools outside the system. In the progress of the case in the first place. The health committee considered it desirable for members of the Committee to agree that all health care costs and medications fell into one payment system. However, with the approval of the bill and the implementation of the law, we reached the last terms of taking steps in the right direction and putting away physical and speech training under the general system. In a board of committees why. The Presidency Committee of last spring gave clear counsel that policy should be directed toward adding even more health - care services to the payment system, which would require significant increases in financial resources to the Party. I'll have to read a little bit of a committee party or something. The welfare committee from last summer. It says, by permission of the President: At the same time, it is recommended that the patient's payments be less than the above steps under Regulation. The final figures depend on the budget of the next year, but it is based on the lack of a maximum health insurance budget of 50,000. every year. The committee welcomes the Minister's declaration and believes that they have the assurance that money increases will come to the budget of this year and the budget of 2017, resulting in health care for the health and general maximum health insurance pay of no more than 50,000 dollars. a year 50,000 bucks. The roof was the basis for an interpolitical reconciliation within the Committee during the last term, but now, in the new payment system, it is covered in some cases 70,000 each year. That is not the amount of money that was approved. I am convinced that, in view of the discussion of the welfare committee during the last term, it would not have reached a parapolitan agreement on the payment of this bill, if 70,000 K. The roof would have been submitted when the case was handled. A respectable president. As we examine the national budget, see page 5 of this magazine. 299 and 300 that discuss the payment system are somewhat uncertain the future objectives of these actions. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister to the future plans for further measures in the patient's payment system. Very much. Prior to the end of this ideal period, a minister will take advantage of the opportunity for long - term health care professionals to have free medical systems? It is difficult for individuals to lose their health, even their jobs, when faced with difficult health problems. Important steps are taken by means of a new system of credits but need to be longer. Also, I ask the highest. Healthcare Minister if he intends to combine the health and pharmaceutical delivery system during this optimal period. The association of these two systems makes it necessary in too many cases for patients to cover too much expenses, even though we have introduced a new system of crediting less than ever before. In the end, I'm gonna ask you if it's the highest. The health care secretary will improve more aspects of the health care programme and the steps it will take. There I can mention factors such as further meeting the travel expenses of individuals who need to attend medical or clinic services in Reykjavík and who have to come to Reykjavík for a number of hours and to receive a ministry. Are these individuals to be treated more? What about dentistry and psychiatry? During this discussion, I have considered key factors that were involved. It's a welfare committee. Spring. They were the first steps, but they were fixed in a committee's list of steps. The welfare committee would go further, so I call for answers here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u39	Madam President. Thank you for calling for this discussion and for good questions. Many of these have been discussed before at the council, and it is a pleasure to continue to do so. That's right. A new system was used yesterday. Technically, it was the first day. It is based on health insurance laws adopted at the General Assembly last year after the preparation that had taken place since the fall of 2013 with committee work that gave a cross - politic conclusion. This is an extensive step of progress and justice, e.g. to people who have carried heavy weight because of treatment, such as individuals who are being treated for cancer. Similarly, the system provides protection from family members, disability, and the elderly. The goal is to protect the health insurance from very high payment. The cost of health care will now be spread in a different way to those who seldom need health care more for services and to those who need much service less. The 2017 budget accounts for a total of 1 billion. in addition to reducing the payment of hospitalised health care providers. This is taken into account in the Regulation that was recently published for further implementation on the system. It was the common conclusion of the welfare committee to organize it so that more money would be especially spent on reducing the expense of children's families, micropowers, and the elderly. The new payment system puts roofs on the health insurance payments. A health care professional requiring much medical care will pay for a maximum of 49,200 K. every year. Older people, cripples, and children who need a great or regular service to keep a pay cut to a maximum of 32.800 k. Those who need much service are thus protected from excessive payment. The maximum pay of public health care guarantees that do not require much service will be 24,600 per month and to a maximum of 69,700 bucks. every year. It's just that if a person doesn't have a history for a discount. These are the same figures or criteria that were in the discussion for budgeting last year. There is no increase in figures that were discussed last year. The maximum pay of the elderly, the cripples, and the children who do not need much service will be 16,400 a month and a maximum of 46,467k. every year. As I say, there should be an absolute exception that the number exceeds 32,800. Health - care cost above this amount is paid for by health care. The Declaration of the Government states that the aim is to reduce the payment of individual health care providers. This policy is reflected in the online financial program of 20181⁄2022, now before the Council. I've told you before that it's important that we have the experience now that's actually getting into the program yesterday and today because there's one of the biggest system changes in the health care care center of patients in Iceland for a very long time. It is very important that we examine the experience of this system, see if it will somehow alter the patient's behaviour toward health care, whether participation in the physical training system will have an impact and will determine this before we make priorities about how we use extra funds to reduce the overall health - care programme, whether we are doing so in particular to meet certain groups. A well - versed committee and General Assembly was content to focus specifically on family members, microgrowers, and older ones in this context, but the question is, Will they be used to transport more groups like dentists, psychological services, travel expenses, etc. rather into the cost system or whether to take any steps I support, to coordinate the pay factor system in the general health care and medical costs. I think it is proper that we consider this big system change before we make policy priorities, but priority must be to reduce the overall payback rate, especially for those who are vulnerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u40	Madam President. I'm here to celebrate and thank her for this discussion. I think it's appropriate that we review these cases now starting May when the new payment system is finally being implemented. So, first and foremost, I'm glad because I believe that its policy is correct, both in the payment process and in the direction of the reference duty that is within the system. Even if there are obstacles and problems that may arise at first, that is to overcome but not to give up. It is very important to stand on the roof at 50 o'clock. K. which was here met by a meeting last year and was, in effect, a prerequisite for the payment of the case in the way that we did and in the circumstances that existed then during the Council, instead of the 92 you. K. each year the bill expected. This is important because an agreement is agreed on, but mainly because it is important because of the goals you intend to achieve in the system. The higher the roof, the greater the extent to which it would be, in effect, to let others less use the service, be at the expense of defending the long - suffering one, and that was not the intention. Therefore, sufficient new resources must be assured into the system to enable this to work. Second, I believe that the important thing is, while there's certainly a point of view testing how this is going about, that man has his future policy done. It is my opinion that it is to accept other factors, psychological expenses, dental expenses, the travel expenses of people of the country who have to seek special service, and the desirable future goals would be to combine roofs with drug costs and medical expenses. Then I think we can begin to be reasonably content with this, if we had been able to take all of this together and so as to ensure that the cost was not too high, for it is much more reasonable to distribute costs to all the people of the country, and to use the general government income system rather than to stir the expense of the community that at any time needs the services of the health system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u41	Madam President. The final meetings of the JUB have taken visitors and given them the opportunity to present their comments on a financial program. What is repeated to those meetings is the concern of the visitors over increasing projects that do not bring up enough money to enforce. Projects such as the new payment system are designed for the future, but because of short - lived vision, disorganization, and lack of policy development, the projects are funded and therefore will not be able to produce the desired results. On the contrary, this public health care weakens and sends the account into the future. The new payment system, if it is properly financed, will no doubt help many who suffer from severe and chronic disease, but at the same time it will raise a considerable amount of costs for those who need less service. But is that enough? What about the cost of medicine, psychological expenses, and dental expenses that are not being processed? According to a report of OECD, the proportion of the state at drug cost at the lowest level in the Member States is OECD. Is this the health service the Icelanders have repeatedly called after? Madam President. This is not good enough. Pirata's course shows, by permission of the President: ▪ We all have the right to the best possible health. Piranha, of course, protects this human rights and aims to make health service and necessary purchases free and available to all, regardless of their location. We want to make sure that our healthcare provider and equipment are fully improved and that our health care providers are stopped. Piranians want to validate the right of all to the best possible health with a new constitution. Dental and mental health disorders are an integral part of the health of individuals who are not to be separated from public health care. Piranha aims for the services of psychologists and dentists to become part of the social security system, such as other health care services. We have every opportunity to run an outstanding health service here for the entire population. If only we are willing to change a little, we can finance the restoration of the health system by means of a fair resource, a high value in the form of innovation, and a system change involving a more righteous tax burden in society. [[The president calls.]] We can do this, but we have to choose to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u42	Madam President. Thank you for this very important discussion. For discussion, one of the things I think are one of the giant steps being taken towards better and in this case truly more reasonable health care systems. A conversation about health systems is understandably complex, ending wide, and important. Here is a discussion of the fragrance of the system, which focuses primarily on the patients themselves and on a large, reasonable system of justice. Well, more reasonable, I say, because with the new patient's system of payment, it's thought that those who need most of the help are in relative need. The objective is to protect patients from high health - care costs and includes maximal improvement in the share of individuals at expense. A priority order for this is clear, since contributions to this new system are expected to be in 1 billion years. and the contributions will be 1.5 billion a year when its effects have fully been achieved. The financial plan estimates that patients will be further reduced over the next five years and an additional 3.5 billion will be expected to do so. I believe this is a huge step toward a fair distribution and a reduction in the burden of all diseases. But when it is a huge step, it also calls for a huge system change, and it will no doubt come up with some bumps in the system that will need to be examined further. I have full faith that any partner will respond to such comments with the reasonable conclusion of the system itself in the foreground most in behalf of the weak.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u43	Madam President. I welcome a new payment system as a little step towards justice, but in a rich country such as Iceland, the debate should not be about whether we want to increase national equations and guarantee any independent access to health services but how we intend to do so. Well, it's not a thing that's worth it at all. At times, people claim to agree on this. The Lawgiver may even weaken that view, for according to 2 mg, according to a law code. 1st par. patient rights, No. 74/1997, it is forbidden to differentiate between patients on the basis of the economic situation. In recent years, however, health - care costs have greatly increased and have become a major problem. It is, therefore, that Iceland is increasingly postponing for medical attention at expense. The situation is especially bad among the low income. I hope the politicians have accepted the nation's plea for the structure of public services and indications of gaps between us that are good and those who have to ask each one of their fingers when they decide whether to pay bills or to go to health care. And that the political parties meant something when they praised the marvelous injection of the health system before election and the goal is to have health care for everyone. In that belief, in February the Conspiracy proposed a proposal to hide a health minister in the regulations that the maximum bail in medical care should be 35 of you. K. each year and to reduce the share of the elderly and the disability at the health of dentists. The aim is to eliminate drugs, psychological costs, travel costs, under the same payment system and that health care will be free of charge in the future. That's what we're supposed to do. But for that, the government needs to wake up and declare itself ready to make money from those who are very able to do so. I hope the health minister supports our synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u44	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the positive developments we see with a new patient's credit system. With huge financial expenses and health care that we see in the financial program, we make it an ambitious habit to show up whenever possible, without threatening stability, a growing need, and a lack of space in the system. Already, I have received positive reports of the work of the new system of payment and are only a few days ago. People are already benefiting from that change. I have heard of people who previously held back from seeking, for example. Helped by physical therapists or other experts who simply feel that a heavy weight is lifted. They now look for help. What a positive attitude that is! We must all be happy about that. I'd like to answer a question for a moment. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir gave up in her background talk about how and how to do so. A minister sees to face those living in the country, and he needs to find help in his town. Is there any plan on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u45	V.E.G. President. I want to start by catching the ball right there. paritaprevir Elínardóttir Sólveig Elinardóttir left him, i.e. to get an answer from the highest. Minister on your travel expenses. As the situation is now, there's a lot of discrimination, so if we could get that problem fixed on the system, it would be very good for many. I'd like to agree with what more people have said today that I was disappointed to learn that the payment wasn't really to a maximum of 50 of yours. K. As I understood the services committee last spring, when I was on that committee, it no longer belongs to me. This new system of payment is, of course, a step in the right direction. I don't want to blame anyone on the fact that we haven't gone any further, that the system is not better than it is, because we've been trying to improve our health system for years, and the payment is part of it. There have been many governments here. The groups that have existed for more than five years have all been in government for decades. It was good to hear a talk at the top. Minister, and I believe it, and don't doubt his word, that he has a rich will to do better. I have come up here with things that I know he takes into consideration and tries his very best. Finally, though, I would like to ask about my mental - health program. Is the part about subsidence of the Psychological Service being taken into the credit system? Does it refer to the mental - health program? [[The president calls.]] Is it part of it? If possible, it would be good to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u46	Madam President. According to our assessment of the left green, the health system should be run through a common fund, since it guarantees access to the system regardless of the economy. I agree that the policy that has been set to maximise patient payment is correct, and it is important, but it also tells of the source of the health system where individuals could pay enormous sums of money for the necessary services. I believe that immediately we need to consider preparing for the development of the system. It has to do with the conversation about medicines we had here earlier today and with whether people are prescribed drugs or other health care professionals. It's also linked because we are a whole body, we're not just a disease in a small area, so it's so important to keep the whole body under when it comes to health care. This discussion is equally related to the discussion of personal health care. In this context, I would especially like to link it to the recommendation of the Supreme Court. Last night the prime minister does not see why he might make comments that a health - care company pays off money. Of course, it affects what the state puts in, what the person needs to pay himself, and if any third party is to make money on everything. I'd love to hear the call from the highest level. This is precisely what counts when we are discussing how our health - care system should exist as well as that everyone should be able to have access to good health care, regardless of our economic situation. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u47	President. I'm just going to pick up the thread that was left behind by the senator who was before me in a talk chair. I appreciate this discussion, but I think it's very important that it is very important to know whether the government pays with this payment system for those who need or are going to use services in the private sector, such as The clinical status and whether, after these donations have been taken into account in the private enterprise, it is legal to pay interest from these enterprises as shown at the highest level. Prime Minister feels normal. It is also very important to keep in mind a very unfair system in which it was a lucky and frustrating way how much money you had to pay if you got ill. Some cancer patients even lost their homes. Instead of finding ways to pay these things together through the tax system, it is decided to weigh the cost to other patients, and an enormous number are now getting higher bills over changes in this system. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is very clear and simple to know exactly what is inside this package. I know that the expense for people who have been with regular doctors in the past has increased a lot, and these people have moved in their systems. It's like we're always changing systems, which means it gets better for some people, but it's gonna be pretty bad for a lot of people, for example. invalids and older citizens. I'm very sorry about that, and I'm asking the highest. A minister will see if there is a valid basis for review and correction if there is evidence of a lack of self - control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u48	V.E.G. President. If we consider the whole discussion here, I think most people will be interested in the system changes that have taken place in the patient's payment, the main thoughts there, that it is appropriate to lighten the burden of those who have had the most medical cost, to bring down the cost and set the peak in that department. I think that's a very positive step. I think that everyone knows or has heard of examples that have really been unfair, unfair, and tragic, of people who have suffered greatly from their high health costs. The main thought of the system change that is being carried out here is, of course, to prevent such an event from occurring. The system in which it is reversed in various ways, and surely its features will be tested. There will probably have to be one way or another a review of the export, both the rules that apply to this and the technical aspects of things that humans, of course, are experimenting with so that we have to prepare for both in the council and at the level of the government to correct certain problems that will arise. In the same way, we must also consider how patients may be more able to cope with patients with possible changes in the peak values mentioned here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u49	Madam President. Today, ASI published an example of the growth in expenses of the new payment system. In many cases, the cost is tremendous. There is reason to be concerned about the increased cost of reaching out for health care despite a new system. Large increases are likely to increase the number of non-healthcare providers, with adverse outcomes occurring in the women and in the lowest income groups. ASI notes that the cost of mental - health care is a source of special concern. A general body is encouraged to respond to this serious situation and to ensure increased funds into the new system as well as equal access to health services regardless of the economy, as health insurance laws require. The new payment system is aimed at ensuring patients against excessive medical care, research and training by means of a pay factor. That's about 70,000 bucks. for general patients and 45,500 for transplant recipients and children. For those patients who need heavy service regularly, the cost will decline, and this is good, but for most others the cost will increase. In addition to this cost, there is the cost of drugs, dental services, psychological services, and auxiliary equipment. The increase is striking and is higher in pensioners than in general patients. In Iceland, the number of new people in the United States has been delayed by the expense of a medical visit. They are less effective in health care than they are in earning a lot of money, and more women are refusing their service than men because of expenses. This is not a good system. Free health care is what the welfare community of Iceland is planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u50	Madam President. In my second speech, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and say that I am especially happy that children, orphans, and elderly persons will be paying less than common users as new system has been implemented. I believe that there is a full understanding of this and that support in the community is being given that we set our priorities in behalf of these groups. However, since this has been established in the talks of other senators, I have to say that I do not view it as some particular ambition in general that all services will be free of charge for everyone. I believe that we who can afford to share in paying for health care are to make it up to some extent. It's not really that there's something called "free health care. " It's in my opinion that there's a mirage. My grandfather taught me that anyway. Although my grandfather and I have not always agreed on everything in our life, I agree with him that nothing costs anything. If we want people who have enough hands to pay, for example. Not for special visits to the health care clinics I don't agree with, we look ahead to significant tax increases. Let's just say it the way it is. I'm not sure that's necessarily what more part of Iceland wants. I'd like to ask a minister if he thinks, since the dentist had come in here, that dentists should be part of the common payment suit, or that money might be better protected if it was directly involved in prevention and instruction on the importance and value of good dental hygiene.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u51	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by thanking you for the fine discussion that has been here. It's interesting to be able to discuss this case here at the beginning of a new payment system. I agree with what has been said during the discussion, it is important that the steps are in order to protect patients from extreme costs due to illness. It is true that a new system is a major system change. No doubt there will be some niggers who need to respond. But I'm sure we can get through it. It takes time. It was important to start the system, although perhaps not all was quite ready. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of health again of the questions I asked in my earlier speech. I'd like to ask him if he will work for long-term health care professionals, whether or not he will be able to bring together the two transfer costs of patients, psychiatry, dentists, and relief tools, under a new payment system, and if he intends to combine the two subsidies. as a result of medicine and health care, for one system. I know it's very important to see how this system works and how it starts, but we must have priorities, which parts we're going to react to, what we're going to focus on and what money is going to go into a budget. What classes and subsequent tasks should be set prior to this important matter? If you don't, I'd like to thank you for a very good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u52	Madam President. I also want to thank you for a very special discussion. I'm glad I'm hearing a lot of harmony at the Council that we're supposed to be heading and taking a big step in recovering patients' access to the health system, including by paying to make sure that what happens or what troubles you, i.e. that it has a major impact on the financial condition of those who become ill. It is also very important in our discussion to remember that it was the transnational decision of the last General Assembly, and I hear no better than the rest of the Relations, the only group at the General Assembly that was not here during the last term, to agree with the basic Prince, to settle the participation, to increase access by reducing the overall pay rate of patients. It was the decision of a welfare committee in the past year that we have adopted and adopted as an example in the Regulation that we should use an additional $1 billion in this year, 1.5 billion in the next and cumulative financial programme period to 3.5 million in order to reduce public payment, that we focus on at least every distance to start using the funds to reduce the burden of children's families, micro- and elderly, which are the most likely groups to use health services, but also those groups that would have the worst impact on having a high credit rate. I want to reiterate what I said in my first speech: I want to aim and aim for the cost of long-suffering, psychological costs, dental costs, travel costs, and drug costs, but I think it's important when we take such a giant-based change to the advantage that we set our priorities there only after our experience. [[The president calls.]] But thanks again for very good discussions, and I trust that we will take it over and over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u53	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 103/2006, on land measurements and basic maps. This bill suggests changes in the role of Iceland's National Survey on the Design, the maintenance and sharing of digital cover and land data. The bill has already been submitted to the General Assembly, but it did not succeed at the end of the council. The elements of this bill are the major changes in technology in the development, use and transport of digital land information and a significant increase in the use of such data. National data are directly or indirectly linked to specific sites or regions, but such information is commonly provided on maps. National Information yields e.g. There are many data on land, soil, land use, transport and construction. Land information is therefore fundamental environmental and natural data and very important for the implementation of specific projects. In this context, there is information on administrative boundaries, which include the definitions. The boundaries of rural society and the districts of the county, as well as the boundaries of a peace-ported territory and national parks. National information is used in various aspects of government policy, such as construction, planning and environment. Such data are also a very important link during the follow-up of nature and in the implementation of public defences. Land information is then important to set up countries and territories, create property cards, to ensure land owners and other stakeholders of the country's tenets and legalisations and to publish to those who are expected to have Parliamented information on the borders and borders. The use of the public on land data has increased substantially over the past few years, including in connection with the use of smartphones and tablets, where digital maps and air pictures are combined with other software, such as driving guidance. As a result, more and more demand is being made for better and more accurate land information on the surface of the earth and for such data to be accessible without barrier, e.g. for travel services and outdoors. It is important to ensure an increased bioavailability of accurate national information on Iceland to make it more useful than at present. National information, e.g. Basic data for rescue teams, such as for missing persons. In this case, specific national information will also be useful when travelling in the country and will prevent accidents, such as when crossing snow - covered land by winter. So in the bill of this, it is suggested, firstly, that the legal role of Iceland's National Affairs to establish national information bases, to maintain and mediated data will no longer be limited to the data set at 1:50. (b) What is required of Jehovah's Witnesses today? (b) What questions remain to be answered? It has to be estimated that the present limitation of the law is not in harmony with today's demands, but it has led to the fact that some government institutions and rural societies have had to rent access to more precise data to private partners. With the bill it is not intended that Iceland's national readings will initiate production of the core data needed to build up a land information base more accurately than 1:50. 000, it's not suggested. These core data are already available in privates, and it is clear that the production of National Research on such data would require a significant increase in resources to the Agency. So the bill assumes only that Iceland's soil readings will ensure that land information base will be established, maintained and shared in the exactness needed and technology allows. It is estimated that land data purchased by Iceland's National Focal Points and other institutions will be purchased to establish, maintain, and communicate national information bases, to be bought or rented by private sources, such as on the basis of tenders. I think it's very reasonable that the private market will be responsible for the production of land information that state and rural areas need to carry out legal projects. At the same time, I believe it is important that the land information purchased by public funds be made available and transmitted to other governments, rural communities, public and businesses. It's simply a good tax donation. Thus, the bill assumes that detailed geographic data will continue to be purchased by privates, but it will be purchased to a greater extent by the terms that distribution to third parties will be permitted. However, the bill does not suggest that one person buys land information for state and rural society, so there is no provision for it in the bill. The bill does not specify how Iceland's soil analysis is intended to perform this changing role, nor is it a reason to establish a specific way for the Agency to carry out the role. Iceland's land records use telemetry data obtained by airplanes or satellites mainly during reviews of maps and land databases and seek the Agency to provide such data in cooperation with other public bodies in order to achieve the most practicality. The Agency is also working on the development and presentation of new instruments for the processing and use of data. The role of Iceland's National Research Programme has already changed from producing data to projects related to quality control of data that other people provide, the safety of the public, and the base of national information. Second, the bill suggests that the role of Iceland's Land Cover and Database is laid down in the law to establish, maintain, and provide national information with other governments. This is not a new word, but it involves the transformation in harmony with law No. 44/2011, on the basis of digital information, as this role of the Agency is presented. Their aim is to build and maintain a foundation for government-based digital land information and ensure access of the government and the public to national information on Iceland. Iceland's geological data run them by law, but they include a wide range of land information, such as transportation, peace-lit areas, geology, administrative boundaries, and address. As a result of this change, it is a step toward establishing national information bases in this country that contain information under the control of the government at any given time. Finally, in the bill, it is suggested that Iceland's National Research Act be released. This proposal is in line with the fact that Iceland's National Monitoring has been free since January 2013, which has led to a huge increase in the use of these data, including ... innews. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. This is a previously recommended case that was used for the treatment of the knee. Environmental and transport committees during the last term, but they did not progress. I was having a word with that man of the highest order. The minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir on this matter, so I'm not going to take any special time with the subject. I think it's very good and it's time. I think we're supposed to go ahead and give ourselves a chance to finish it. I don't think anything will stop you from doing that. We started this tour by making the data available in January 2013, so we are now in the course that began and is about the fact that data designed for public interest in the public should be open to the same common people, as it has been found to have led to an enormous development and innovation in this area. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on her assessment of how likely the matter is to be over. That's right. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, the current minister of the government, set up against the case at 1st. and believed that this could be inconceivable because it was sewn to privates, who I disagree with that they do. Now, as it is, the case is presented here, and then it has probably gone through a government with the highest power. Minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson is sitting right there. I'd like to be curious about whether there were any nuances in the progress of the case from the government and then later from the members of Congress. If it isn't, I think it's one of the cases we're supposed to finish off in style.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u55	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. We agree on the importance of the matter. She asks me about my evaluation of the matter. I think it's very likely. It's over the government. As they crossed over, both of me and of what. A senator has been asked the matter before, and there is some politician in it, apparently, that some people put a question mark on it. I've felt a little bit when I've come down to the view that even misunderstandings are involved. There is no change in soil readings buying data from private sources, and there is no longer a limit to making maps. But it's very important, and I agree with what. A senator, that the data bought for public money is useful to the public and that this institution is equal to other institutions, because it is the only thing in this institution that can't be published or handled with data in enough solution that technology is currently demanding. We are simply moving it to the same level of other institutions, such as the Road Building, so that different institutions do not have to buy the same information two or three times. That'd be a lousy administration to the public money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u56	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. Then I'd like to ask the Minister about land information in general at the Office of the Environment Ministry. It's very important to discuss it when talking about an institution that specifically deals with land readings and land information about how this is happening and how it resides in the law. In addition, almost all institutions under the Environment Ministry have some kind of land information. Iceland's Weather Room is an institution of the highest. Minister mentioned. In addition, there is the EEA, the National Institute of Nature, the Forest, the Landing, or any other person working with his nose more or less, some kind of land information. I think that many of those who work at those institutions have the vision of a way of getting this together and that these data can be accessed in any kind of system that can be read or called after events. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if such work is now being carried out and where it is now. I think we both agree on the fact that we want a system that is useful and useful to the public, but especially so that public funds are well arranged and we are not doing the same things in many places. V.E.G. Ministers have the expectation that the matter will be resolved now because it has come through the government and in spite of any doubts in any place, it has come to the Senate through the members of the states, and then I want to assure the highest degree. Ministers on the fact that a council of the left green stands with a good environmental minister in all good works and will do so in this matter as well as in others. We've been intervening in the environment and we'll be left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u57	That's exactly right. A senator well knows the identity of a former environmental minister that there are land information and such data in various institutions under the Environment Ministry. Of course, you would want these data to work as best together and that different institutions and persons in town or businesses that use the data do not have to be double and triple things that have already been done elsewhere. It's clear that there's something better to go into the stitches of how we can all put these systems together, if we can say so, talk better. But I think it's going well, and the managers of many institutions show interest in it. So, with the fact that it's over now. I realize that I speak a little late. It's in May. Of course, I want the case to be done well in that case. The Environment and Transport Committee, but I am absolutely aware that not all of my matters I recommend today will pass through at the end of the council, if the programme remains. I know, however, that the council can work very fast and well when it falls apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u58	A respectable president. Basically, I agree that these data are largely available. However, it worries me that in chapter 5, on consultations, the president's permission says: ◯... National assessment of Iceland will initiate production of land data to establish such a land information base. This provision called for a significant increase in financial resources to the Agency. Instead, Iceland's soil readings are expected to use land data generated by the various Agency projects in building a database of land data as well as land information produced by other state organisations and rural areas. In most cases, this land information is already done by private servants. The road structure gathers this information for its work and other institutions, but it is assumed that private people will continue. Later, says: In the end, it is appropriate to establish that if the bill becomes legal, it is assumed that land data provided by Iceland's National Research and other institutions will be purchased to establish, maintain, and provide national information bases for the purchase or hire of private sources, such as on the basis of tenders. I'm worried about that, when we're sharing the information we're buying from private sources, and the private person knows in advance that we're going to share the information, he's going to get a yoke on us in the corner. Won't there be a price on this information? Don't you think we need to arrange that Iceland's National Research Programmes manage land readings and change the name of the Agency in Iceland's founding information or something? It looks good if it doesn't. It's just that private people are giving this right up; that's what the state means -- I don't know - billion doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u59	I'm going to let me answer such good thoughts for a moment. Senator. True, it is the view that the state takes care of all these things, makes maps, whatever. That's just not what's been done so far. Then, on the basis of this, publishers have cooperated with private people who have taken pictures and then sold them. So we're wondering if the price can't go straight up if it's nailed like this. First, it is very important that all conditions be explained by the State. We must never be confused about what we are going to do. It's just going on in the same direction, really getting information from all over the world. The road model collects data, but it also buys data. But the road type can be divided, e.g. data in a better resolution than soil readings can offer. That's what we're correcting here. Hv. A senator is concerned about cost. I'm just worried about the same cost if the government and its institutions buy the same records many times. It's natural, it's a real soon. That's why we'd like to keep it the same with nationals and other members of the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u60	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister has brought most of my concerns into the hands of most of them. It is true that if we are to buy the same information over and over again, as the arrangement has been, we would likely have a higher sum than if we bought it once. But if a business owner sees that, if he has so far been able to sell it five times, he's just gonna sell it once, and then he's got to sell it at ten times his price. There are these things I was worried about. But maybe these concerns aren't well thought over, and then I'll retract my questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u61	Yeah, just really short. These are useful discussions. I can see why. A senator is leaving, but we're better off living on the fact that there's an excellent competition on this market, so it's not like the government or institutions are just buying from one particular party, so I'm not worried about it. More than that, I'm concerned that soil readings underestimated specific data, such as When something happens, when there is a volcanic eruption or something, and there's no evidence, that the person who owns it can sell it, but it goes up a lot because there's so much on it. It is now better for soil readings and organizations to be able to pass it on in advance or between them by law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u62	A respectable president. Then I just think most of my concerns have been answered, and then we just hope that things will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u63	A respectable president. I'm sorry to say that I had a rather remarkable day in January 2013. It was the day Iceland's Land Malls made these data available, and it's very dangerous to have data available and available and free. I'm particularly glad that this is a cut-off of the regulations allowing Iceland to sell materials in the Agency's possession. I think it's very good to also not be determined on the scale anymore, 1:50. 000 that are normally used. When I consider the subject of travel, I first think about the development of technology. Maps play a much greater role in each person's life today than they did four, five years ago. Now we're barely going off the ass without getting some kind of guidance and help on the basis of maps. This matter is only to a small extent political in nature. However, the fact that this is being presented for the second time is a rather tragic testimony to the ways of the Generals. Like what? Councilmen and the highest. Ministers sitting here, as I know, are eager to see that the Council of Congress will not be cut off at each end. I feel somehow like we're being given here, we're going to have two wings in this case of ours all. It is a valuable bill that will bring about progress and prosperity for the entire nation. I can't wait to receive the bill and to discuss it when it comes to treating an environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u64	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Einar Brynjólfsson said that this matter is, to a small extent, political in nature. I'm gonna let myself disagree with him. This case is strongly political, which is clearly seen in its history. The Senator mentioned, for example. that this country's budget has been suspended in December 2012, which was implemented in January 2013. Then the government was left green and convergence. It was because of the political decision of that time, the Supreme Court. Environment Minister at time of incision to eliminate this ten million labour requirement, which data were made free and accessible to all. You see, it still exonerates the privatizing mud in these laws, which were placed in the winter of 2006/007, when it was tailored to land, e.g. not to collect land information into more resolution than 1:50. 000. It was justified in a paper with a bill back then, by permission of a president: In recent years, land information has improved greatly, and there have been some areas of land data and mapmaking, which have led to an increase in the use of private companies into this market. At the same time, the State's authority has been reducing the number of productions and services. It was because of the religious belief of the then - existing government, a right - hand government, and the belief in personal development that the government should not engage in profitable activity, although it would touch the foundation of society and its cartographer's establishment, all at once was one government agency that was specifically taken out of law on its role that it could produce maps. Iceland's soil records had a 2007 defined role of publishing maps, it was taken out. At the same time, it was restricted to the fact that land surveys could not have more resolution than 1:50. 000, which is reasonable when all the data that have been collected since then are in greater solution, so that they really need to reduce the value of the data in a house to be able to fulfill this law, which we are better about to replace. When these changes were discussed 11 years ago, it was pointed out that regulations 4. The bill, which then became 4. The law on the role of Geographic, defined the Agency's workspace too narrow. At a vote, they said what to do. The local senator, with the permission of a president, left green, Ögmundur Jónasson: In other words, the Agency is forced by a legal authority to reduce competitiveness, and that is what we feel is dangerous. The political has been in this case for a long time. On that same occasion, Kolbrún, the daughter of Halldórsdóttir, then the highest. Minister of the left green, of the matter being worked at all too fast, with a butterfly, so she feared that the upcoming would be a mistake. She pointed, for example. On, representing a member of the Parliament's Environment Committee, by permission of the president: It is clear from the fact that in order to ensure that the data provided by Iceland's National Research Centres are public property and all available free of charge, I believe that in itself it is a great improvement. As a result, this was one of the indications that had come to the Committee. However, because of the speed of handling the case just before the end of the spring of 2006, this was not taken into account. This was finally taken into account in January 2013 when a decision on budget was used to allow the public to enter the dataset and database of the Land survey. It is finally, ten years later, as the year 2006 nears its end. It is a pleasure to see how much data have been used since its opening. It has vast soil for innovation and development. Since the land data of the National Research Centre, approximately 1,900 people have registered for data cut-down, according to the Agency's report on the testing of the use and impact. It's only drilled into how users have made use of it. In fact, over half do not use them for any assignment. Rather, they are only doing research. The pleasant thing about opening is that you can be curious, you can see if you can take advantage of something, and then you can decide that you may not want to do it. A survey of the United States says, with permission of the president: ▪ If the numbers are accurate, 159 users answer yes to the question, "Do you want to download the data from the National Research Centres'have given rise to the innovation of product or service? " There are 159 people who, using these accessible data, came up with an idea, whether it became real or not, received a spark that could become something. In fact, it is found that only 67 new products and services have been produced because of the currencies or access to the goods. Bioavailability to the data has therefore had the desired effect. That is why, of course, you rejoice to the height. A minister makes these observations intelligently and puts them in place of national testing to distribute these data without charge in order to enable these 67 new products or services that have already occurred within a few years in 660, or whatever, so that innovation will continue. I just want to move on to the next step that I think is going to have to take into this matter that has to do with the law No. 44/2011, on the basis of digital land data, which introduces the European Union IINSPIRE directive for the integrated use of land data. Here again, I would like to refer to a survey published by the National Survey, a survey that has been conducted every other year, in the last fall of 2015, among the institutions of both the State and the rural community on what land information they would have had. It is concluded in this study that at least 32 institutions in the country have occupied 326 data sets that might be involved in the European Commission's information system. The data set is consistent with the data covered by Land Cover. This is usually the kind of information that has been funded for public use in the EU and is therefore of particular interest to the public in free access. We've got work to do here, including The formats of the data need to be synchronized and cooperate with these institutions in order to connect their databases to land-tests. In fact, the report shows that in most cases it is relatively easy to draw up the data in some way that may be useful in land information. The oedema of more of the data is already being carried out by a GIS form. Also, many other forms are used, but most of them are not easily addressed to form, which the geologic readings can quickly fit into their systems. Once we've taken it as a step to agree to the top bill. Minister I think it's a good idea to move forward and get more information into this base. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's speech. In fact, it seems to me that here might be a bit of a misunderstanding. When I spoke of this not being a political issue in nature, I meant these little changes that are being made right now. I agree with him that at the time, there was a significant change in the role and function of Iceland's U.S.G.P., which was very political. Hv. A senator himself listed a number of innovations and positive progress by means of this open access. So I ask, " Could it not be said that the anxieties and warning words of the former senators he quoted earlier were simply unnecessary? ' They haven't been fulfilled to any degree, have they?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u66	Madam President. The warnings given to senators left green in June 2006 were fulfilled because the innovation reported in a land survey report occurred after the minister of the left greens had opened the data. Now, we are only taking the step of legally establishing that opening point. The closing of the data in the United States in 2006 was a political decision, opening that 2013 was also a political decision. What I think may be working with this issue is that people view information differently today than it did in 2006. This warning from Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir and son of Jónasson at the time, based on the simple left man - made prince, should be public service available to the public at the time of this date, are views that have been exposed, especially since technological development has made the sharing of such information less expensive and easier. Today, geological measurements do not add as much importance to injecting four terabons of data into the ether as it might have been in 2006, but technology has also become the focus of the fact that the newly created education in these data is now more than ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u67	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer to my counter. I have to admit it here and now that I misunderstood to some extent the senator's lawsuit earlier. That's why my question may not have been very intelligent. To this matter: Now it seems to me that everything is going to be in order for this matter to be accomplished. I can only imagine the government's share behind it. It sounds to me that the left is the follower and the Pirats are the same. Then I'd like to ask the senator if he didn't agree with me and other Pirates if this case were to be done on the day of spring or June, or when it will be over the next fall, and if he doesn't agree with me and other Pirates that it would be good now if the Senate wasn't cut off and continued to work on the existing issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u68	Madam President. I would have thought it best that we had stood here about a month ago to discuss this matter in 1st. I don't see that it's important whether or not a matter exists between council members. Rather, the challenge of Congress is that the governments of all times have unrealistic expectations for a number of cases that they can complete when preparing their Constitution and making an even more unrealistic date for their contributions, so on the last day, all paper boxes are filled with projects that have been prepared the night before to be measured. As a result, we are always taking 1st. the issue that is clear to everyone is not going to be fulfilled. I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u69	A respectable president. As I was sitting in our assembly room and preparing for my case, I suddenly needed to go to the Mosfellsville, as it happens sometimes, so I decided to explore the avenues that were available and went to the one called Google Maps, and struck them in that I was in the East, where I was headed to Mosfellsville. Then there were two possibilities; on the one hand, I was invited to drive there, and it would take 22 minutes, and so I could walk there, and according to Google Maps it takes me three hours and 17 minutes. There's a way to pursue the Southland Railway, and then after a new walkway on Geirsnef, in Grafarvog, and then past the Mosfellsville golf course, that's how I'll make it. Those two advantages were available to me. But I know there are other advantages available to me. I know I can cycle this, and I've done it, and I know I can take the bus this way too, I've done it. If I had done a similar search in Copenhagen or other many major European cities and the United States, I would also have had these two advantages available to me. I would also have been guided by how to ride this route or to use public repetitives. What's the reason why these two tabs in the Icelandic map version of Google Maps are gray and not available? I don't know exactly. I have no detailed information on it, but sometimes I suspect that the reason for this is, in many cases, a lack of enough basic information that is open and accessible. I've been in the position to use information that is a part of public property and there's always some priorities in a company that uses such information. It is often based on three factors. First, the information needs to be marketly useful, which is now usually why in all the systems I name are large cities in the United States usually closer to the first where users can use such services, where there is a good market for such a service at least. Second, some of the information is technically useful. And third, they need to be reused from a legal point of view. It'll probably never be that the market in Iceland will be the first market you go into, but we can do well to do the other things because, despite all of it, it has a positive effect on our quality of life to approach comparable information in Iceland as it is around Iceland. It also affects what tourism can do for tourists, so I'll mention it. The price here is often discussed as one factor in this matter, it is the most important factor that the decision and timing - that the information will be made free, but it is not the only thing that matters, and, in fact, it is equally important how these data are handled. This is due to the fact that the first law is a code of geology and, as it were, a code of authors who are still very conservative. Happily, however, and must be settled, a very good work has been done within their laws in order to make the data truly open and accessible. If I pull down here in a law code that's about what we can do with the laws we make to be changed, that's 6. par., second paragraph, that's where it says, by permission of the president: ▪ The right to use all the information on land measurements and maps mentioned in 1st. and are in the possession of Iceland's National Research Centres provided the source is conceived and the reliability of information is assured. This law is most likely built around the ideologies that give the right to the one every time, as at the same time, to one another. However, these cases have been passed, and the changes have been made in the way that Iceland's National Relations have published terms on their website based on the so - called ◯Open Government Licence, or open license, to a British example, where the legal environment is somewhat similar. It states that, in fact, Iceland's National Studies grants all permission to re-use information to specific conditions. One of these conditions is that the U.S. survey is presented as a source. I don't see that the legal separation that the reliability of information is guaranteed somewhere. As you look at these articles from a technical point of view, you can think of three questions. First of all, it is permitted, but it should really be true, i.e. the usefulness should be made of all data. Second, the requirement for understanding the origin is according to the standard penal code. But today's challenge is that it is not always as easy as it seems. For example, the entire database is based on data based on data. In that case, it is not very easy to be able to access all their source in a simple way. In this sector, the experiment is that it has become much more a problem in the other direction. The strains try to make sure that those who reuse information published e.g. does not mark the institution, since most people who use such information for profit are trying to show that they use a well - known source to raise the quality of their service, whether the customers pay for it or not. The principle that reliable information is guaranteed, I believe, is unnecessary. I don't think any of the things mentioned here are big things that will cause this to be dealt with in changing the law of this traffic, and I don't want to do anything to delay the progress. But I know that the authenticity theory has ever been used, not by urine measurements, but by other institutions that have held back from allowing people to continue their information, with the argument that we cannot take responsibility if users use the information incorrectly. It makes me feel like people have a pretty bad approach to opening data. I'm not worried about the survival of private people in the map sector or anyone else, that bill will become reality. The conclusion has been that in most places where data have been opened, the reverse has occurred, the growth has been restored in the sector. Humans have simply taken the data, worked together data from different backgrounds, re-packed and sold to them, often in excellent profits. For example, there is a lot of information available to the Bloomberg Newskeeper and the data board have information that could be accessed free through the state's auction, ◯ Federal Resource. Yet, there has been a ministry where something is added. I'm not worried about that factor and I'm supporting the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u70	A respectable president. Just so much fun listening to the go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go. A senator took us to Mousfellstown. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It is so important that the information available is for others, such as for Google Maps, that the network, now another role of Iceland's Landings that we haven't talked about very much about here, i.e. that Iceland's soil readings stay out and represent what is called a geological network where GPS points are put down. Despite the circumstances, many are discussed. A senator has not done so, whether the private members of the United States can only take in all the land readings they do. There are a number of things that we should be in administrative affairs and for safety reasons, e.g. having this network correctly and having it so that others can use it and have it in the fix that we can expand and add to a lot of ways that humans can exploit, even, and, fortunately, for business purposes, as Google Maps does. I just wanted to get in there. This is another factor and another role that Iceland's Landstas have that is very important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to be honest that I don't mind a private person doing things that would be done in the country today, regardless of whether the geologic readings will continue to do things. To me, there is no contradiction in supporting either one. In general, I don't approve of some sort of private secrets to the state, especially in this kind of thing. However, if it is so that government agencies, public citizens, gather information that can be used to others, I would probably feel that it should be the principle that this information is published. Who knows what to do with them? So I'm just gonna come back on Google Maps history, because it's the highest. A minister mentioned it, there are times when you do not see the things that are not to be seen. Surely we could go on some expedition and try to find out why the others, and this does not provide services in the capital area in the same way that it serves cities in other countries. Sometimes it is just this premeditated bioavailability. There are simply some programmers or markets here and where the steps are possible next. They often choose the step in which it is technically easier to implement solutions that are acceptable and where there seems to be no legal obstacle to using the available data.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing this bill forward and declaring that it has my support when it comes to coping with it, both in the council hall and at the head. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'm going to hear a lot of fun there, considering the discussion that has taken place today. It'll be fun sitting with my colleagues there, including Yeah. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, discussing various aspects of this case with Google Maps and more. I'm in line for data data from above and data from it, so I'll witness as a reminder. A senator who has a hell of a lot better knowledge than I do on such databases. I look forward to dealing with this situation there. The past has been handled well, and there has been no need to do it again, chief. Ministers know her well, and here goes the room. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did it okay. It is natural for us to be discussing matters under the spring of 2017, which highlights comments presented in February 2011, that the right thing to do is to do. That is by no means at the present time. A minister who has brought up this matter now, but the need has been clear and the suggestions, as stated in the report, to establish a general land information base, precise and detailed land information that the government needs for legal projects. The need has been clear for some time, and as to the proposal, the will of certain political parties is at least at the very least, and it reached the point where the matter was proposed to the last assembly. I'm happy with this bill and this report. There are many things in the Bible that can be said to be true. I am, for example. In agreement with this sentence, with the permission of the president: The introduction of the Internet has made a significant increase in data and information. I'm going to accept that word, and I'm not going to create a disagreement about it, even though it would certainly be fun to reason there. I wonder, will this bill be a law which I hope will happen at this spring council, whether the knots are well cared for in the next steps? So I'm not opposing this case at all, I'm rather trying to support it, and I'm making sure that it will be properly prepared, so that it will produce the desired results, as the report says, by allowing the president: This bill suggests that Iceland's soil records will have a land information base established, maintained and shared in the accuracy needed and technology allows. So only later: ▪ It is necessary that the government agency that measures land and basic maps can provide land information with the preciseness needed at any given time and mediated to other governments, stakeholders, and the public as needed. The need and accuracy and the need for this are considered here. Therefore, it is good to take a brief look at the reviews that presented the matter at the time. They are very many and a great deal more positive and respond well, but there are fine tips that we can apply to the work that lies ahead of us, both at the right time. Environment and transport committees, and here in the hall, but not least the highest. Minister on the case. Iceland's National Constitution gave a review of national interest. If there is something that is closely related to the nation's interests, it must be the interests of national records. In force, there are Agency service contracts and private members for the use of image cards. But who are the Agency's interests, i.e. People's records, when they come up with these matters? It says in the review, with the permission of a president: To have a picture map of the entire country regularly updated. The Agency believes that regular improvements in image cards are necessary to take place in urban areas every 1◯3 years, with less than 20 cm ability to follow up rural development, rural (3200 m.s.) every 5 years, with about 50 cm ability to follow changes in land use and development, in the wild less than 10 years, with an increasing rate of about 50 to 1,100 cm of cognition and, for example, in areas where land use is changed, e.g. Due to the construction or other major projects or natural changes such as volcanic eruptions, floods, or other disasters. This is what we have to make sure that we are maintained and accessible to a national file, whether through the National Analysis of Resources to buy or to rent the data, or that the data will be produced in some other way. We're talking about that every one to two, three years, the data needs to be updated, for example. when it comes to urban areas. So this is not something that we just take care of and then throw away, and then we get a treat, something we don't need to worry about. Whether or not they will be used for purchase or to rent, as the bill shows. These data need at least to be sure to exist and updated. I myself know only that I had to deal with the inaccessability of data in various fields and that I have been in recent years in Iceland. It also says, by permission of the President, about the interests of the Agency: To have other detailed geographic data available at a targeted level, which will be used by the Agency, including In stratosphere of land share and the implementation of real estate assessments, to form coastal lines, height models, greenhouses, lakes, transport, etc. I worked as a journalist for a long time, and I even wrote. A series of articles on how to own land and land in Iceland. We soon learned that it was difficult to say so well. Data databases with clear cognitions, maps, images, were not real. It was simply impossible to say with full certainty where all the land ended and where the next one began, despite even changing his hands and going for a long time. So everything that goes on to open these foundations is good, but it also needs to be sure that they are maintained, strengthened, and improved. That would be interesting, whether here or in the case of a minister, if it was the highest. The minister intends to take a stand on the matter, or we will consider it within the committee, to consider also what is stated in the account of the Vega. It agrees with the bill, stating that it is positive and that it looks for progress, but the following is wondered, by permission of the president: Despite the above, it seems likely that land data in Iceland will be at least at first not with the precision that they meet the requirements for designing workers. Therefore, it can be assumed that the road model will continue to be protected for land analysis, at least for at least In some cases, in cooperation with national measurement, as has been the case. The question is, When and when Iceland's Land Covers will have enough access to land information, to work on sharing, design, street, rejection, and all kinds of music, whether in rural or urban areas? This is a question that we need to keep in mind when we keep working on the bill, and we'll expect to be seen in the job, if the bill is a law. However, it should be noted that wherever the information is produced, it will be good enough and readily available and will open to all. Finally, I want to reiterate that everything that opens access and access to public data is for the good. In fact, all public data should be open unless any specific circumstances explain or inhibit it. It should, in fact, turn around the burden of proof, if I allow myself to say so sillyly, that the rule is that data are open unless something special justice is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u73	A respectable president. I measure here for a bill for a global law on land healing, but the current land healing laws are over 50 years of age and there are many archaic factors, especially with respect to government options to intervene in sustainable land use and prevent the deterioration of ecosystems. The results of recent decades of research in Icelandic ecosystems show that land has deteriorated dramatically from land mines, while major soil erosions and erosions have occurred. Research also shows that diverse economics, as well as eco-ological possibilities, involve land healing and recovery of damaged ecosystems. The current law does not address these factors and needs to be corrected. Since the current land - healing laws were accepted, there have been changes in other environmental legislation in the region. In particular, these include new laws on nature protection, planning laws, and the assessment of environmental impacts. At the same time, land use has changed substantially; the number of sheep in the country has decreased, while tourists have increased with land and soil use. Thus, new land - healing laws need to be in line with other environmental legislation and take into account the social changes that have taken place over the last 50 years. In a new agricultural law, efforts must be made to stop further deforestation and soil erosion and restore ecosystems that have been disturbed by past deforestation and adverse natural forces. The aims are complex, and it is clear that the interaction of these laws with both nature protection laws and bill for new forestry shapes is significant. Thus, all these laws will contribute to the protection of the environment, the sustainable use of resources, and the recovery of damaged ecosystems. There are detailed laws on how sustainable use of the land will be most assured. For the purpose of a regular assessment of national status and effectiveness of projects, the set-up of sustainable land use criteria and the implementation of a strategy for reform where land use is not sustainable. It is also set out a directive that would result in substantial compromises on vegetation and soil, which should be replaced by the recovery of similar ecosystems. The law has a special chapter on the role of the State in the management of the land due to land healing; one in the country owned by the State and the other in the private tenet that the State has in charge of agreement with its owner. The law aims to simplify their management, to better define State oversight goals, and to reduce this position of oversight in a private country. I will now explain the key changes proposed in the bill. The main objectives of protection of vegetation and soil, recovery of existing ecosystems, and increasing the resources stored in vegetation and soil. It also stipulates that the use of the land will always be sustainable. It contains a more detailed mar aiming process that has to do with the protection and sustainable use of the land than previously established. This should be considered in the context of the principle that first means to avoid contamination of vegetation and soil, but if this is not possible, it will not be added to the damage and the person causing it will be responsible for paying expenses for it, including some of the costs. ... witha reference to Article 11. Natural protection laws. The need for the general public to participate in land healing, which is the most targeted way for land healing to succeed. At the same time, aims are set up to build crops and soil resources instead of those lost in this country, i.e. with the recovery and development of ecosystems on land, with access to as many as possible. I'm gonna go over this bill for an article. I'll start at 5. the management of land transplants. The main changes proposed include the Agency's renovation of the State's land healing, but also the validation of the authority to further the development of land healing, e.g. with a research job. Such a warrant is not found in current law. About 6. The bill then is a land - healing program designed to address the future view and policy of the government in land healing. The government's aims should be made aware of the best use of the land's services and habitats in the country, how to preserve the quality of the land, and how to promote and restore ecosystems that have been reduced and suggest a change in land use, e.g. amenorrhea for a specific method of application where appropriate. Therefore, this law plays a key role in land - healing policies. A land - healing strategy will then be implemented on a more detailed scale across each part of the country. They should remain off land healing in collaboration with rural areas and other stakeholders. In this way, there is an opportunity to discuss national use in a wide range of contexts, e.g. the best way to use and protect agricultural countries and how to set traffic in areas where vegetation and soil are fragile. A agriculture strategy can thus include integrated agriculture policies and rural planning programmes. The land transplant will then be authorized to support the land - healing efforts of others in line with the objectives of the law. It is important that such a warrant be given, but under this arrangement, such projects as Farmers and Farmers'Farmer Service Fund, where farmers, other landowners, and others are supported for land - healing work. The minister is expected to confirm more fully with the Regulation on what support is involved. Sustainable farming, of course, is a fundamental principle of land healing. On the one hand, to ensure that the use of resources in the country does not lead to the deforestation and decomposition of ecosystems that have been disturbed at various times in the history of the country, the opportunities for renewal and return to normal values under existing conditions, such as weather conditions and soil. It is also aimed at determining whether ecosystems should be used in a very poor condition. In terms of the assessment of national effectiveness, land healing is expected to continue to play a follow-up role. This stipulates a systematic collection of information on the use and impact of this information on land conditions and the effectiveness of land healing in general, including carbon binding from the atmosphere and protection and maintenance of biological diversity. Thus, there are a number of information collections that are useful in evaluating sustainable agriculture and effectiveness and development and recovery of ecosystems. In this setting, the directives and guidelines for sustainable land use. The Regulation expects a Regulation on what to be considered sustainable land use. Guidance on how to implement land use is also provided in order to become sustainable. Such guidelines can therefore be used for different uses on land, such as farm bait, agriculture, travel rate, etc. This type of reference is known in Icelandic resource management, e.g. In the cod population, and in what condition the country may be, that a sheep's pasture meets the conditions of quality - controlled sheep making. These criteria will be based on the evaluation of sustainable land use. Involved by unsuspecting land use and agriculture programmes. If agriculture does not agree with sustainable land use criteria, then the Agency is expected to implement and guide the preparation of a so-called agricultural strategy. A agricultural plan can include time - consuming measures that aim to improve the state of the country by relieving or reducing soil sheets from the fields. This is an alternative that is not intended to be a major burden but that triggers a process for improvement. However, if the owner or righter of his country does not have to do so, the Agency should ask for a legal number in accordance with the laws on the delinquency, mountain cover, application, or traffic limitation, as defined by the laws on nature protection. Thus, cases requiring reform and not adequately addressed according to land healing will be referred to a administrative procedure under other laws. There remains another use in the country, such as agriculture, which cannot be referred to any administrative procedure. It is therefore assumed that land healing will be able to use forced measures according to Article 24. to force and follow the development of a new agricultural plan. In accordance with the aim of the law, efforts are required to prevent and reduce the growth of vegetation and soil. The directive thus allows for the decision to implement such projects as this to be considered to be the aims of the law and to emphasize the importance of the construction and protection of vegetation and soil or ecosystems, and to provide adequate protection by protecting or restoring vegetation and soil at other locations. This may apply, for example, to a bug in wetlands, in valuable vegetation, or in landless land because of extensive construction. It is suggested that the regulation in accordance with the permission of the Member State should be in accordance with the requirements. As a result, valuable ecosystems can require recovery of a much larger area than is disturbed. This can, for example, happen. wetlands that are disturbed or that are highly damaged by significant vegetation in heavily damaged land. Land healing is still assigned to reduce or stop the destruction of vegetation and soil as well as to promote the recovery and development of ecosystems. Restored ecosystems is part of Iceland's international commitments under the Convention on Biodiversity. However, there is a need to sharpen your targets, where to attack the recovery of ecosystems, and why. This set covers all ecosystems, including wetlands, that have been disturbed. The directive also allows land healing to be allowed to agree with the national competent authorities on action, to include urgent cases in which accelerated soil erosions are threatened or damaged by land or by manpower. Such events can occur, for example, following volcanic eruptions and floods in the glacier. Protecting the land. Legislation of land violations is introduced into a land - healing law. Materially, only minor changes are involved. The obligation to land transplant should be taken into account as the executioner of defenses. Therefore, it is assumed that the Member State will be a candidate unless there is a very large number of projects involved. In charge of land healing areas. The bill sharpens the purpose and aim of land healing, whether owned by the government or by the private. It also stipulates their decision to be treated, including traffic and bait. In this way, land - healing areas will receive a formal place as areas of protection. Dispensing land healing sites. Land transplant has a considerable number of contractable land - healing areas in its management, and the bill is aimed at promoting the restoration of contractable land - healing facilities in the management of the country's rights. In this way, the provision of land healing is primarily required in other ways. The sale of an established land owned by the State and for the premarital rights. The 22nd paragraph. will take to the land under the custody of the State's land - healing services. This may be a country taken up by Sandplant of Iceland for healing on the basis of Article 7. Law on Agriculture, No. 17/1165, or older law No. 18/141 and 45/1923, respectively. This principle recently came into the earth, No. 81/2004, however, it is assumed that as soon as a new set of land transplants takes effect, the specific aspects of the earth's layers will fall apart at the same time. It must be reasonable that the sale of the state's restored land and the premium should be discussed in the law on land healing. It is assumed that the person who once owned the land will be replaced by a prenup, as expected in the law of the earth. In effect, the State is moved to sell, although it may be that the interests of the public are better paid in a way that is permanent, or at least permanent. Yet for a time, owned by the state. Thus, a law on purchase rights as presented in current geologic laws can inhibit the development and schedules of individual soils, as there is always the imminent legal rights of a particular person who may mess with other government plans. A new bill does not expect land to be used as expected in the laws of the earth. While circumstances may be in such a way that those countries that have been controlled for moderate agricultural purposes can be used, other uses are often more appropriate, and thus there is not necessarily evidence to put the use of agriculture into force. Then there are other requirements. It is a requirement for the curative rights of land healing, which includes collections of service fees to cover the costs of service in areas of the Agency's management, such as camping areas, parking lots, and toilets. It is also suggested that land healing be given authority to use means of forcedness to enforce a provision under the law. Above all, it is Article 12. On sustainable land use and agriculture programmes. It is also suggested that land healing be authorized to govern the government. Such fines can be considered in case of violation of Article 12. The law. The requirement for possession is comparable to that of the current agricultural law, No. 17/1165. The decision to take possession of land is a serious operation and should be very well planned. A continuation of land healing is necessary, i.e. that the Agency will be permitted to take possession of land if necessary in the light of the laws. This should be kept in mind, though, that the decision to obtain a possession is expected to be the last resort, i.e. that if the contracts of land healing are fully inadequate to be met by the land owner or the rightful authority and by areas of high public interest, it can be taken into consideration. In the past, there have been reports of changes in the land's purchase rights in the management of land healing, but there are also proposed changes to the rights of justices, mountain conditions, and other factors, as there is some doubt that land management can require a national decision that is not followed or that it is not being carried out. In addition it is suggested that thematic approach should be based on policy-making guidelines and policy-making criteria. 1 1. the treatment of agriculture. This is an important change and replaces an out - of - date rule that counts should be determined to be completed in the country, not overorganized, in relation to exercise tolerance. Instead, there is an in-depth control of the use areas in which the application time may be included, the number of baits, the peace of local areas, etc. It is also expected that land where the Italians have been determined will be monitored for soil and vegetation status. This is a great improvement of the provision, but it is not controlled by the current system of government. A respectable president. I've traced here the main subject of this bill. I suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I don't want so much to ask a minister about the matter - yet I think it's long time to update the provision for land healing that has been in the law since the earliest men remember - but I'd like to ask in the form why it is the process of maintaining the complex structure of religion on these matters by continuing to have a special law on agriculture and other laws about forestry. The report certainly refers to a committee appointed by the then minister in 2011, whose goal was to revise these laws separately. A few years have passed since then. More reports can be cited, such as. A White Book on a review of nature protection law, which focused on bringing land - healing laws and forestry into the protection laws. During the five years that have passed since the Commission's review of land transplant laws, I would not have concluded that it would have been considered within the Ministry if it was not to be fully available and to collaborate laws on land healing and forestry, as most of the reports seem to have benefited for both classes, since it is really one of the paintings, the challenge of maintaining and improving GDP.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u75	A respectable president. Thank you for the question that's all about this mission. We're discussing new and updated laws, temporary laws on land healing, and afterward we'll be able to make it to the forestry industry. That's a very good point and a question why these laws aren't just combined, if I get a question. A senator's right. It's worth thinking about putting it all under the protection Act of Nature. But already it is. A senator examines the next law code that we take into account that forestry laws and land - healing laws speak very well together. They're of the same hurt. It is the recovery of ecosystems, the protection of nature, the planning of both agriculture and forestry, if you can say so. Someday this law will be both part of one institution, I don't know it, but it's one step we're taking today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u76	Madam President. I ask myself, then, am I taking unnecessary steps to update these two layers instead of breathing in the abdomen and doing the diagnostic work to the end, coming back after one or two years with suggestions on how to unite them, how to look at the suggestions that Capacent did eight years ago, to unite national parks and a peaceful region under one institution and land culture and forestry with others, even if these two institutions belong together? You see, there are applications in this area, professional activity needs to be promoted. I'd like to ask the minister, because this will not happen on its own, the minister needs to take a political position on whether he sees himself as the start of any such work, no matter how these two cases are angry here at this council. The minister mentioned these two bills, one on the other, a bill for land healing that we are talking about today and a bill for the law on forestry and forestry that we will discuss next. The minister mentioned that these laws speak well together. That's an understatement. They are summed up in the text of a piece of paper. For example, in a chapter on consultation in a bill on land healing, it is said that a minister named made suggestions for new forestry laws. A report using agricultural laws thus says that forestry is being done; so similar are these texts that you can hardly cough, and you start to mix them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u77	A respectable president. I'm kind of confused about the senator's position. Whether he wants the law to be complete, to speak together, to be a code of law, or not? His first answer bowed to me, that he wanted to see a complete approach. The next answer was that it was in some way too similar to the world, that you couldn't tell the difference. I've become a bit confused about the issue. But I'm glad these two law columns talk well. This was mentioned and suggested that we breathe in our abdomen and return after a year or two with a total law code. My political position is that we can't wait one or two years to update the agricultural rights that are over 50 years old and the forest laws because the times have changed and these laws need to be brought into the modern world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u78	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the contributions of new laws on land healing as well as foresting, ending a long time when the law has grown old and needs an update. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. V.E.G. A minister earlier mentioned that these two law columns were of the same hurt. So I have two questions and I'm going to use an answer for each question. In terms of land healing support, a versed forest culture that will be discussed later, it is discussed in Article 8. where land healing is permitted to encourage and support projects, but in itself there are no funds available. Now I expect the highest. A minister agrees with me that land healing is one of the most important things we can do to stop the fall and heal the country, to form to avoid pollution on Lake Þingalva. I have information that the main source of pollution is just what comes from an uninhabited land. Then the question is: In forestry law, contracts are made for 40 years with land inhabitants and support up to 97% of the expense of forestry. Was there no point in installing any similar materials regarding land healing support? Or is it to remain, which has actually been very successful in the construction of the land, where some 640 farmers are doing volunteer work, rights, transplants, mountain segregations, and a wide variety of other communities, free partners working volunteerly? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Increasingly, land healing has been given too little to encourage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Has it not been an option to reflect on similar support? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u79	A respectable president. Thank you for a very good tip. To answer that it has not been examined the same way as that, it is not as pronounced in the two cooks. However, according to Regulation, the minister can determine how this support is carried out and, as it were, can view these factors and remain consistent. A senator mentions. I think it's very important that we do so, that we're not in single-mobilization operations and we have time plan there, think it over the length of time, and do as well as we do in the forestry when we've seen e.g. ................................................................................................................................ We're here to promote stakeholders, including Farmers and land transplants work together to meet that common goal. I'll take this indication. A senator for inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u80	A respectable president. The other part I wanted to use against the 22nd lesson. ... ofthemoment of a foreign land owned by the state and premarital rights. Again, I compare the forestry arrangement with a 40 - year contract, which is clear that if a person breaks it or cancels it, he needs to buy or sell the valuables it has become. Of course, during the land healing process, this is historic. There are plenty of earth, pieces of earth, to which, of course, I am not sure whether land transplants are on or have been implanted and are completely blurred how that earth's possession or its played, and therefore the value there has been. It seems to me that according to this article it is clear, just as the change in earth's law was done, that the previous owner or owner has the right to purchase. Then I ask: Is it clear how the possession of all the corruptions that the land has had for healing? Is it, in some cases, unclear whether the earth, or the land mine, was canceled for land healing because of the lack of contracts, such as in the case of the Forest, clarifies the 40 - year agreement on the rights of each party, but is that much less vague? Is this article really saying that the whole country where the land has been working is the property of land healing here, that it needs to go into a trade, and the premarital rights are theirs? [[The president calls.]] What does it mean to be treated for its use? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I heard a minister mention earlier that there was no requirement for agricultural use of that country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u81	A respectable president. It's easy to answer. We do not view the matter as a matter, with this article, land transplants, which were formerly the sand transplants, all the land they have had in their possession, and no rights to buy, if I understood the reason. A senator is correct. It's not like that. But it is true that there has been a dispute over these matters from the past, where the sand transplant took over, and then the owners have wanted it back. There are not many matters, but I think they have received, and they shall continue for judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u82	Madam President. I'm gonna use this time to swaddle one thing and another to link this bill. It is over 100 years of history, and of course, I hope that new laws, the ones I calculate, will encourage even greater action than we have seen over a century. In the bill that I think is excellent in many ways, there are some lights and good points and very useful goals. As a witness, there are various tasks, including some. each year, land transplants cost tens of millions of dollars. The bill holds stress for the agricultural process according to Article 6. and regional programmes according to Article 7. and both are relevant for the implementation of the land healing programmes. Like Hiklu Forests, major projects have shown tremendous success. Today, a similar assignment lies ahead of them near the Red Sea, where 20 million a year will be set aside for 20 years to do so in all other lands than it is today. Furthermore, this bill is based on basic research. I mention, for example. Basic research on wetlands, which is extremely important, requires at least tens of millions of at least. It is also established on a global level that is costly but extremely necessary to monitor the effectiveness of land healing as well as to what land would be without land healing. Finally, there is a new definition of the recovery of ecosystems that did not exist so long ago. They did not view ecosystems as intergalactic and a number of ecosystems that intervening into one another, so that understanding was not as perfect as it is now, when the mind of ecosystems has entered all land healing. It is important to remind them that while humans are talking about recovery of ecosystems, they are not necessarily looking to the same country as in this area. It's a lot more complicated than that. This is where some more people live in the first place. It is most exciting to say that the recovery of ecosystems has now been successful. steady-state or constant state, which means that the recovery is almost the same thing that is lost. Thus, our balance in life encourages even more action than we do so in order to get out of the wheels. I'd also like to mention what I call the other side of land healing, sustainable land use. It heads to various sectors, e.g. Agriculture, and there are two big issues that may overpower many other things. Sheep bait control isn't far enough. In some areas it is so far away that it is used in a foreign land, elsewhere it has come to use well - established lands, and in still other places, the situation is to use a land that is hardly or is not suitable at all. Another factor that is of utmost importance, which was expressed in the importance of a land - healing manager who met us on the environment and transport committee not long ago, is the term ádrara. Thus, the selenium that disappears from the capital area into the sea has the same high value as all the imported fertilizer. I mention it because sustainable land use is about something more than a control, it's also about using what happens. This is one of them. Another factor to sustainable land use is tourism. It has often been observed that the pressures of very many tourist locations and tourist attractions have become excessive and have already become land damages that are very difficult to repair unless they repair substantial amounts of money that are not available. Third, I'd like to mention about sustainable land use something that is rarely heard during the discussion, what I call education. In Iceland, education is primarily a matter of subject study. According to the old review, I don't dare tell her if she's 10 or 15 years old, there were over 3,000 subjects in Iceland. As man knows, the material consumption is not sustainable because material being taken cannot be replaced, but the rest is so different that it is almost rule that the conflict will be unsolved. If land - healing laws deal with this so that open studies will be as successful as possible, they can be greatly improved. Another thing I would like to mention is a close link between land healing and climate, mainly the carbon binding involved. In Iceland it is such that carbon binding is very beneficial, i.e. Icelandic soil is thus designed to achieve good looks, as is its high density. It is an easy and appreciative job to maintain the binding of carbon by making up for wastes in Iceland, where it means repairing a bad country. It has been observed that in Iceland the four - fold binding of carbon can be achieved by land healing, adding about 1 billion each year. A double price of about one second. 500 million. K. every year. We're competing to achieve certain climate targets under the Paris Convention, so land healing must matter, but you must always remember that there will be only a limited license to use binding as an operation to reach the Paris target. Emissions must also be reduced to a greater extent than those binding on carbon. In other words, it is impossible to meet the emissions of energy - consuming industrial activity in Iceland by merely planting forests. I'd like to mention defenses against land mines, which include the role of land healing. It involves countless things, e.g. running because of aquifer's heat, such as Thomson, land broken by glaciers, and land broken because of running by volcanic eruptions. All three of these things I mention are on the rise if anything is. Some of the geothermals that release glaciers are increasing. Waters of water in Iceland are increasing because of rising melts. So far, large fire stations we know are known to be powerful glaciers, e.g. A bear or Kate, even the Lakes of Grima, are all in a position of fire, so it is absolutely certain that these activities of land healing will increase, and if these are very major events, the road process will come into play. It is very important to deal with this in a practical way - both financially and properly spoken in these fine laws. For that whole bill, in many ways it is clear. Now we're gonna get reviews. They are being handled by an environment and transport committee. I'm sure there'll be some improvement on the bill, but I'd like to come into it a little bit. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned, changes in institutions and so related. I've spoken for a resource agency, whatever names we'd use for such an institution, and I have that including. During the visit, Sveinn' son of Runólfsson's memoirs, former geographer, with information on this operation, forestry, land transplants, national parks, alone involving the tourism of the country, would be collected under such an institution, and thereby a law that may soon be supplied, whether by land transplant or wood, would be united in one law code on such an institution. I think it's time for us to go over this, see exactly how this can be the best way, and divide the work between the EEA's other tasks, as they are now, and a new agency that has all the tools and tools to deal with these issues that we feel are so important and so concerned about the issues, the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u83	Madam President. Here we will discuss a long timely update on land - healing issues. The following is an equally timely update on deforestation rules. It's one of the oldest songs we have of full effect. They are long out - of - date in 2017, as they were long out - of - date in 2007. It will not be much more out - of - date in 2019 as it is in 2017. I ask myself, " Is there no basis for me to stop and build on the diagnostic work done in recent years that repeatedly shows that there is a tremendous economy, both professional and business, in uniting land healing and forestry projects? ' It is not a good idea for the litigation of hand race at the end of this May month about two of the total laws on these lawsuits and would be much better to put aside these bills and put their work in order that from these bills the total law on land healing and foresting or that they will be added to the protection laws of nature, as suggested in a white law on the protection of Iceland's nature, or what else would best be the value of these laws. An article with the bill has e.g. stated that there was a need for consultation with the employment and innovation department on the cooperation of a bill on land healing in which they touched the laws on penalties, mountain conditions, and other things, the laws on farms and land laws. It is a very complex legal environment surrounding the use, protection, and recovery of earth's quality. It would be impossible for the Ministry to shape new policy and bring new total laws, rather than bring the two individual issues based on policy issues since 2012. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned ideas about an institution that could take up not only the recovery of land quality but also the oversight of peaceful territories. Today, all too many people are under control. In fact, successful management of the Þingalval National Park and the Projects of the Þingalval Committee under the head of the Environment Ministry of Transmission led to national parks and non-violent regions within the same Ministry, although these areas are still saved in three separate institutions. In answer to the highest. The minister of the past had the misunderstanding with the minister that there was something unclear whether I wanted to make an overall review of the environment, forestry, land healing, and after the events of any other law groups that should then be convened into a new proper overall law, or whether I was talking about how we'd make the changes here proposed to be attacked. Just to be told and clear, I'm the complete accountant. I view these two basics as almost as much of their time failures as they replace the laws that have become too old to carry out their roles properly. When I read a paper projections with my prime projections, I'm so nervous. They're wrong, Madam President. We're here talking about two full-scale reviews, two new law columns on an important field in Iceland, and the Ministry is giving us a text that is obviously wrong. I read here from a paper with a bill for land healing, by permission of a president: ▪ As mentioned earlier, environmental minister set up a committee to suggest the input of a new law on forestry. A bill on land healing is suddenly referred to as a forestry bill here. I'm gonna let myself, Mrs. President, grab down to the next bill on the program, but not that we're discussing it, that's a bill for forestry and forestry. There, too, I read in chapter V on a discussion in that report, with the permission of a president: ▪ As mentioned earlier, environmental minister set up a committee to suggest a new law on land healing. What else has been the difference between these issues? Can we resolve these issues in our confidence that there are no more cross-infections between bill and wood and bill to legalize the land? On the Environment and Transport Committee to spend their valuable time here during the final centenarian council to collect these two basics for a complete review of key law columns to prevent us from passing the wrong information on someone in the Ministry? What else is that? These are two phrases I encountered just by chance, two sentences in 50 pages. How many more? I'm already worried. Minister comes to council with a case containing errors. I'm worried we should set laws on that basis. In particular, I'm concerned if it's going to happen in such a way that May 3rd is recommended when the Council's work programme assumes that this is a council hearing on May 31, there's plenty of cases to be done and a little time, so we're supposed to run through things that are so obviously neglected. Madam President. I would even think that these errors alone would be a reason why the Ministry would simply call these matters back to houses. It'll be quite time to initiate the overall review I've been told here that there's every reason to attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u84	A respectable president. I'm kind of upset about this riot. A senator's actions error at one point in each bill. I hope it's not too much work for what it is. The Environment and Transport Committee to adapt it. Another thing about why. It was about the Offices of the Ministry and the unity of institutions, not the content of the bill. I'm going to discuss it at a different level than here when we're discussing this bill. Hv. The environmental and transport committee does not have to look through their fingers with this verbal error, but she can certainly see if she can correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u85	Madam President. The minister is devastated by two errors. There were two errors I could feel looking quickly through the two bills. The minister seems convinced that there are only two, and only two, but he still wants to be sure that the committee will spend her time checking the bills to make sure that there are no more. I don't trust myself to say there are more or less. There are two of them, and the confusion of the primarys when they are submitted is no small entry error. To expect a U.S. Committee to perform the Ministry's work in correcting errors at this time of the Senate, I find myself overexcited.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u86	A respectable president. Is that too much to insist on? A senator who kicks the bills, as he says? I don't expect him to do my job for me and my ministry, no, I'm just glad he got a tip on the inconsistencies. As I said before, these two bills were worked that you can say everything, they talk well, and maybe this part is too well together. This is a mistake. If it's too much for what's happened. Senator to kick the bills to check out the errors, I assure him that we will personally do so in the Environmental and Resource Ministry, he will not have to cross the bills unless he wants to. Of course, we will want to happen. The Environment and Transport Committee will be able to give it back to the Commission if there is anything to do with it. But I think it's a little strange, I have to say, at what. A senator who has spoken for sustainable approach and protection of nature, and these bills speak into it, the bill we're talking into, putting in two internal errors when it is to be discussed on the committee. I think it's kind of sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u87	A respectable president. Is it too much for the senator to kick the bills that come from counsellors? Is that too much for the senator? No, in itself not. But in the spirit of careful legalization, I would have thought that it was not too demanding for the Ministry to bring in an unconcerned case. I find the minister somewhat optimistic to believe that these two errors in these two cases are the only ones in them. I haven't read the language and compared it and done what the Ministry should have done before it brought it to us, so I don't know if there are more, but there are two. Madam President. I don't think it's too much of a requirement for the ministry to be of my own will, like a platoon of the highest degree. Minister once spoke, returning the right primers, not the wrong one.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u88	A respectable president. I heard why. A senator believes that it would not be enough to offer two bills, one about land healing and, on the other, deforestation. Rather, he would have liked to see a common bill and to expect a new institution. Since I also heard his party's lawsuit, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, that he would like to imagine a resource agency or something like that, I wanted to hear a little more details about the left green ideas, if they're there, where two senators have expressed themselves on this. As we know these classes, we know that these include two regional institutions, which include some of them. has led to an obvious conflict of uniting them. They are simply afraid of where the headquarters would be. I'd love to hear from you. If you are considering taking even more factors into these institutions than you are today, a senator would be able to arrange something further. As you can see from the left green, such an institution would be in the capital area, such as the EEA headquarters, National Park Headquarters, the headquarters of the whole country and its construction, whether in the forestry or land - healing that is most developed in the country, from one large common institution in the capital area, or have been implemented somehow differently by a group of people. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u89	Madam President. I thank the senator for the questions. It is the strength of the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry how powerful their work is across the country. It's sacred even. Because the nature of being the guardians of the country often calls for people to be with the country to which they are to be guarded. If the senator turned aside from the Agency, for example. Note that half of her workers are located outside the capital area. If I recall, I'm getting a government agency to work as widely as the Environment and Resource Ministry. It is now, for example. Recently, while the world headquarters of Lakejörður National Park were being reassigned, the current environmental secretary, who reminds me, was a member of the leading class, decided to locate them in Reykjavík. [[Up front.]] It was the terns, says why. Senator. I bet. I think the Senator and I agree that all ideas of harmony in this field must take into account the success and mission we want to achieve in nature. While the number of institutions as a unit reduces the number of world headquarters, we need to be careful that the work remains strong in our country. That's where I think we can agree perfectly. Then I'd like to mention another member of the council member, who I think was probably the first to win one of these reports on the harmony of land healing and wooding, then agricultural minister, the Guðni of Augustus, who started them work because no matter where they are, they can find out and hunt them down. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u90	The president asks the speaker to respect his time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u91	A respectable president. My request to what? The senator could not understand how opposed I was to this idea, but I think it's okay. I was just wondering if there was a pack. A senator would have developed an idea of one resource institution, its location, and its function. Here we are primarily on the tribunal, land transplant, although there is certainly a land - healing agency and a land - healing manager inside it. The work of the Commissioner for Water Saffen National Park is now quite famous, for the country has a law for advertising a job without a location. It was, of course, thought that it would be possible for people out in the country to work for a state agency who would have headquarters in Reykjavík, but the only job I have, of course, been hired to do, was the job of the Commissioner for Water-Europe National Park by the then Environment Minister of the United States, if I recall correctly. The manager was then located in Reykjavík, although the park was surrounded by lake glacier. It's a little famous. I'd like to ask you what. Another point he did not take into consideration was that I turned back in response to the Supreme Court. Minister. Hv. A senator speaks of the importance of taking these classes together. Forest and environmental support, including contracts, is now under strict conditions, 40 years of contracts, paid up to 97% of the forestry cost - it's the right thing to do. A senator's guardianship is often the people of the country. Farmers make up the land, a great project, 640,650 farmers have shared in it, except for mountain segregations, transplants, and land - healing societies, all in the volunteer work that man places largely on. The rural areas suggest, but the land healing hasn't contributed much, nor has it been the government. What do you think? A senator? Did he think that bringing these two lawsuits together should be comparable to the official financial support? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u92	Madam President. I thank the senator for reminding me of the part of his previous questions that I did not answer that turned toward the left green direction in the matter. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson may be more faddlers and wonder how nature's protection can be won in benefits. Before the last election, one of our campaign policies was to establish national parks in peaceful areas below one hat. The other end of that spit would likely be something that has to do with agriculture, forestry, and other such projects. It's not a fixed opinion, it's something that I think is a solid reason for us, just like the Ministry, to examine and discuss. The senator mentioned a discrepancy between government contracts and the support given by forest farmers and farmers who perform land healings. This is something to consider. I'd like to add another group of farmers, the farmers who have a peaceful territory, natural resources, other precious areas, or the mettle of different cultures if we go to that burning place. These farmers should be able to enter some kind of agreement with the government to guard their common quality. Just as we reward farmers for cultivating forests, a group of farmers and powermen working the natural world for the better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u93	A respectable president. I have to say, I only scratch my head over the tone that I feel is in the discussion and how I react to it. A minister of the past few words. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's about this bill's villa. I'm in trouble myself. The Environment and Transport Committee will therefore need to consider this matter. I don't feel that there's anything that can be handled as if there's an error where there's an ◯land transplant in one bill, while the jungle's in the other in the wrong places. I think people should take it seriously if someone is worried that this might be an impulse. To strike a tone to counterbalance the odd tone I thought had come here, I wrote the following verses to the highest degree. Environment Minister: In a land transplant bill I've been mixed up Then you can't find wood on a branch. Whether to read the forest law here or land healing - what are you talking about? If so, I have made the first statement in this discourse and will turn to another. It's good to go. The head of the advance party is still here because I'm just going to pick up the thread from his conversation with the why. paritaprevir And Andrés Ingi Jónsson, as I see it, this is an informal management debate that will take over the government as soon as possible when we settle down to see how best these institutions will be handled. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson introduced certain issues regarding the unity of the institutions that need to be considered and now did not oppose it. But for all the fun to go away, that's maybe what I wanted to come in a little bit better. It is not just a matter of turning or killing it or not discussing the subject of the bill, such as the highest. A minister came in and thought that there was no need to answer any indication. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's time to do this. Of course, it's the subject of the case we're discussing here where a bill is proposed to correct land healing, one way or another, could have been handled. The entire code of law involved in this development is being revised. Of course, the issue is whether deforestation and land healing should be united, even if it is not found in the bill articles under this issue. I'm just wondering, because I think I'm right about this as the third law on some kind of overall review, if not the fourth, as the highest. A minister is asking for this council. Now we're going to talk about the deforestation, the Agency is here or we're going to be doing a full operation on the environment. [[Up front.]] For the EEA, many people are concerned that there is a form of government that is being established that is not correct, and that is developing other institutions, such as it is at the time of national parks. I really feel the same thing here. I'm not rolling this up to be boring. I wondered, " Is unity of forest and land really the right thing to do? ' I'm worried that a total revised law can be established in over a half century. Although I'm delighted that we're going to revise these matters, and we're going over these matters in agreement with the Supreme Court. Minister on the left. However, the Environment and Transport Committee will allow me to state that I wonder if it is right for a minister who has served a few months in office to provide as much and as decisive policy in these matters after no longer being in office. Especially since the bill is largely based on the work of a former minister. It was the highest. Ministers only agree completely with what the former Supreme Court has done. Ministers worked on these matters? I now remember hearing that the highest. A minister was not always in favor of the local officer. counsellors, but perhaps she did so in this matter. We'll discuss this today, but according to the council plan, this day will be over after eight meetings. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee was meeting today. We'll have to sit down in a short meeting as soon as these matters have been measured. Ministers and refer to the Committee that sends them out for their report. Don't we give ourselves two weeks off there? We will have the Ministry and other visitors present to discuss these matters, all of these four matters as supremely. Minister's order today. We will work on our reviews, bringing the matter to the second. and there are eight meetings left. V.E.G. A minister earlier said in his discussion today, that I think about geology, that she realized that she might not have to have all the issues she recommended here today to legalize this spring. That's why I'm even more concerned about who it is like a hawk. It may well be, I repeat, that I agree more with the points of this bill in the review of the matter than I am right now. In many ways, it seems old - fashioned and will only go over it afterwards. But it may well be at the top. Ministers, Ministry officials, and visitors manage to convince me that I'm wrong. But what do you have to do now? Is this on the secretary's prior list of matters to be legal at this time prior to the council? Is it a good thing to sit over it, to wonder if it's the right thing to do? Counts Ministers, e.g. that it should not combine land healing and forestry? It's just her attitude, then. Well, then it's nice to hear the reasons for that. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was reviewing the idea that it had been going on for quite a while. I looked up at the General Sleeps. This was first discussed in 2004. Like what? A senator introduced the then agricultural minister to check this out. Hv. A senator himself introduced a 2009 policy, that I believe. Evil was the suggestion, suddenly, into the economic group of the last government. Then, suddenly, they began to view the matter as some form of saving. V.E.G. The local agricultural minister, the Guðni of Ágústsson, was not thinking about it when he was at work. Rather, he was in charge of professional arguments. Because there's some professional evidence to that effect. It may be that there is a professional argument against it. I haven't heard them from the highest. Minister and find justice, I come here with my wish, that, when I and the rest of the council discuss these matters, the highest will come. A minister with professional reasoning rather than saying what to do. The Environment and Transport Committee can just fix some spelling errors and it's not a big question for anyone to kick a bill to find errors in them. We're all going to have a lot to do if we're going to get all the bills that are going to be measured and come on these eight meetings if we're going to look for the spelling and entry errors in them too. That's what I say as an ex-test reader. But I also have a little bit of concern when it comes to the factors that are important in this whole budget. There's a lot of good in this bill. Our goals are good and clear. I'll come in only after what I feel is missing and why I think the bill is a little old-fashioned, but it's done with good minds and goals are clear. But where will all of this rest in the measures that are taking now in connection with the Paris Convention, a battle of praise? Is this part of a financial plan? Are there any more money involved? Aren't we going to unite these institutions? To unite organizations is always a cost of money. I don't know. About 1 billion are put in the environment. The box is increased each year in the financial program. What is involved in land healing? What's going to go to the forest? There is little more to it than that if we go on all the most beautiful and exciting work we can do. Environment Minister has spoken here as another place. I would've wanted to see a new Minister's policy job, that she wouldn't have necessarily taken it as the former Supreme Minister. A minister had already been working on such matters and had set forward. Is it only to expand the language file or to believe in the highest order? A minister in the back of his heart that this is the only right way to grow wood and land healing? That's fine, then. It is just an attitude, and there is evidence to argue with her and try to work with her. I personally feel that the way we handle these matters should be seriously considered. Which are we talking about deforestation or land healing? Does Something Need Unite? Do we have to make laws about the back of our home? Why don't we think about these things all over again? According to the two laws available here, where will the recovery of wetlands be? Is it in places other than the retrieving of birch forests? Will they be assigned to their own agency? How will the restoration to existing ecosystems be guaranteed? So I say it myself has often occurred to me as an apology. Remuneration is fine, though I think the government is full of loans, let's talk about healing, it's fine for her hat. But I've thought through the years, and now I'm not referring my words specifically to the current minister, as if transplant was a bit of a magic word to dribble everything. If we were to make up the country, all other changes in ecosystems and even the environmental impact would be excluded. What changes do we need to make in order to resist the Paris meeting? How much wetlands do we need to recover? What difference does it make with existing ecosystems? How much forests do we need to grow in our polls? How much land do we have to make? What does it change about the present ecosystem? Is this supposed to be an environmental assessment? I find this very intelligent question to myself, even though I say so myself. We are so rich in it that to make up the land, to regain something, is so noble that it flaunts everything. It may well be noble, and we should be looking for it and supporting it, not mistaken in this regard. But with a change in ecosystems, there are the same rules, no matter what. I would have wanted there to be a little more vision in this and that I could see more here the clear and exciting vision that I know to the highest. Minister already has an environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u94	A respectable president. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, a certain tone of voice was planned earlier. I was amazed and, in effect, has to dismiss it if I'm to say the right thing and apologize if I've been working a little frustrated at what I said. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. This must be the place - where else but here? - where ministers and what. Congress officials discuss such important issues as land transplants and forestry. Of course, this must be done without frequent interpretation of the intention of a tone. I just wanted to have mentioned it. Hv. In this bill, a senator mentioned a vision and mentioned whether we should rather look at it, if I heard it just a second ago. A senator, a law on reimbursement. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It's a law on land healing. The old law team is old and we need to update the law. The healing process is not now merely a sowing process. [[The president calls.]] It is returning ecosystems, wetlands, and other things. That's why the projects are so intense, e.g. in it as a boy. A senator mentioned earlier, climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u95	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I'm a natural delicate flower and under the rough surface is a delicate soul. I'm sorry if I read too much in the tone. That was not mean at all, for I felt that I could share it in my company. I felt that we were no longer discussing the subject of the discussion and that we were speaking extensively about the matter. The Environment and Transport Committee should start looking for errors or not. But that's enough. Only about the rest as the highest. A minister came in, a law on reimbursement. Yes, indeed they are, but aren't some of the forestry laws? What I'm talking about is a clearer perspective in the category of languages, that part of the Ecosystem Act doesn't necessarily belong in the laws on agriculture and share in the forestry laws. I don't know. Maybe you're right. I'm quite ready to listen to reasons about that, but I still haven't heard why it's necessary that it is, for example. not united in a single institution, set up a single universal law on reimbursement, but not exchange by the recovery of ecosystems. That's what I'm talking about. I agree that this is a very necessary task when it comes to climate, but are we saying that if these changes are not completely completed before spring, land transplants will not continue their good work? [[The president calls.]] Will we be late meeting the Paris convention? That's a lot of news if it's being proclaimed by a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u96	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to have a discussion about this very matter. I've given high priority to both the lawsuits, the deforestation and land healing, in the climate. That's where we tie the carbons that are released. I'm surprised those law columns are old. They're out of shape with the present. For us to be able to strengthen, as I entered the debate, the land healing to have better and clearer cooperation with third parties, such as farmers in Farms make the land, and for capital gains to pass through, and after other events, I believe it is important that the law on land healing succeeds. There is also a larger debate and more that I happily want to take into account whether the forest and land transplants should be a single institution. I think there could be. There was an internal error where the land transplant stood, not the Forest, but maybe someone's already thinking it so far, I just don't know, but these law columns are talking. It will not be a big issue if they are to be united or united by governments around them, just to be clearly answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-03-62.u97	A respectable president. To speak clearly as you would at the highest. Ministers I say I'm concerned that these two law columns can establish a system that may not be the most suitable for the future. I think the highest. Ministers know as well as I do that if need prompts them to make adjustments in order to obtain some payment, there are many ways to do so. It may well be that this is the way back, I've said. I've said that I don't think I have the only solution to this, but I'm worried that putting a certain foundation environment in place with new laws can make it harder to change if we want to. I wonder if we might need an overall review. I'm glad to hear it. Ministers declare a will to discuss it in the future, but do we need just one complete environmental protection laws guided by a view of which all the factors we have entered? Is this perhaps the right course for all these groups of subjects? I don't want to sound like I see something special against these laws, so they say. I just want to get my concerns out of the way that I'm afraid this might be a way to get religious in the system that we might want to change and maybe it's necessary to change. [[The president calls.]] I think a single global protection laws might be the right answer.
