ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 218, on residence of the established Kingdom, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u2	Madam President. I come up here to ask a president why you can't download the council program before the week and publish each weekend. My ability to do my job as well as I would like to be affected if I have no perspective or a chance to schedule my time. And the time is short, Madam President, because I am a single parent, and I have a slight inadequacy about this lack of organization. This is not the recipe for a family-friendly job. I wondered, " Is this possible remnant of old times when mostly men were in here and women at home caring for the children? ' But the Senate work must be available to all, including single parents, but in order for it to be possible, we need to improve our work ethic. So I encourage a president to take the initiative and bring the Senate work into our day. I don't feel like I'm asking for much, just a little organization ahead of time so that I and some other senators can do our job beautifully and have a real hold on to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u3	Madam President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen said. It is extremely inhibitory for one's ability to prepare his work if there is no schedule. In fact, I would like to commend a president for the fact that yesterday's program was already scheduled for a weekend. But that is not enough because today's program was not available and the program was not available for the week. You're always in this competition. We have some kind of idea from a councilman about how the week might look, but that idea is not exhaustive. In addition, there are plenty of people in the community who are trying to organize their work for the council, and we must also take them into account by making the program clear. Some committees have been successful in getting a program ahead of time. Let's get it here too, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to take a moment to discuss the environment here at the council. First, I'd like to commend the president that we have increased the number of garbage collections at the council and the council headquarters, but I'd like to consider whether the magazines that were distributed here before the beginning of this council are necessary for us members of the council. We all have iPads and laptops, it all appeared on the council website, and it was read here by the President at the beginning of a council meeting. So I would like to direct them to the president if there is no reason to consider whether we should be more electronic and avoid print as much as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u5	A respectable president. I can't put words at the top of my words. Secretary of finance dropped a radio interview this morning. It says the highest. Secretary for the approval of the General Assembly of a transport program in October II, by permission of the President: It starts with creating wrong expectations by accepting an unfinished transport plan. In other words, it is almost immoral, I think, of the last Council. I don't think I've seen such rudeness in the years I've been following the Council. Talking about the Lawgiver's will, which is made clear in an approved transport program, and that it is immoral by the legislature. It is thus such contempt and such a distorted view of the trident system of things. V.E.G. The secretary of finance must follow the agreement of the legislature. I'd like to ask a respectable president what a respectable president will do in order to the highest degree. The secretary of finance will be disrespectful to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u6	A respectable president. I agree with what's being said. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Otter's Óttarsson, Proppér, is waiting for the highest power. President to discuss this language at the highest level. Minister, i.e. that he calls the council immoral. That's a serious matter. Here we are talking about what we ought to do by law, i.e. to work professionally on a policy plan. We did, and more than that, they made it possible for a parapolitic reconciliation. V.E.G. The president was one of the senators who voted for this program, which, according to the minister's opinion, is immoral. Then, in the same interview, the minister said that it was a mistake again when an uncontrolled council approved a financial bill. I think it's a very serious language from the highest level. Minister, that he speaks of the Allied Council of Iceland being out of control when it is the court of justice under the leadership of a president whose choice he has made and when handling a legal case. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u7	President. I would like to reiterate what has been presented in Porta's case on the need for us here to have a more disciplined and organized program so that we know what lies ahead and can prepare ourselves properly. Then I'd also like to agree with other members of the council, from the left green, who have expressed themselves about the indignities that we have experienced since the Commission. It was also this way during the last term that the council was maligned, but today it has become so that the violence of the European Commission is no longer possible. I feel very strongly that the president will try to make the minister aware of the tridentness of the power.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u8	A respectable president. Because of the repeated discussion of Pirata's lack of organization on the council, I'd like to say that I agree with them. It is not good to be unable to plan your work better in the future. But here at the highest. Little President's fault. Its main reason is the nature of Congress work here, which is somewhat special compared to that of many other countries where the length of discussion is determined in advance. Here we live in the tradition that each member of the council can come up and tore his views on a matter perhaps for as long as he chooses, and come back again and again. [[Up front.]] The nature of the case is difficult to plan in advance. [[Up front.]] In the countries it's not, it's more predictable. If we choose to go, we will arrange more for the length of the 1st and the 2nd. It is possible to plan more carefully, but it is not both released and held.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u9	Madam President. I would like to agree with those who have taken the highest criticism. Secretary of finance. This is the second time that ministers in this government do not seem to realize who is in control of society when it comes to these things. They're going to be carrying some contagious embellishment among them. Do they really think that only because they are temporarily in these offices can they take the power they want? To call it immoral by the Council to make a wish and call for projects that the people have been asking for in a number of cases, I think it's strange. And I think it's the highest. The secretary of finance has to come here and explain his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u10	Madam President. I have to ask the highest. President, to recall only with me what kind of thing this is in this country. What agency is at the highest command. Ministers? Am I not right, Madam President, to the highest degree? Ministers are acting by the authority of the Generals, and they are to do what the General approves, are they to do? Could it be that new ministers who have not sat at the council before failed to recognize their role? It's very serious, it's just very serious. I think we have to start reviewing some approved agreements that have been here in agreement with all members of the council. I remind them of the approved members of the Council of Congress, who made up a report on the General Commission, which said exactly that we would need to promote the council and strengthen its position against the European Commission. There's some kind of reverse trend going on here, there's something wrong with what they're doing, and it's gonna be Mrs. President's turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u11	Madam President. I see myself compelled to leave here quietly to defend myself. President in particular. As far as I can see, that's what they're saying. Ministers here on the subject of immoral senators are particularly applicable to the 11 members of the council who adopted a autumn transport plan and also approved budgets before Christmas. There is the highest. President of the Generals, Konráðsdóttir Bjodvisdótttótttir. I'm on her behalf that we as a council are not to sit under such insurrections. Although the minister has little congregational experience, he must, as experienced by his life's activities, be able to respect the council and his role in the affairs of democracy in this country. Such words must have to be recorded in the realms of the administrations. I expect the President to do it first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u12	President. I just want to make a decision regarding the indications that this is a mantra that has been taken here since I arrived at the Council and, actually, long before that time. A better organization has been called, so that not only members of Congress can be better prepared but also others, as noted in the debate. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, who are interested in providing the council and the nomads or other councils that go through here. How shocking it is when we call out to people of the community that they will have almost no preparatory period before they are to give a comprehensive opinion on the matters discussed here!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u13	A respectable president. The problem may also be a length of discussion in each case. But it can be a problem only when we know what is on the program at all times. After a Monday meeting of the council classes, which are neither complete nor accurate, we receive a program. There's a special discussion of about in these days. There may be this bill here. Maybe it's the next day. The Senate bill may be at the end of Wednesday. Who knows? At any rate, these are not situations that help when it comes to whether the discussion length is a problem or not. First, we need to know what we are discussing, then we can consider whether the discussion period or other factors are a special problem for us. True, it may be in some cases. But we need to know the program if we are going to be able to prepare.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u14	Madam President. I'd also like to say that I got a little bit carried away this morning when I was listening to the Waves on my way to work and hearing at the top. Ministers, because people here have been criticized for saying things that seem inappropriate. I was on a budget for Christmas and was at this job along with the highest level. President, commander. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and Supreme Court. Secretary of state. According to the minister, they were immoral. I can't agree with that. It is an enormous responsibility for the minister to speak up and to speak of the council as out of control. On a financial committee, his people and my people sat. We weren't out of control. I think we have won the bottom line in order to get together the financial laws that the present government is now hiding behind as though it was the final point and the final words of everything. [[The president calls.]] It had been said that it should not be so. Rather, it should be recorded when a new government, which she has decided to take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u15	A respectable president. I'm sorry to go to the highest. The secretary of finance is no more discouraged than he is unable to comply with the legal agreements of the council, taking the task entrusted to him by the council. Let it now be, but to respond in a way to attack the state's highest law, an institution. Secretary of finance must follow, not grand. I ask that of a respectable president at the highest. Let the minister of finance come into this chair and apologize for his words to the assembly. How can we work with the highest power? Secretary of finance with confidence already the highest power. With regard to the council as an institution, does a minister of finance think that he calls it immoral?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u16	Madam President. At this brief assembly, I have seen a minister refuse to answer, say half-truth, and even now attack the council. On the other hand, I was told that the prime committee at the last or last assembly was discussing the clothing of members of the council. Is it really that way that it is the most important project? And there's a check that you can come here and write down and refuse to answer, only if you're dressed like a 19th-century high-class man?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u17	Madam President. I just wanted to set things straight with the misunderstanding. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek says there's a problem with the schedule somehow. All of us realize that this can be a real challenge, and we may be able to change the program as necessary. But it is totally unacceptable that it is not a schedule, and it cannot be prepared in any way. Therefore, I also find the news that instead of discussing what I think is much more important and important, I have the custom of adjusting the arrangement so that we can have the program even one week ahead. We're not asking for much. A week into the future. It's simple. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u18	Madam President. Climate problems are high on the horizon these days. Last week we discussed the report of the Environment and Resource Minister on the state and policy of climate. It even says, by permission of the president: U.S.A. has every opportunity to become the head of climate conditions. Few or no countries have as good an opportunity to electricalize transportation. So many were words. That sounds good. I became aware of a proposal for a resolution on the energy exchange strategy proposed by the travel, industrial and innovation ministers. For one thing, it provides advice earlier that the tax from so - called clean - powered automobiles will be reimbursed. This process is implemented to describe the use of 5,000 to 12,500 for the first electrical vehicles and 5,000 to 12,000 for the first hydrogen cars, i.e. Those who buy them. In fact, I don't understand what the lower limit is, but I might find that even more difficult to explain. This is five years ago. So we are talking about 2,000 to 5,000 automobiles a year, depending on the limit used, at most 5,000 automobiles a year. Last December 31, there were 277,360 automobiles in the country. This means that we will soon be able to renew the automobile fleet in at least this way and by these elements. Surely we can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u19	Madam President. The nation has many uninhabited issues. For example, in 2008 there was an uncivilized financial breakdown. This decade later, it stands to sell the banks again. Wouldn't be a song to the top. The secretary of finance puts the separation of investment and business banks in place before it's done? Will we repeat the story without even renovating it? Will we post the necessary shielding into the financial system needed to make history a repeat? Unmistakably betraying the results of a national law on the foundation of a new constitution in 2012 is still deep in many, and inevitably it causes me to ask: How could it happen in a developed democratic state that nationality, in a national law, would be ignored in this way without any trace? Regardless of what humans may think of the new constitution, it must seem unnatural to humans to be in this way compromising the decision of national law. Our last time was another shock to the nation. The Panama documents revealed the betrayal of the nation's leading rulers to the public in the country. We voters for ourselves who had granted them the commission they worked for. The largest protests in Iceland were followed by the largest data leak in history. Another example is the restoration of the health system. The me - first dream of self - change continues to hover over lakes with questionable efficiency, a perceived lack of quality control, and a vast amount of money. However, the nation's health does not go together with one another. I am deeply grateful to those who gave me the authority to stand here and address a council and a nation. I thank you for your trust and will do all I can to fulfill this role properly as a member of the community and as a co-creator of voters, under the United States of America.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u20	President. The basic tool of the Icelandic student loan fund for the course of 2016-2017 is 172,788 k. per month. Basic contributions are made to a single student in a rented home or to his own housing. I can't believe anyone can live on this stratosphere. It's just not possible. I received figures from a student in Denmark where rent expenses, food, and other necessities were very moderate, but he still needs about half a million dollars. a semester to make ends meet. It's an unacceptable situation. The present system forces people who are often in a very complex, demanding study to work hard with school and thus spread their attention. This is especially evident in those who do not have much family support and who know me, for example. to a student who recently had to leave school because of lack of money. The present system is a source of anxiety and stress to students with less chemistry, but studies have shown that stress symptoms can simply reduce the ability of people to think rationally and to make good decisions, which are what I think I have a quality that is natural to want to maximise in students. This stress can lead to feelings of depression and anxiety, and it is not good. One aim of LIN should be to maximise the learning capacity of his clients, so it is reasonable to conclude that the goal of living is that students do not worry about the future and that students do not get out of school because of lack of money, depression, or anxiety, as I did in fact myself. The school school evasion is undefeated for the education system. In contrast, this can be reduced by harmonizing a trend with reality, and it is an obvious step in the right direction. I will soon request special discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u21	A respectable president. The budget of financial institutions is a phenomenon that the common people wonder about every day. In the past, the general and the government have made the matter their concern, and shortly thereafter the head of the Navigator Association discussed the matter during a radio interview. He made a talker of various bank agencies'services and informed them that they constantly received complaints from individuals who did not understand the composition and motive of pay. When banking institutions were based on reasoning, there may be few questions about answers, and the evidence is not obvious or set in motion. The head of the organization says the banking system is changing. There is a reduction in their services, number of employees, but at the same time there is an increase in remuneration, increase in the number of currency, all kinds of fees, and this requires, of course, questions. The banks are saving money by closing branch offices. They do not have to pay rent, not wages, not buy computers or furniture, and so on. Yet, there is an increase in the number of types of currency. The Chairman informed that Europe was now being introduced on the monitoring of financial costs in which the Icelanders have been back. It was important that the work was successful. A critical and effective monitoring of consumer interests is to guide them. However, there is a question in the Nettos feels that this is at the table of the FEC, which is not directly concerned with the interests of the individual business, and it is a question of whether it is its place above its head. In the European Orders, people outside the management system are authorized to monitor certain factors, e.g. ... suchaborrowment. The Chairman sees no situation in which the Neythal Association can arrive and wants to negotiate a service contract with the Ministry of finance to participate in the project. The consumer organisation is primarily concerned about the interests of its candidates, not about the interests of investors or other larger parties. Now the question is, How do governments, senators and ministers handle this need for consumers in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u22	A respectable president. A recent analysis of national records of the apartment market shows that there are about 8 of you missing. apartments, mostly for the younger generation, are now twice as low as they were at the beginning of the century. 12 You. An apartment less than 35 years of age now owns an apartment based on the 2000 to 2,2006 years of age. Let's just stop at these numbers. 8 you. apartments, what does that mean? To keep up with population growth, you need to build by 2 Thoust. apartments per year. So we owe four years of apartments. It's not too much, is it? But what are two of you? apartments a year? It's like building the Western Islands, the Seltiannes, or the Far East each year. 8 you. apartments are as much like Smokeynestown or Akureyri. In fact, National Analysis, 11 of you are missing. blister (alu/alu) That would mean building a new Hafnarfjörður. The work we're going to do is a lot of us. Health, transportation, education. And they need to build what is equal to the fourth largest town society in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u23	Madam President. I'd like to have a word with what. paritaprevir Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir. The main focus in the foreign policy of the government of Independence, the bright future, and the restoration is to work with the European Union on the European Economic Convention, as the Government Treaty of the Government. In an interview with the American newspaper The Washington Times, February 23rd. says 'w'. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, with permission of the President: ▪EFTA is not for enugh. And later, with President's permission: ▪ Right now and now is not seen, and we don't have a place in the scene English translation: As the situation is now, our voice is not heard and we are not seated at the table when the final decisions are made. Some see, if I understand this correctly and in the way that www.mbl.is described in his story, it's a good idea. The head of the State Department that the European Economic Area and Iceland Convention at the European Free Trade Association is no longer sufficient to ensure Iceland's interest in the European Union. Words go. The senator was given the wording of the vice president of the Annexe and Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday, where the minister of foreign affairs said he did not agree with the president of the State Department. How about that? A senator in exactly this interview with The Washington Times? If it does not believe in the European Economic Area Convention or in Iceland to EFTA, does it not believe in the foreign policy of its government? Is there an agreement within the government groups on this position on the EEA Treaty? Has the vice president's attitude to the EEA and EFTA been discussed within the governments? Has a what? A senator further discussed his position with the minister of foreign affairs? Is there a significant change in government foreign policy when it comes to the EEA and EFTA? That's what I'd like to hear from what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u24	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss Iceland's position in the international community. I welcome every opportunity to participate in such communication. Government policy is very clear in this case, i.e. That we shall remember, like a bang. A senator came on, bases our cooperation with the European Union on the EEA Convention, end-and this knows why. A senator - it is the One who provides us with access to Europe's inner market, the fundamental interests of the nation. The Treaty also makes it clear that the views of each member of the board may differ when it comes to possible votes for the Member States' and the European Union's Member States. The contrast is not surprising to any who observe the discussions about foreign affairs in this country. The difference of opinion is then crystal in the opinion between groups of Iceland's interests as to whether it is possibly better off within or outside the European Union. And she's no secret and she's never been. That is why this is so clearly mentioned in the government covenant. That is why the Treaty, which I find so sound in my view, also says that the classes may have different views, and they respect one another. It's reflecting here. It's the end of freedom of speech and of expression in this country. But what matters most is that I and the highest. Foreign Ministers agree fully with each other in ensuring Iceland's interests and protecting them internationally. It is something that we agree completely with, and we have very good relationships.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u25	Madam President. It has not been overlooked, however, that the last few days have been the case with transportation. I'm going to continue to do so here, and I'm going to start by quoting the board of directors that says, by permission of the president: During the past few years, there has been a large growth in transport conditions, especially as a result of the growth of tourists. In this light, the growth in transport development will be increased in all areas. These are important words. In view of what has happened, I would like to have a word for it. The chairman of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, in which we were a financial minister - I have to ask him if he will agree with the speech as the highest authority. A minister has dealt with these matters and our efforts as members of the Parliament in the matter, as it occurred in budgets and as a means of transportation. Hv. A senator himself said in a part of RUS, reminds me, as he and other members of the council, that he was not going to rule out the following, by permission of the president: The government today would revise the budget for this year. In the autumn, we always counted in the budget that in some way a new government would bring a new budget bill. Hv. A senator was certainly not making new donations, but he mentioned this. We need something to do, I don't think we can leave it there. We have had far - reaching consultations with our rural society, which have set priorities and all of this we know. Could the senator imagine that we would raise the markets of income companies? It's often spoken and it's the highest. The minister of finance thus spoke this morning as if they were completely finished. But it is not. We can, for example, use the law on the price of vehicles, fuel fees, and so on, on oil and gasoline charges - they can be used for e.g. higher, we can bring them closer to the price of the dollar. [[The president calls.]] So I ask why. A senator whether he sees the route to move or someone else because it is possible to do so immediately and make it happen at the next month's meeting? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for pointing her words to me in this way. We were on the budget together in December. and she knows that job well. In fact, we worked together. A legal committee during the last term so that we know some of the work we are dealing with in the financial process. It was truly discussed. Because of what? I'm just going to confirm that we discussed it on a budget board that there was a possibility that a new government, whatever it might be, would be possible because it wasn't available at that time which government would apply, would bring up a bill about changing the budgets that were being handled by the then financial legal committee. I'm not telling you we're going to change the law. Besides, I'm not ready to agree that we're going to change the amount of revenue that we have for road construction. We can also use other methods to do so. That's why it's the highest. Jón Gunnarsson's secretary of transportation opened the discussion about other means of transportation. However, it is quite correct, and I'm just going to agree and underline it, that this government has stressed the development of transport systems in all areas. I believe this will be seen in the future financial program that will enter the council on spring. We're still dealing with the so - called financial agenda. The budget that makes up the box, but the frame we're dealing with, the financial resources of the state, also tells us that we can start the development of transport workers. We can also go more quickly by using a different thought and approach to their funding rather than just raising these farms because of the transport sector's revenues. e.g. not increasing number of vehicles using other sources of energy. That is why we must examine that exchange from the ground to the ground. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u27	V.E.G. President. Now the situation is that there is plenty to be taken. More and more probing, the question is, What issues do the government groups agree with? Where's the beat? Discrimination in a lawsuit at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs and the chairman of the State Department were identified here yesterday. One considers that the membership of EFTA is no longer sufficient to protect Iceland's interests while the other considers it sufficient. V.E.G. President. There are men from all categories who are furious at the highest level of treatment. Transporter on transport schedule. It looks like the highest. A minister would have avoided the council by setting priorities just himself. V.E.G. A minister is a capable man, but this may be a lot of hard work. V.E.G. President. I expect a case will become clear when it's the highest level. Minister is meeting the council committees. High-level playoffs. I'll discuss farm contracts with a agricultural minister later. It makes me look like I'm getting the beat on the top of the team. Prime Minister. During a week's program, a panel of progressive candidates concluded on the rebuilding of an emergency runway in Reykjavík, knowing that there is still a way to ensure the greater security of the people of the country by opening it. The fact is that the members of the United States, the Independence Party, the Bright Future, the Left Green, and Pirata have agreed to a change in disorganization that involves increased building privileges in the area of Honduras. Foremost changes include an increase in buildings that are in approach to an emergency runway. The proposal lies before the city council today for the ultimate payment. If it comes through, it is clear that the re-enabled path is virtually impossible. V.E.G. President. In this case, the representatives of the Fund and airport friends have been up - to - date, offering suggestions for solutions that all stakeholders can enjoy. They have been rejected. Solutions turn, including in order to avoid the obstacle to the disaster that serves all citizens of the country and to strengthen the capital in its role as the capital of all the people. [[The president calls.]] I hope more of us are on the watch in this important matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u28	Madam President. It's just natural and probably normal. Senators are able to handle small issues. However, once an agreement has been made on how to handle matters, the agreement must be agreed. Despite the lack of confidence in the people at the General Assembly, we members of the Parliament have been able to trust that an agreement made between classes will be held. We've been able to trust it here to at least. We senators faced some challenge in that December program. when there was no success in administrative talks, despite discussions and palpation of various kinds. Before 2017, a financial bill was presented. We all knew that it was very important for society to have money in the new year. But we all also knew that the classes were far apart and that priorities and priorities were unlikely to be covered together. The only way to complete the project was to try to reach an agreement between all groups of conclusions. If each group had proposed a change, it could have happened that nothing had been accepted. Or it could have been that the cashiers had been approved but that was not the case. And then there would be the atmosphere of the wild West here in the Hall of Congress. We didn't want to. Meetings were made based on priorities, especially in health, transportation, and education. No one got everything, but everyone got something. Now we're getting reports of the ultimate. A secretary of transportation will betray that agreement. V.E.G. Minister's office is represented by the Generals. If the news of the betrayal is correct, the trust is at the top. A secretary of transportation outside, but also the trust in those members of Congress who accept the fraud of the agreement. That's a serious situation. We must be able to count on the agreement made in the name of all classes. Otherwise, the honour of the Generals is nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u29	A respectable president. It is for working to promote a parapolitic solidarity at this relatively controversial time at the General Assembly. My concern is the Lake Mice and its area, which need not be multiplied as a natural value level. Today, as a result of population growth and agricultural agriculture, the least increasing number of tourists are being made available in poor conditions during the past three, four years, or so. Now, with extreme seriousness, we are discussing enormous improvements, in fact, in typical Iceland style, responding when men are about to dig into corners. But okay, let's break them up. It's not too late. Because of the protection of Lake Mesar and because the region is called Ramsar, the international reservation of water and wetlands, it stands up at the State and saves Lake from the damage to which continued inadequate drainage and disposal of waste results. The price tag is hair. In part because of the late recovery process. That's one thousand 700,700,800 million. K. Now we've got a what? The Environment and Transport Committee opened its project on the initiative of the Chairman and will work its work in considerable harmony. Then it is just as necessary that as most members of the council do the same, in behalf of Myy Lake, the people, the tourists, all of us, and in the interest of natural and reasonable protection. That's why I'm here from this public address. Often needed, but now is necessary. Because we're all Miy's friends, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u30	V.E.G. President. The Ultra Right Government is a weak government. It is obvious that all passion is lacking in the relationship despite some common interests such as increasing privatization in the health system and the privatization of the banking system without the existence of a clear ownership, alcohol at the grocery stores, and now the last news of Icelandic officials meeting representatives of the hedge fund that did not participate in the campaign in the autumn. To top the world has the highest power. The secretary of finance gives a bill that aims to legalize success loans to consumers who have failed to defend the risk of such loans. The bill has a divorce that only the consumers can take a successful loan with sufficient income to deal with significant changes in the interest of such loans. So they will only be available to wealthy ones. Sigurjónsson Sigurjónsson, former senator of the Frustration Party, warns about loans on his blog, and I would like to read a short chapter of this article, with the permission of a president: To reduce the expansion of the economy, the Internet bank uses the steering growth device. When steering growth increases, the cost of borrowing is higher, so people are more likely to wait on new projects or to take more slowly into investments. If the secretary's bill is legalized, they will be able to shoot away from the steering growth system by borrowing gangstad loans on lower interest rates that have nothing to do with the Sports Bank's steering growth. Thus, they will be able to maintain their level of expansion, but instead all the rest of the community must endure the much more maintenance of money policy. V.E.G. President. The health system for the privileged groups. Weeds for privileged groups. Roadways for those who can afford them; others can take the longer way. Personal friendship with the banking system. Everything's on the right side of the board. I'm really worried about the road we're on, and you, my fellow Americans, should have it too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u31	Madam President. I would like to proceed with this meeting's program to proceed with a discussion that has taken place both today and yesterday, under the supervision of President's conference board, on the General Assembly, and on the decisions made here, and on how it seems that it is not necessary to follow up. This has been particularly encouraging in our discussion of the transport program. I have to say, it didn't get better with a statement. A minister of finance quoted earlier that referred to it as almost immoral by the Generals to accept a money - money - money plan. I think this is going to turn right. Of course, it is the project to implement what has been determined in this room. Unfortunately, there are other locations. Thus was yesterday's inquiry and discussion related to an optional U.S. Convention on torture, which is under the name OPCAT, which has not been implemented despite its approval at the General Assembly in December 2015. That's when they said the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen said it was just a way of blessing the financial support that it was limited. I am so worried that the company seems to be able to ignore the approval of the Generals and merely point out that the funds do not exist, but they are completely opposed to obtaining the necessary income in order to bring about the approval of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid this will end by the highest level. The government will not do anything, for there will be no money, for it cannot be earned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u32	Madam President. It's all on fire in the community because of an inexpensive transport program. So dare you. The secretary of finance sees to it that the council is immoral and out of control, freeing itself of all responsibility. Each wording is out of the mouth of the highest. Secretary of finance? Of course, that is not acceptable. V.E.G. A minister should come here and apologize for this speech to the council and the people. Is speaking to the council on this basis? Not okay. It is only natural for us senators to raise our voices at the council because of the failure of a transport program. The Congress suggests a transport plan, and I believe it is immoral on the part of the Ministry of finance not to look to it and not to look for ways to finance a financial transport program. Money does not fall from the sky to some lottery in this country. It takes courage to make money. He doesn't seem to exist for the highest level. Government. She doesn't have the guts to make money. When can construction be started in the infrastructure if not now in the so - called goods of the country, when the largest business roads, tourism, purging gold, and a huge currency get into the country? When can we afford to build the transportation, the health system, the education system? When? When it's all gone, what the hell is going on here? They are afraid to earn money or to make money on the roadside income, not add where there is a need, and give up money; they continue to do so. Of course, that doesn't work any longer. The most vulnerable area, the West, is cut down by some 1,200 million. [[The president calls.]] Although other areas really need funding, the urban region has a very special message that the Western world is cut down, some 1,200 million. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u33	President. The Pirats and I had an excellent relationship with the former Minister of Internal Affairs, Olöfu Nordal, during our last term on the status of prisoners and its reforms. It is my sincere hope that the current minister of the seminary will continue to make progressive improvements when it comes to fixing very serious problems with our system. It is vital that we take from the punishmenter's thinking to humanable resources for those who want to improve and make use of the detriment to begin over again. Sadly, some resources are available, both in penalties, but especially when decommissioning is completed, and all too often, people end bones in the same pattern after they have completed a sentence. A very thorough investigation of the prisoner's situation recently made by Ingibjörg Dögg Kjartansdóttir, a journalist of the hour, and there are very many striking examples of government failure and failure to make serious solutions and capitals into the seminary. A significant point was discussed here at the Senate Hall when a new overall law on criminal policy was passed last year, but what was very vivid to the position of this class is how seldom the sentence was made in the bill and how penalisticism is still indentified in the ideas of penalties and resources on the responsibility of criminal behaviour. President. Anyone observing this series of subjects knows that there is a great need for more psychologists who are taking care of prisoners. Now there are only two psychologists who are supposed to care for the whole country, but I have reliable sources that give no such service to prisoners in Akureyri. Last day, a prisoner died from attempted suicide in Akureyri Prison. I really hope that there will be grounds for ensuring prisoners who have some sort of shock relief and psychological assistance. Of course, psychological services should be part of daily activities at every station called prison. In that case, it is very serious that psychiatric inmates are not allowed to maintain comparable treatment in prison. Everyone must agree that the sick are not to be kept in prisons. And the goal of punishing people for spiritual illness is to change. But better still, it is not enough to talk about the problems indefinitely if nothing is done to fix them. This year's follow-up with a report published by the Council of Congress on Organization and Penitentiary, 2010, shows the following, by permission of the President: In 2013, The State's Accounting repeated one indication to the Ministry of Health, i.e. to ensure appropriate medical care and to meet their needs with appropriate diagnosis and management, including mental health care units. They would have to shape the overall policy of mental, disabled, and elderly courting issues and ensure that this course would be implemented. Go on says: In the Ministry's reply in 2016, it was reported that the President's Summit was being implemented. Recently, a multiorganized members of the State Department would have been assigned to discuss the issues of mental prisoners. It would include the local Ministry, the Ministry of Health, the Prison Department, the Prison Guard, the National Rights Office for Human Rights, the National Hospital, and the National Health Organization for the South. [...] Then the Ministry continued to work to sharpen policy and to improve the resources for those in our country's prisons who would need mental - health care. In view of this, I want clear answers from the highest. Minister of Justice on the situation in the work force and why sides, a partner of prisoners, are not invited into this working group. President. When you look closely at how things are handled against prisoners, you cannot help but wonder that they are, for example, the case. It's a matter of course, that prisoners receive a lot less pay than other employees. For this very reason, it has been very difficult to find versatile jobs for prisoners. You see, when people are deprived of their freedom and nothing is at their disposal, feelings of distress overflow with so much sorrow that everything is tried, as human nature is, in an effort to escape the insensibility. It is known that prisoners try to get high by drinking razors, perfumes, acetones, and other life - threatening filth to numb themselves. Yet, it is well - known that sober walking and general self - help can help to alleviate intense and unbearable feelings of distress. How sad, then, that there are no such provisions available for female prisoners, and in fact, it is well - known according to statistics that women are less able to serve in open - airs. The lack of separate resources for protection is a absurd lack of understanding by the authorities, but it has repeatedly been shown that the system is designed according to the needs of male prisoners. For example, it has been decided that Hormour's employee would regularly come to the women's prison and discuss with the prisoners, so it was probably over because it was too costly. I will review the questions I need answers in a later talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u34	A respectable president. Thank you for bringing up this important subject. In the beginning, it is true that punishment has many roles. It is obvious that punishment is punishment. Punishment is intended to be a warning example, but punishment is also intended to reduce the recurrence of offenses. Happily, those who have been highly tamed during the past years are more likely to use the term a correction, but this last goal is intended to reduce the recurrence of fractures. Work and study are part of reform, but there are other factors, such as the reasonable and humanitarian way of handling the entire system of service. I'm calling it here because we're asking if there's a ideological review or punishment issue. In a new law approved by the General last year, the reform policy was legalized. In 1st. The law of the law says that the aim of the law is to reduce the likelihood of fragmentation and to promote ecstatic correction and correction of the social tolerance. The goal of gratifying fully, too, is to prepare for active participation in society and to minimize the damage to society's elimination inevitably brings. With these laws, the rights of prisoners were increased by making full use of extraministries, such as community service and electronic surveillance, work and extramarital education, family leave, and the like. There are resources, as well as others, that are the law's licenses to reduce the negative effects of penalties in prison and help prisoners to adapt to society again and to contribute to a lower return rate. In general, the value of saving outside prison has been increased. Electrocardiographic monitoring has been adopted as full-scale and mobilized. Long - term prisoners, in the case of long - term penalties, can serve the last 12 months at home with an ankle band. Similarly, the importance of community service has increased. They can serve as long as 12 months in prison sentence with community service instead of prison to meet certain conditions. In this regard, I would also like to mention that there has been a group of people who have been working specifically on the issues of mental prisoners. That group was appointed at the end of 2015. It was planned from the beginning that the work group would be fully planned and the results of this service group would be entered into the programme. The task force has not completed, but the work programme will be completed in the next few weeks as a full plan as planned. In any case, the full schedule will be presented here this year. The need to take into account the mental state and to shape the overall policy on the issues related to it will be taken into account in the complete and full schedule. Because this was specifically referred to as the prisoner's Economic Association, only the society's viewpoint can be expressed and the work of the proper schedule. It is true here that the situation of mental - health inmates or those who need the services of mental - health professionals is still in distress in prisons, to say exactly what it is, perhaps the way it is out of prison. There is no doubt that this service needs to be improved. Today, there are two principles of psychologists at the Prison Department. It has sometimes been difficult for humans to do so, but the prison institution itself has assessed it to mean that a large part of a prisoner needs some sort of treatment if it was to be well treated, especially to achieve the goal of reducing the return rate in prisons. I'd like to mention, though, at the end of her return rate, that she has the best convention in Iceland compared to the rest of the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u35	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advocate of this discussion, which will place your finger on a very large number of important questions that each one would really have in a special discussion. This transformation in which we are moving from criminal policy to reform is for the good and as shown by the Supreme Court. This is one of the most efficient ways to reduce the return of prisoners and to help them gain a better life. Correction requires a cross-cutting job within the jails, which is too likely to be interpreted as an adjunct, not a nuclear mechanism, and is under attack when the jam chair is tightened in public prison institutions. I would like to hear from the Minister's office, in view of what we expect to see to be done in the prison system is the handsome arrival of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, whether of the Health or Social Affairs, and then the team to help the bank return within the prison wall and then help them to stay on course straight when they get out of prison. Then I'd like to hear from the minister of financing because we hear too often these days that public financial laws are used as an excuse for public starving policy. May we expect the minister to take the lead in reflecting the needs that are certainly there for multiracial, varied, and ambitious service to prisoners to keep them from breaking off again? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Before the discussion, Birgitta Jónsdóttir brings attention to this important subject. Sadly, though, the group of people with whom there is no too many proverbs is heard the view that those in prisons are worth little of a good thing. Hv. A senator specifically asked what resources are available for prisoners when punishment is completed to help them become active citizens and to avoid getting into trouble again, adapting to the community after the loan. I'd like to allow myself in the context of using a bill as a song. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has submitted, and I'm with an importer that along with more whales. Councilmen. There is a suggestion for a change in unemployment insurance law, and it is suggested that if a prisoner has won or been in school or training during a sentence, he will be able to obtain the right to unemployment after abduction. This is important, for it is not always easy for someone who is coming out of prison to get a job right away. It's not good to stand up for a job without improvement, and this has to be fixed. Why is this important? Yes, it is obvious that if a person does not have a support network to get back in the community, the person is more likely to get off the path again. A respectable president. Getting these changes ahead increases the motivation and thus the likelihood that prisoners will pursue work or study and/or use training in prison because it will also help them in the end of the sentence. As a result, the opportunity to get back to your feet and start a new life within the boundaries of the law instead of getting lost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter for starting this discussion, as well as for the minister for her answers. There are many questions raised here, but what I especially want to mention in this discussion is preparation and what we can do to help prisoners get back into society and, hopefully, reduce their return to prison. In fact, repeated studies conducted both here and abroad have shown that there is often a great deal of anxiety and uncertainty in prisoners on the end of the sentence. The uncertainty has to do with the same factors. This is family ties; how will family members receive them when they come out of prison? Will there be a safe haven? Will there be a place to live? What about money to survive? Can you get a job? Does anyone plan to hire me for a job where I've been in prison? These studies have also shown that although we feel that we could have much better resources in prisons and that things are far better off, those who have been involved in the treatments and measures offered in prisons are better able to cope. It is also very clear that the probability or risk of recurrence, the recurrence pattern, is associated with high consumption patterns or use of substances and alcohol. According to these research, most people are in great consumption while out in the community. Therefore, there is a very high need for therapeutic measures. I want to reiterate what I mentioned here in particular about the housing issues. Now we have a free association organization like a protection that's been doing a job helping us get back into society. However, there is a need to ensure that living quarters are readily available when people are getting their feet on, and that these groups are especially close to this group, since they have repeatedly come under and are not given the attention they need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert for the discussion and Minister for the answers. In this discussion, not everything is simple. Here, however, there are conflicting views of punishment and correction. Here, too, big questions are asked about some resources available to prisoners or to be available. I agree with a saying that a change of viewpoint in the affairs of prisoners needs to be made, and correction should be stressed much more. The Treaty specifically states that in order to reduce the frequency of return in prison, there should be a review of policies in the category of litigation. We need to do better on the loan and on the end of the sentence. In this brief introductory process, I want to introduce myself to the concern that there are no health services available in our country's prisons, just like outside prisons. As a result of reform, I'd also like to enter an education in prisons. We should strengthen that choice among prisoners, since education is one of the most important elements in their efforts to reduce the trace of crime. There should be a wide variety of treatment options. In my opinion, we need to remake a review of the prison system with clear reform policy, just as the Norwegian government has successfully done. Prison isn't just punishment. It can also be an opportunity for people to turn around and rebuild their lives. The goal of sentence must be clear, pointing forward to the path and ensuring a successful return to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u39	Madam President. Thanks, man. Senator, for the discussion. I'd like to mention one thing that might be more appropriate in our arrangement of full punishment. In the North and most neighboring countries, judges can judge people for community service. This can be a good alternative, e.g. for youths who wander away. The results of the offense are not too severe. A mild punishment is more likely to be punished. In Iceland, a judge has merely decided to use many offenses to judge people in prisons, probation or illegally. A man sentenced to an illegal prison may then be applying for a temporary prison facility rather than a community service. Hence, whether a man sentenced to prison would serve further in community service is in the power of the administration. This has some negative consequences. First, there is a question as to whether this corresponds to the constitution of the tribunal government, that the government changes the newly established judgments of the court. Second of all, it's very omnipotent. Decisions are not published as judges, so they cannot determine whether they are equal to others in a similar situation. Also, because of this transparency, defenders cannot tell their clients enough about what they can expect. This is likely to result in repeated sentences by judges in probational prisons, regressing to sentence them to incorrigibly punishment. The young person who receives probation may feel that there are no consequences, and then he repeatedly breaks down without experiencing the consequences. The terms of divorce are then raised until the person receives an illegal judgment that takes into account a break in probation and may therefore become quite long and hard. It would be better if the courts in the process could quickly render the subject a social service that would be designed to direct him in the right direction. Thus, the arrangement is omnipresent, not well put to the test, and lawyers have questioned whether there is a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u40	A respectable president. A person with a sense of freedom is very serious. The severity is not reflected in the prison funds. Over time, people on both sides have received the message that the act of removing a person from the community, shutting her up, severely limiting her time with loved ones, and actually living if something is done, has always been done, and no one loses sleep. That's not a big deal. Why do we use such medieval devices as prisons that have never proved satisfactory? How does one of our shift-aid society make better? What is our justification for removing people from their lives, a time that could be said to be the only thing that any of us really have, and without a clear plan on what is being done to bring a better person back into society? In prisons there is an urgent need for mental - health service. We set laws, make sure they're carried out. We lock people away and then we don't do them properly and we realize we're broke. Is it unreasonable that individuals have a serious mental - health service, get to meet experts, psychologists, sociologists, at a time when we take everything away? No, she's not unfair. More important, it is what is needed to achieve goals through the loss of freedom. Why have a system that does not serve its goals? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the adulation, okay? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, for this discussion and the highest. Minister Sigríður Á. Andersen for her answers in these matters. It is very important that we discuss the situation of prisoners and where we can do better, which, of course, is widely available. I'd like to look at some things, but I appreciate the emphasis. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson has a community service I believe is necessary to revise. He considered the benefits of changing the system. As we have seen, much is involved. I think it's our duty to examine the foundation as far as we can. Why is there so much of a prisoner young man? Where have we failed young men? Yes, in mental health, but not just in young men, but in certain respects all prisoners. We need to strengthen our system at the first stage of the problem, since we must not deal with those who suffer from mental illness. It must be our long - term goal to reduce the number of prisoners and put the matter of mental health in the context of government - health policies. We support those who suffer from mental problems in the country's prisons, including the U.S. ... witha improved psychiatric service in there. It's part of the reform policy. I hope that the results of the Department of Internal Affairs now in charge of a state of mental prisoner will be of good use to new Ministers in this regard when he is due to be completed. Then I'd like to focus on a waiting list for abduction. There's a serious situation where people are waiting for a loan, that people aren't allowed to finish their business. With increased complete extracurricular surveillance, and new prisons, I believe that this list will be reduced, for it is not acceptable for countless people to wait for longer in prison. Some time must be too long to allow individuals to wait for an execution. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only on the stand of court lists and its emphasis to meet them. A respectable president. We're waiting for an important assignment here. I am prepared to support the minister and members of the council for all the good works of this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u42	Madam President. I appreciate your adulation, because it contains these as well as other things that matter. We need a complete approach where we need to establish both the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Education. In itself, there is no need for ideas to produce fine results for the socialized solutions to the people in this position, but things tend to be more slow than you would like. There have been some practical suggestions for improvement in prisoners' issues, e.g. Advice from the chief of police in the capital area, a solution similar to a project set up in Denmark. It is about the addition of more social assistance to prisoners during abduction, and in the end of the loan, they also receive social assistance from the local community. But our system, like so many other things, is heavily underdeveloped to cope with such problems. There's no sense of follow-up. The states of the North, outside Iceland, have been inexorably reformed with a reduction in crime, a decrease in return and cost of prisons, police, and courts. I agree with the view that engineering, training, and family communication, especially for their children, are the key to reform. And I also hope the Minister of Education will highlight it in his work because the General Information and Education Committee will be with both. We are to approach a prison case based on the human friendship and ideas of helping those who have been judged to have success in life. Away from the fact that such a approach results in money, the main issue is that individuals and their entire environment will improve their taste. According to the National Review of Child Protection in the country, special treatments for children 16◯18 years of age who suffer from severe drug problems, criminal behavior, and children with multiple mental disorders and behavioural problems have to be ensured. Our responsibility is to respond with an early intervention to do all we can to prevent young people from being led into crime. However, the government also needs to ensure that the rights and proper means of a prisoner's education and proper health care. We are to emphasize reformary care rather than criminal justice in the country's prisons and to promote mental health as well as community service instead of prison punishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u43	A respectable president. Fjodor Dostojevskí should have said that society can be judged by the way it treats prisoners. I always thought it was a fascinating way of assessing the quality of society. Of course, this is not the only way or the most commonly used way, but the meaning is that quality will be measured, not by viewing those who have the best of it, but of those who have the worst. And not only the poor and the sick, but most often they have compassion for society but also for those who are sorry and who do not have that compassion. Our attitude toward them is not only a measure of the material wealth of society but also our respect for the principles of the legal state, this less popular rights of my popular people. During an interview on an American TV show, the spiritist asked a prisoner who had spent most of his life in prison and would most likely end it there as life was, what food was like, whether the beds were hard and the clothes were uncomfortable. The answer was something like that, depending on my memory: Everyone asks about the fishy conditions. We can adapt. There's another challenge. However, the problem in this category is that despite the actions that highlight the divine name's support, the issue can be removed when a particular category of offenses or even certain offenders are involved. It was seen during discussions of the changed laws on the ultimate punishment here during the last term. The way in which you walk is very good. But experience shows that it is not obvious that the public is always satisfied. Not only is it enough to claim to follow a main policy but it has to come up with its implementation, back up humane penalties, back up shorter and varied penalties, and do not automatically agree on a longer line simply to sound as if you are taking the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u44	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, for the necessary discussion because as a nation, we must change our attitude toward punishment or imprisonment from punishment to penalties. I still feel that if you watch social media and stuff like that, many of them are in that place that prison is some kind of luxury. I had a good day two years ago, on Little Ladun and Sugni, with that particular prison chief Margrét Frímannsdóttir's daughter. I stayed there with her from morning till evening, took a good look at the situation, met many prisoners, spoke to a jailer, and it was a very revealing visit, to say the least. Many of the discussions here have shown that all of us want to stress the increased education of prisoners, treatments, and mental health, and help there. I agree with that. Now we've got Little Lollipops and a number of jobs that prisoners can do. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she plans to use herself for an improved situation. One of the carpenters there, for example. I don't think it's hanging together, she's snorkeling, it's all in a very bad condition, and it's an eternal noise for those who run the prison to find a job, an adequate task for the prisoners, because many prisoners want to win. They want to win. A person must have an opportunity, and he must see the purpose of improving himself. A person must gain self - respect. For example, many prisoners, as mentioned earlier, have been released early from school, which can hardly be read. Just giving people a chance to learn to read is the beginning of something. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson for mentioning the bill before the council. I'd also like to ask the Minister about that bill in her position. [[The president calls.]] Or does it have another idea, another way that can help people when they come out of prison, something that takes over? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's important too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u45	A respectable president. I appreciate the initiative in starting this discussion and the Minister for participating in it with us. According to the branch office's numbers, a vast majority of the men in their 30's and 30's have only completed a basic school test. Many of them have never even been in a public labour market. Thus, it can be very difficult for these men to get up in prison, with little or no education or even no experience in life. Today, there is very limited rehabilitation, training, or support available after the end of the sentence. The position, the society of prisoners, and other interested persons on improving prison affairs and correction, speaks extensively of the fact that the jails will be written out by trademen, builders, painters, pipes, or cooks - this is their view - instead of having 60% inmates graduate as micromaths. In this country, governments have not taken the policy to turn prison affairs into reformed custody rather than punishment. Privacy means that prisons offer participation in some upbuilding activities and provide access to expert services in the eye to help them return to society in a better place. It plays access to suitable education, and leisure activities are of great importance. Steps this way have been set on land, but we still have a long way to go. In the North, reformation and its impact on society have been extensively investigated. The success of the countries in question is not only a reduced return rate in prisons but also a decrease in crime, as well as a decrease in the cost of police, prisons, and courts as shown here. Money has increased in the form of taxes, and the cost of concentration disability has been reduced. Today, in Norway, the return rate of prisoners is about 203/425%, while Iceland, as well as other countries with a criminal system, an average of 50% and more. [[The president calls.]] We have to do better than that. A garment should be able to return to the community after the death of abduction as a better person. Of course, that is a benefit both to the prisoner himself and to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u46	President. The State Department's discretion establishes partnerships with rural society and government agencies, such as the United States of America. A labour agency, to shape a special process and program for prisoners that should begin some time before the execution of a sentence is completed so that the prisoner is prepared and has something to disappear? For example, in Denmark, negotiations have been made with rural society and Norway with a free group that ensures that there is no prisoner without a home or livelihood when he comes out of prison. Thus the correction continues for prisoners who wish to accept it. Although this may not be directly done by the Ministry of State, the Ministry has shown interest in paying attention to how those who complete a sentence get a public service in the welfare system and to each member of the community, even though the assistance discussed is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Ólöf Nordal, when serving the Minister of Internal Affairs, informed him to consult with the Ministry of Health to link these classes would have been in the load during the last term. In this context, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that there is reason to ensure an equality will be protected against female prisoners when it comes to the punishment of open prisons and residence comparable to protection. Now this group of paintings is huge, as we have seen. Clearly, I will need more special discussions at the highest level. Minister on penalties for e.g. children and adolescents Clearly, no improvements will take place except at the highest level. The Minister of Justice intends to fight for more money in the seminary. So I'd like to know if she's planning to do it. At least there are eight psychologists and a lot more social workers. It's gonna cost you. Then I'd like to think that a comeback is not a comeback in our system if the person hasn't been in jail for the last five years, so to speak. Finally, I want to thank you very much. Minister for the discussion, as well as for others here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u47	A respectable president. That question was addressed to me about how many people are now waiting for an execution, but there are, of course, basic human rights that humans can start a sentence as soon as possible. To answer, some 550 people are on a witnessing list. It's a rather high number, it seems to be, but it's to be remembered that prisons in a closed prison in Iceland include 56, including security. Of these, at least eight are set aside for women, and 45 are in open prisons. For the past few years, there has been no improvement in prison income. It must be remembered that a new prison has been taken into account, and the amount of money that has gone into the litigation party has been greatly increased. and therefore is contraindicated. That was an act of justice. Now in progress, as I have mentioned, a prison plan is made up of 15 - year - olds, which is part of a court order that will be presented here at the next loss in several chapters. The prison plan puts emphasis on consulting some of the advice of this group of languages, e.g. At that time, the Ministry of Health and Education, as well as the Ministry of Justice. I'd also like to mention here that I think it was my first formal task as Minister to issue a new law on approval for prisoners. In this Regulation, study is conducted at a higher level than it used to be. Now there is as much to be paid for study as it is for work. There's a lot of work there. [[The president calls.]] If I could quickly add it, it may be, at the top of a female prisoner's palace, a position to study for a female prisoner, that is not as good as for men. I'd like to finally thank you very much for this discussion. It's shocking that you can't answer one question that was directly addressed to me. I urge senators to take these matters on tighter terms than this one was. Thank you for the pleasant discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend an interpretation resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. According to Article 3. track No. 48/2011, for a protection and energy efficiency programme, or a daily framework plan as called, should be submitted at least every four years to the General Council for a resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme. The programme shall, in accordance with the objectives of the above-mentioned legislation, evaluate the protection and energy efficiency of geographical and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. Thus, a Ramma plan is a very important means of managing large and often difficult issues that have caused great controversy in our community. Without it, nothing complete would be won. It would be merely a basket of primacy. So it is important that all stakeholders show reasonableness toward this work, take into consideration other viewpoints, and realize that there is something that everyone needs to yield to. Another would be a strange compromise. The motion I recommend here is the final point at work at the 3rd point of a frame plan that has taken place since 2013. It is important to remind you that this is the first time that the work on the Framework Programme is carried out in accordance with national protection and energy efficiency laws, which were fully implemented in 2013. A Framework Programme covers land areas and activation options for which the project management of the programme has discussed and has installed a power source of 10 MW or more or more or a heat source of 50 MW or more. The strategy on energy initiatives requested by energy companies to have the evaluation and also the benefits that Energy Agency has requested to be evaluated. On January 14, 2013, the current budget was adopted at the General Assembly, and the law of No. 48/2011, except for 1,◯3. par. The law of law, which had become valid on May 20, 2011. On March 25, 2013, the current Environment and Resource Minister for Project Management made up of Article 8. track No. 48/2011 and then started working on the 3rd point of a frame plan which I recommend here. As members of the Parliament know, it was requested by a project management to speed up the discussion of eight activation options and to begin the process of priorities. The process ended by the General agreeing that the activation option for Hagming would be moved from the waiting category to the energy generation. Along with a discussion of the priming initiatives in priorities, the project management was able to deal with the activation options it was sent for a discussion in the third part of the Framework Programme. On March 10, 2014, the Agency's first appointment was to provide a list of activation options for discussion, but the project manager was granted to the project on February 21, 2015. The task management board appointed four professional groups to review priming plans from their own perspective, evaluate them, and provide suggestions for project management. According to 1st mg. Count 9. track No. 48/2011 is a number of professional groups, their composition and their orders, determined by a project management. On April 16, 2014, groups 1 and 2 were appointed to serve in May 2014. Project 1 was designed to assess the activation and habitats in terms of nature, culture, landscapes, and so forth. Project 2 was to assess activation options and land areas in terms of alternatives to energy efficiency, such as tourism, outdoors, and agriculture. A group 3 was appointed on July 9, 2015, and in August 2015, they began to operate. Project 3 was to assess the activation and geographic systems in terms of their impact on society, such as impact on social well-being, social diversity, communication, solidarity, function, and other factors that the group considered desirable to evaluate. A group 4 was appointed on October 12, 2015. Project 4 was to deal with activation initiatives and regions in terms of economic factors, mainly from the influence of individual initiatives or groups of national activation initiatives. A project administration so proposed that it began a three - week consultation process in which a total of 18 reports from 15 sources, institutions, public and stakeholders were received. As a result of the review process, the project management carried out its proposal for the classification of activation options. Then began a series of 12 weeks' consultations that lasted from May 11, 2016 to August 3, 2016. There was a 69 - year - old project management involving a total of 44 sources. Again, I find it important to point out that we generals who are now being treated with the matter bear in mind that not one source of delinquency is a source of conflicting opinions, protection, and usefulness. That's why it's a control device that's so important to a frame plan. It well describes the compromise process that involves a frame plan. I think it's important that we keep that in mind about the case. The final suggestions for a project administration were received on August 26th. It presents a total of 82 activation options. The proposals of the project management are unanimous, with the exception of the activation option Hallow wound activation at Atley, where two task force agents returned a special mask. I have now, having agreed with the Minister of Energy as expected by the law, review the proposals of a project administration, and submit them to the General Assembly. I present the proposals unchanged, as expressed by the Project Management Board for the Research and Subsidies of the Generals. According to a report of the work programme, environmental assessments were carried out along with the development of the programme. I do not review logical support for the classification of each priming option. Rather, I refer to a report of project management, specifically chapter 9.3 on page 20. 165. It has been noted that in the classification of activation mechanisms, only two field groups, i.e. the field groups 1 and 2, but the results of the field groups 3 and 4 have had little effect on the classification of the individual activations and therefore the contribution of the social and economic effects of the inducers was less than desirable. I'd like to step out of this in particular. In terms of economic and social factors, it is very important to understand where the framework programme is in the decision-making process for energy protection or efficiency. A Framework Programme is an interest assessment of areas with potential energy options to use and which areas should be protected. In terms of economic factors, they can be divided into two groups, either the founding costs or the cost of the economic construction of the individual inducers, and the national impact of individual energy. As for the first factor, improvement in methodology from the 2nd step of the frame plan has been made, where professional group 4 was designed to estimate the target and assess the cost of activation. However, at the beginning of Project 3 project management, the project administration decided to request that the Power Institute perform the work done under the field of interest group 4 in stage 2, making it an estimate of the projection of the Agency's legal role. In this connection it is worth considering that energy companies are working in a competitive market, and therefore information on the expected cost and efficiency of individual sources is not generally made public during the preparation period of the work products. In January 2014, an energy agency was moved by the Institute of Activity to update costs from the making of the last frame plan and to bring the cost to the price. The energy companies were then asked to classify their activation initiatives, and the same did the Power Institute for the activation initiatives that the Agency itself had proposed for Project Three Programmes. There were seven categories of costs defined, and most of the priming initiatives were found in 31⁄25. Thus, this method has become highly developed and established. In terms of the national impact, there are factors that make it difficult to include them at the level of a government decision-making program for protection or use of energy. A group 4, which served in stage 3, drew out the following factors that show that this can be complex at the scene of the frame plan: First of all, there is no information available on the preparation of a policy framework of an estimate of energy prices. Without such precursors, the assessment of national efficiency of individual initiatives is simply impossible. The fact is, since the vast majority of activation projects are linked to individual energy agreements, such data are not available. Of course, this has to do with other uncertainty as to what can be determined at this point. A fine example of this is the current discussion of Hellishelic activation status where performance has been less than originally indicated. Would it have been possible to appreciate the economic impact there? We now know that the conclusion is different from the one first set in motion. Second, the basis for a Framework Assessment of a Foreign Relation for the Protection and Prevention of Lands. There is no general basis for economic evaluation for what can be called unsurpassed nature's services, i.e. The natural beauty and the natural phenomena. What is the value of money? What is the value of Aldage Falls, or our modern language, in times where the world's uninhabited areas are dwindling? However, this methodology has been carried out in recent years, so it is possible in the future to help determine how much energy protection or efficiency can be used. Third, circumstances differ in time and bed. It can be linked to a general public employment situation in society, potential based conditions, energy security reasons and such. The accompanying schedule is not covered by law on the above factors. Fourth, project management does not have permission to discuss electrical lines to/from individual activation options that can have a significant impact on national economic benefits. In view of this analysis professional 4 itself, it was not to be a basis for ordering priming options as discussed in the 3rd-point frame program according to their national financial contributions. It is the same as the second phase. However, it has been noted that there may be a possibility of implementing costs/dissolvement later in the process following the implementation of the framework programme and that this may be related to work in evaluating the environmental impact of action and that it makes me feel very worthy of working. Methodology for ordering activation options after their social impact is even less effective. According to this, I believe it is important that, in the next stage of a frame plan, which begins later in this month, you will need to focus on developing an even more detailed methodology and work on professional groups 3 and 4. As a result, I want to reiterate the importance of a framework for government decision-making of great interests and issues that have caused great conflict in our community. You see, it is important not to lose sight because a structured program is designed to provide key lines to the government's plans for energy protection and efficiency. So it should provide a complete picture, but it should not go to the point of having too detailed analysis of smaller issues. Finally, the proposal I recommend here is a powerful energy efficiency plan at the same time as it is an ambitious protection plan. It is also safe and does not suggest the classification of many new energy advantages in addition to what lay ahead in the 2nd phase. This 3rd phase suggests that about 660 MWs are added to the colony class. The 93 MW funded by Indomination and the Allied has moved into the energy generation and on the 670 MW approved in a 2nd class. Thus, stages 2 and 3 involve high potential for energy growth, more than 1,400 MW. As a comparison, I would like to point out that the installed power of all the current fortresses in Iceland is 2500 MW. At the same time, many important areas will be provided for protection. Thus, there is a high balance in these guidelines between protection and innovations if it is measured in energy units, while a reservation and a colony are approximately equal in these proposals. It is such a joy to know that while there is a powerful energy efficiency strategy, this protection plan is also closely compatible with governments' programs for working for special protection in the Middle East. Thus, the suggestion is a compromise to seek balance, once again, between views of protection and innovation. In addition, there is a large waiting group in which you can find priming options suggested to be considered better in the future. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I think it's good that we take careful steps for the future use of land, change of interest, and we don't know what the situation will be in five or ten years. Sustainable innovations and the needs of future generations need to be in the foreground. I strongly suggest that the General agree with the proposal and suggest that the proposal be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to, before I have an answer and a discussion, to state that when this document was delivered from the previous government, I was on the front of the document and, as a matter of fact, the Congress of the Agency, because I feel that this document is ruined. V.E.G. A minister spent a considerable amount of time covering over the hazy tactics that the project management and the professional group have handled on this matter all along and was somehow excusing that this issue had not been legalized. I'd like to ask the minister of last year's answer: It's clear now that, under law, the task management will consider the activation initiative referred to by the Power Institute. Where does it get better than the task management could not do as she did?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u50	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator had not supported the minister of his class, when my predecessor, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, suggested that. I'm really sorry to hear that. There's a law here. Perhaps it was a determined will of what? A senator not to listen to the story, I completely considered how a project administration will conduct the project, how it appoints its work groups, and how it brings out what its groups are looking at. I have a suspicion. A senator is feeling that the economic impact has not been evaluated, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u51	It'll come later...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u52	It was examined, as I passed over. I'd like to ask you what. Senator what might be the power. A senator does not feel that a project management has been investigated. It would have been nice to get it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u53	A respectable president. I think it was at a quarter or four-quarters that the project management didn't consider, even if she should consider them under the advice of the Institute of Energy. I ask, "Where is the improvement due to the failure of the project management to examine all benefits? "
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u54	I'm sorry, I can't do that. The senator repeats the question?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u55	Was it corrected that the project manager chose not to consider all the benefits it should do under law? I can't be any clearer than...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u56	It's perfectly clear. I think we're gonna do what. A senator has a different understanding of these laws, if any. A senator understands that a project management has not done the law. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u57	The president would like to direct them to members of the council and to those who are here in reply and who object that the conversation is over the General Meeting's symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u58	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. She actually made it clear that the social impact had not yet been completed, that methodology was not sufficiently developed so that the social impact of these projects would not be compromised. However, a specific project is proposed here, and this can be reasoned, e.g. When it comes to the waiting stage, we will have to wait for certain data to be missing, but in the case of the implementation of a group with a social impact unexploited, we will have to pause and wonder what it means, because in reality, the General will not again make decisions on this matter. When implementation or activation has been implemented into a innovation class, the environmental assessment is certainly under attack, not a decision, but an instrument to evaluate environmental impacts, but, in which case, we have actually made a decision that will not be reversed, as long as it is willing to be carried out. I give specific testimony to the three - year - long men who have been very busy lately. There is a new employment development company, Skylp, which gathers young people in this area who provide different social development from those that are shaped by new activations in Þjótur, another future that is more based on innovation, tourism. A group of young people, not as far as I understand, are just a group of young people, a total of 110, who, under a challenge to the government to pay more attention to this matter and to study the social effects more fully. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. She rightly overlooked the importance of making the most of peace. That means everyone has to yield something when we agree to an object like a frame plan. Nevertheless, it is known that social impacts are not well explored, and we perceive the currents in the discussion to form in the closer environment in this area. [[The president calls.]] How's the top count? Minister to respond to the discussion in the surroundings of the wound?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Unlike what happened earlier, we have the same understanding of what I was saying. A senator. This social impact has not been fully explored. Now that there are differences in understanding, some say: Well, if they had been examined, the conclusion would certainly have been that way. Then it can be totally backwards. Depending on the individual's social impact, he or she provides for himself and his environment. I mean, about these things. A senator mentioned, to form Gypsy and the members who want protection in Þjótur because of their social impact, because it destroys the social vision they have for the area, it is true that it is difficult to weigh the exact vision of the social vision. I don't know if I understand what this means. I propose this in the Senate treatment. This will be a review of applications, and it will probably be a lot of visits on the environment and transport committees where members of the Parliament can assess whether they feel that evidence is so important that they want something to look at. Conditions change in time and space. The emphasis we put at the time varies. I understand that person as well as anyone. A senator mentioned earlier, I understand that their view of society does not include those in Þjótur. I also understand the other specimen, which speaks of the German as the largest of Iceland's bonds, so to speak, and that it is socially practical in the process of activating there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. We've come to a very important tip. The society has changed very much since its attack in the first development of a major industry, to the highest degree. There's been talk of a minister. There are other employment opportunities now that impress young people in this country, the job opportunities that make up the company I mentioned earlier, Skylp, has been putting ourselves in the fields of tourism, innovation and intelligence, career opportunities that do not necessarily require large amounts of electricity but demand that we keep on the valuables of our country. So I stress that this aspect, the social effect, will be examined in detail at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'd like to use the time, I could talk about it for a long time, in my second answer to ask the highest. Minister for other things. This, of course, is the very influence that is directly involved in the work field. Minister for the protection of demographic diversity. Then I am witnessing to the wild salmon population, but the effect of jaculation on the wild salmon population has not been fully explored. As we all know, I understand, at least I believe this is the case, still at the level of very old environmental assessment for these inducers or parts of these inducers. It has been reported on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources including because wild salmon has not been taken into account. Again, I come to the same question. As members of Congress, we need to take sides in putting priming options in a protection party, a waiting party, and a colony. The novelty party is really the only one that can be called irreversible. We therefore make decisions regarding the biodiversity of the Icelandic biomechanical system, i.e. the wild salmon, which has been pointed out to be uncluttered the effect of activation on the wild salmon population. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she consider this to be the effect of a full - time inquiry according to the proposal presented here? If not, what will it do to make sure that we protect this institution, which is not only environmentally important, in which, of course, is also of great economic value? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u61	A respectable president. Regarding salmon and that discussion, I have attended many meetings, as well as a senator. The employment committee when this case was there, since we've done well with the wild salmon population in Þjórða. I remember many meetings and have also discussed this exact point with the current project manager, Stefán Gíslason. I'm told that at this point in the matter, as it were, it is not a framework program to look at this matter, exactly what the benefits are in the position and solutions for the individual activations, and that salmon mollusks, the rafts, and more are at home in the environmental assessment. I'll just take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u62	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment and resource secretary review of this matter. There are some things in her language that you cannot but agree with, even though that may not always be all. Here we will discuss a framework plan or a plan for the protection and efficiency of land areas. I find it extremely important to bear in mind when we discuss these issues that the framework is a tool, a tool we created at the time to achieve specific goals, a very high goal; to try to make peace with the dynamics of Iceland. This certainly is a lofty goal, and it will never be a time for total peace. V.E.G. A minister made it a personal point to consider certain aspects of this tool that we have made for ourselves. It's just a man's job. We need to take a closer look at how we value national practicality, take a closer look at things. I wondered, " Is that on my own? Is there any basis for me to stop for a moment? ' Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, correctly introduced the change in the environment, e.g. The lower part of the Tub. If we look forward to going to work soon, we will be doing some work to improve our evaluation of factors that we cannot assess enough today, I wonder what is on. V.E.G. A minister made it appear that there were over 1,400 megawatts in a novelty class. There are two Enquirers over and over. Do we need electricity? Do we need the electricity from two Meriad Welfare's Id? Someone may feel that way. But what are we going to use this electricity for? I've missed a government plan, because I think that's the right way. First we think: Do we need electricity? What do we need the electricity for? What are we going to use it for? Then we wonder how we can access the electricity that we really are going to use. We may need electricity, and I don't think we can do it in any way, but how are we going to do it? That's very important here. Are we applying for a unique industry, or are we operating for transport energy exchange? Are we operating for green energy? What are we going to do with this electricity? I kind of feel like we're at the point where we're supposed to stop for a while. V.E.G. Environmental and resource secretary has received a report on the state of the environment. I rejoiced with the tone contained in that report. There I feel that the new tone of view is to look at the situation realistically and what the project is. Where do we need to go to reach the goals we have set for ourselves in climate? I've talked about it here more than once, and more than twice, that we need to start looking at all these matters. We need to watch what we're going to activate, if we're going to activate. We need to watch how we use our energy. In it comes a energy efficiency programme. We need to watch how we're going to get the electricity that we're working on or making up. Inside, there's a line-up plan. And we need to have a chief objective of all of this together the climate goals that we have personally attended and that we should have a decent view of doing better than our goals allow. V.E.G. The Environment Minister spoke of this as a powerful energy efficiency strategy. As a precautionary measure, the highest spoke. A minister also said that the plan would be a double plan, inside it would also be a great protection. I can totally agree with that. A Ramma plan must eventually become a compromise. If one is going to look overall at what to do with all the resources that can be used to activate, it must eventually become some sort of compromise. But on what basis is that compromise made? Is it done on the grounds that time is limited? That we're burning up with something? Do we have to jump? There is no way to draw feathers over the re-enactment of this structure in a kind of hand race. Quick treatment was added, such as the highest. A minister went over, where the project management and the professional group were directly required to cut out extra time so that they could take care of certain tests and surveys and give up. In some ways it could be understood at the former highest level. Environment Minister that it was necessary to provide a framework for fulfilling the legal obligation. Not now. This doesn't have to agree tomorrow. We have time to step gently to the ground and look at this. And I think it's a little bad that what was worked in a particular time pressure during the last term is put in here when we have plenty of time to take a closer look. Social impact, we've studied it. In answer to the highest. Minister on the counter to what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, I did not fully understand how we save the wild salmon, whether it is possible and by what means, linked to a work permit. It must be the basic precept for knowing how it affects the wild salmon population. If there is something unsearched in it, it must be one of the reasons why the priming is not fully studied. It is not fully defined for which counter measures can be taken and if they are effective. It's like a recipe for what's supposed to be a waiting party. I think we should look into this. I'm gonna let myself in on this thing, just to be in the big lines. We need to look at this whole thing. What are we looking for, what are we going to do with it, how are we going to use it, and how are we going to get it into shapes and place where it will be made available? So I've thought about recent discussions here in this sermon and in the reading of Senate papers and topic here whether it's time to set up some sort of committee across a group that looks at these matters completely holistically, since all the members of Congress are involved and we aren't each in his own corner to contribute something or fight for something and where all these plans speak together. I think it's a key today that we look at this whole thing, look at the whole thing, but don't start with it. As noted above, neovascularisation and activation are irreversible. To say that, I'm going to say that I understand the problem and the major task. The secretary of the environment is confronted, having to accept a different viewpoint, and as I entered it, some of them eventually must contradict it. But I think that in order to get it done best, we're supposed to make a frame plan, the tool we're using, the best design, so it's going to be the thing that's gonna make you feel better about it. I remind you that according to the legal code, the Environment and Resource Minister should submit a framework every four years. [[The president calls.]] However, there is nothing in the law that says that it needs to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u63	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up with a quick answer to try to cope with a few things that were presented in a case at any point. Senator. I thank you for the talk and put it into this important subject. That's right, frame plan. It's an instrument, man's work. As I stressed, we will continue to develop the tool if we want to. I believe that to the extent that we are working on a frame plan, but we are not here, as before, to carve out a unique activation option. It was something that the whole world of Congress didn't realize was not going to work out. Social impact, economic impact. We need to take a closer look. What's the hurry? asks why. Senator. Well, according to the law, the Environment and Resource Minister should submit a synonym for the protection and efficiency of land areas every four years. That's what I'm doing. I'm in no hurry. I feel that the General may take his time to look out for the situation. There's nothing but good to say. But this is simply the legal obligation that is placed on my shoulders, and I followed it, and I did so by suggesting a future project management, for it was a professional evaluation. Just one last thing. Hv. A senator's concern is that I'm being heard, of all the methods of activation that are used. This is not necessarily so that it will be activated. Environmental assessment performed on e.g. After arriving there. There may not be an entirely direct relationship between each other. And then I'd like to say, too, that the waiting party is very large. Indeed, there is reason to examine and meditate on some of the priming factors. [[The president calls.]] It will continue to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment Minister the counter. I think this is not how we disagree with each other, especially when it comes to seeing what is really happening, what the project is. What I was wondering here about putting forth now this motion unchanged, as I came into my case, that a special hurry-up to work during the last term. The director of the project management has questioned that approach was in the spirit of the law. This has directly conflicted with the laws on a frame plan to throw in activation options that need to be examined quickly. Part of the activation option is just what we're looking at here in the lower part of Turbulence. V.E.G. Environment Minister admits that it is not fully understood how to ensure that wild salmon populations are not affected in the river. If it is not fully understood how to ensure that priming has an effect on wild salmon breeds, then I think it's a little out of the picture if possible. I think this, like I came in earlier, is the recipe that such advantages should be held in a waiting category. It simply needs more research than simply counting on finding a solution, whatever it becomes, when it comes to having a contract. I realize that only if there's any chance that we can go to a novelty party then the next spring has not been activated. Nevertheless, it is the political policy of the Generals and the government on where to be activated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u65	A respectable president. Perhaps more or less policies on where to activate, but not where to activate. Or where to continue to explore the sensitivity of activation, if you can say so, for as I mentioned: although activation into the Neo-class will be investigated and the environmental assessment will be carried out, for example. There's something that the project manager has been telling us about, e.g. the flip-offs and the salmon ladders, you can't really find out how it's going to work until you have it on your desk how the activations should exactly look and how those who have these activation plans, and are able to take this into account, since we're talking about the salmon strain. When possible, you can decide whether your plans are inadequate or not. This is done at the level of environmental assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u66	A respectable president. To see how all of this is going to look when the activation is on the drawing table, and the engine started, I feel a little bit small, as I plan to see how the brake equipment in a car will work after it's started and into the street. I have to say, I'm not particularly concerned that there will be some kind of guarantee that everything will be all right there. Otherwise, I just want to celebrate the highest words. Environment Minister on the fact that a colony is only allowed, i.e. that we have organized where we will further examine the practical or the right to use. I'm glad you're here. Over the years, we have seen that governments watch this so that activation is in a race of green light. So I welcome these words, Minister. I look forward to getting a frame plan on such a environment and transport committee and hoping that we'll be able to cooperate there. Because this is a matter that needs careful consideration, just as I came to this point. I'm just going to say again and make my final statement that I think is necessary to watch the whole thing on all these matters. Because it's all connected to together; energy efficiency, energy transport, activation, our green energy and how we're going to live up to our climate targets. I declare myself ready to work together and work on the perspective that nature enjoys the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u67	A respectable president. We will now address a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. The matter was very much discussed during the last assembly. Well, I guess. This is a big matter that we need to consider at the council. I hope that there is a measure of peace now in the discussion. I feel that now the presentation of the case is a bit of a challenge and testing a frame plan, whether it meets the pressures of becoming a tool that we can use, and taking a notice of in the conference hall and in the council committees, and trying to finish the matter. I feel like the highest. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé senator thought we had to create one of the systems still for selection of activation options. Well, it can be, then, if this system doesn't give up forever. But let us see if the discussion is not properly adjusted. Then we'll go into an environment and transport committee where we're going to discuss the matter. Of course, there are some things we don't accept here. As we have seen, this is an equal compromise. It is very important to arrange the priming options and to consider the benefits of continuing. Of course, it is quite clear that environmental assessments of activities need to be made regarding the benefits of innovation. For example, a study of the salmon is made there. At this point, it is not necessary to investigate salmon. It comes in the environmental assessment of progress. In contrast, it was one of the biggest cases during the last term to discuss these issues and research in the salmon. It was noted that few salmon stocks are as much studied as the salmon population in Þjórði. The experts who visited the committee said that there was nothing more to say about it. Of course, there is always some uncertainty, and you can criticize things indefinitely. That won't be much added. However, the environmental assessment will be carried out. I have a little interest in the windmill groves mentioned in this piece of paper. In fact, the Law on Framework does not expect the Committee to deal with wind energy, but it is referred to as a calmness of mind and a dramatization, and it speaks of putting Burdund into a waiting party. It surprises me a little bit. It is, in fact, on the edge of the highlands, in a very special place, but I feel it and has always been found as a natural spirit that this location has been specially selected at its time, with the fall of the cage and in the activation area. There must be another consideration. I'm also amazed that there's no use here for the electricity they're talking about being made or that they have the potential to produce up to 1,400 MW. I can't imagine that these continuum transfunctioners are about to begin completely in the near future. I think it could take a decade or two to get this thing started. I think everybody sees that there's not going to be roomwork here at every corner, but I think that would be very unnatural. In fact, there are few water sources here. I would have liked to see more. There's seven of them. Ten's in the high-heat area. There are eight of them on Smokeynes. I think that if we, who were discussing energy exchange at the council a few days ago, we're going to hurt something by really wanting to take on the projects that are waiting for us, energy exchange for the fish farms, the car fleet, and the entire professional life, it's clear that we need more electricity. We need electricity. There are a lot of opportunities to wait and use a five- and-and-a-half MW. Minor industrialized song, which I think is very desirable for us Icelanders to look at. In order for such companies, even high-tech companies, to come to the country, and to use this energy, it is very important that we have organized groups, assets, and can have them on track when it comes to someone wanting to come and activate. If we're not ready to sell the electricity, no one's going to want it. We need to get the opportunity ready, have already checked to see if it can be activated. This document we are working on right now is just the first step in considering whether the activation option is valid. But there is a long way in which these energy efficiency - efficient assets become more efficient. I'm not going to go over the other classes in particular. We'll be able to discern something about them. I think it's a big deal for us that we're gonna be able to land something in this case, and I'll be happy to try and finish it, even if we seem to be all the different people in this suit. The United Nations climate standards have been referred to here. What is better in this than to promote increased renewable energy production? I think it's very important. I say for myself, I look forward to dealing with the work on the environment and transport committee. We have a controlling device to make a decision in the future. I think the Minister's proposal is a good start on the road we want to go. The Senate has the authority to consider these benefits and assess them and to make adjustments. I'm stressing that we will do so in the reconciliation that pleases this institution. I think it's the spirit at the House of Congress that's not the same extreme heat as it was here last time. We are to make progress toward a joint decision in the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u68	A respectable president. We're discussing a frame plan once more here at the council. There's a big misunderstanding about a frame plan when people talk about it like some piece of peace, like it was a deal and they'll be happy. Of course, that's not the case at all. Since the introduction of a frame plan, it has been dissatisfaction. There's been a debate about practices, methodologies, etc. Since then, politicians have sometimes been messing with it, moving in for activation, etc. This does not necessarily increase credibility, at least not in some people. To me, it's important that we ask ourselves: " Is this methodology, the paper we're working with here, it's off the board? Isn't it time to do something else? I think so. I think the experimental activity that's been on a frame plan is a fact. There will be no reconciliation, as the work has been done so far. I also wondered, " Why is there a frame plan into the council? ' I don't think it'll meet the requirements that the General shall make for the council opinion and record that come in here with us. As far as I can see, and was now trying to ask the highest. Minister to today, but that this framework is not under law. It is legal that the task management should review the energy options referred to by the Power Institute. Of 82 benefits, only 27 are discussed. I was trying to ask the Minister earlier where the recovery was going. There was no answer. The task management does other things - or may not do certain things. For example, the reference work of the Power Agency speaks highly of a group 3 that discussed social effects. The task management, however, prefers not to take into account them in their coverage or decision making. We have come to the point where we need to ask ourselves, " Do I really need to start a new process? ' To the Norwegian again. We looked at the Norwegians when we started taking this bix all together. Now Norwegians are disappearing from using a frame plan, planning to adopt a different system there. In fact, if you're talking about playing small, you're going to lose your whole plan. There may be other laws that make it easier for them to go that way, e.g. Water tunes and things like that, I haven't had enough suspicions in it, so I'll tell you now, Mr. President. It is obvious that we need to review this case here at the council, since it has come in and since the Council felt that it was available. I don't think it's available here. I simply don't think it belongs here with us. Besides, I don't know any better than in the law to make a special assessment, taking into account social and economic factors. It has come to pass, and it was actually presented in the minister's speech here today, that it was not. Then you wonder: " How can a decision be reached if you do not consider all the factors that you should consider? How can this be arranged if you choose to push aside certain items? Is looking at the economic factors, e.g. If we were to develop some kind of activation that there can meet the needs of a Bountiard Plant, which is an investment for 100 billion, if I recall correctly, then we'll create 300 to400 jobs and stay within limits of pollution, and we don't need environmental assessment for an example? Is that not what we want? There's no such thing as energy for it. Because it was said that they didn't know what to do with the electricity. The lack of a 15◯25 MW to confirm all of this. Surely, then, we need to ask ourselves many questions about this subject. I'm here only going to interrupt the Power Agency's comments about this report or proposal. I have an overview of this because the report or comment of the Power Institute covers more than 100 pages. I'm going to let you know that this frame plan is shredded up. There are very good sources of logic missing, where there is no legal rights, etc. It's really not good that we're in that place talking about this important document, which it was definitely supposed to be, but it's that mine knows anything but important today. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to grab here on what's called a letter, which is about the Power Institute's comments on the final report of the project management. It says, by permission of the president: The Agency describes a special concern because it is clear that in the work of the project management, many very important factors have been clearly overlooked, such as Iceland's contribution to reducing the global carbon dioxide use of renewable energy sources, necessary energy security in Iceland, effects on society and economy, strengths for energy exchanges and development, and so on. When you start reading it more closely and peer into this project proposal, you really think it's all right. There is also nothing to look forward to every contribution from Iceland can produce renewable energy on a global scale, which is part of what Norwegians argue for with their changing proposals. They say: Our resources are to be used to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. We are also required to use them to promote economic and employment in Norway. We must use them to strengthen society and society in Norway. I'm going to allow myself, which may be surprising to no one here, to disappear only to my homeland, north of the province, where the task management somehow finds to the conclusion of putting the possible activations of Skavetir into a protective party. For us where it lives, it's a bit strange; not everyone, of course, I can't speak for everyone, for certainly there are many people in Skafund given a different opinion than I am at this point, I take it here. But if you begin to appreciate such a flier and a horse ride as the most valuable commercial creation in Skavetund, you are only throwing it away. There are other options available today and can be applied. I'm here to seize, with the permission of the President, into a review from the Power Institute. It says: The impact of priming on different valuables is that there seems to be some mental, irrational nature and lack of awareness of the potential effects. For example, the value of a horse ride in the valley of Tegafur is set down from 10 down to 3 because of the tax results of both. This rating does not appear in the report itself, but is present in the underlying data listed by the Power Institute. It does not reveal what causes this tremendous loss of value. The evidence is lacking to support why such a great degree of respect on these trips exists. Have they not wondered that perhaps it is just that way, as we have seen e.g. east and at other sites where the applied was applied, that it opens up new options for tourism? Is it not true to remember that in any of the evidence we've seen, there is some activation on four and a half stars on the Tripadvisor, five is the maximum, a great place for tourists to visit? I don't remember the name of this activation, but I read it yesterday. Then I just wanted to go on and grab down to the energy agency's writing: It is not always necessary for other surfaces to be examined, i.e. what a positive effect of activation may be, including for the factors on which professional groups 1 and 2 are involved, e.g. On a horse ride through the valley of Tegafur The national or national benefit of activation or protection is also lacking. So, that's what makes the most sense, I'd like to say, which is Power Institute, just tear it apart. It doesn't say that I know, a stone on a rock as far as the results of a project management are concerned. I'm sorry. I've wondered what it was. Perhaps it is a pressure from us that the project management makes a decision, perhaps it is timeless to do it better. There are things that you naturally wonder about. Because all of this is great and good people who work there. You wonder what makes this end in this way. I think it's time to wonder if we should simply call it a good name, say that the experiment that a frame plan has been overdue far too long has come to an end. We need to do something new that may lead to some reconciliation. I'm sorry, it's not cool, and it hasn't been.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u69	A respectable president. I thank you for the talk, although I now have to state that I generally disagree with each other. A senator and his understanding when he declares that he is found, if I understand correctly, a frame plan would be handy. I don't agree with that. I think this is a good control device to settle differences of viewpoints. With respect to what was observed in the papules. A senator in his speech and, like, I didn't hear well enough, answering myself about the Power Institute, and then a project administration, I'm afraid that there's a wrong understanding at what was right. A senator on law. It is the role of the Power Agency to determine when energy efficiency is sufficiently defined to attend a material discussion with a project manager. However, it is a project management that determines whether it deals with specific energy options. There's a little difference over there. Then a project management such as suggest that the benefits that have already been grouped and on the basis of the absence of new data and no reassessment criteria are available. In terms of energy need, and this is often heard in the discussion, and I'm sorry if I didn't notice clearly enough earlier, though I think it was perfectly clear, I just don't know if it would be right for a cause. The senator to talk about it, if people want to activate, there's enough room for it. 1,400 megawatts are being proposed here as a colony class. That's enough, isn't it? Who needs energy? What's the big deal with this energy? If we're talking about the public with no energy, it's on a whole different scale. [[The president calls.]] 90% of the energy we're working here in Iceland goes to the big industry, about 10% to the public. One minor inactivation can be built if someone needs 6, 7 megawatts. That's not the problem. But in all considered terms 1,400 megawatts are suggested here. That's enough, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u70	A respectable president. I just want to say thank you to the highest. So a minister for explaining that the minister thinks that the task management is entirely in control of its benefits. In other words, it does not have to deal with the advantages that the Power Institute has to discuss. If I've misunderstood, it's right here. But I may not be entirely sure that it is that simple. I would like to ask the minister if she believes that the Commission has fulfilled all the legal commitments it deserves, including, as I have understood these laws and men who are only more familiar than I in all of this, that the project management should take into account the economic and social factors. It's all legal, considering the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u71	As I studied in my historical history, it is the task management itself that sets standards for groups and groups of people. A project manager now completed his work certainly set standards for dealing with economic impacts as well as social impacts that I think were due to be involved. A senator is referring to him. It is clear to me that it would have been better if those groups had said as follows: "Yes, we can just sign all of this and come in with the results. Those groups themselves, the experts who were there, said, "It's not quite that simple. It's not our job, and we don't have data to deal with the economic impact of activation, we have, for example. no energy deal data, which would also be highly abnormal if they had, because it's a business deal between parties. So they also said: Economic influence. What is the value of nature? So let's just start to figure out how we develop methodology to put it on nature. [[The president calls.]] Let's do this in phase four. And that's the plan. But that methodology is not yet in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u72	A respectable president. I got carried away. I have to learn again this antipolitic bitch. I totally forgot there were two of them. However, in a target section of the Law No. 48/2011 says: The aim of these laws is to ensure that the use of regions for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments, which take into account nature's protection and cultural memory, economic efficiency and profitation of different resources and national values, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable progress. I understand that as the highest. To this end, a minister said that it would be sufficient to discuss what is discussed in pro group 1 and class 2 in order to achieve the goals of the law, i.e. to achieve this overall assessment. Am I correct in my understanding? All over the world it appears that there were 3, 4 professional groups and 3, professional group 3 produced, as indicated by the Power Institute a very good job that was not taken into account. [[The president calls.]] What, then, could this global assessment be done if it is not taken into consideration?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u73	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the inn. I have to say, though, that I feel that he is the full perspective on this fine tool that we have in our hands. But because he only entered the activation option in Skavegurd, and talked a lot about the defeat of this document, I have to say that I think the argument is supported by putting the IRS C and D in a protection party very good. There's been evidence that these are things that we remember forged, such as the permafrosts we have international responsibility. It's also talking about construction there that could destroy large eastern and West valleys from 870 to 1,400. Our job is to protect mines and nature as well. When we have something we have an international responsibility for, and when we see that we can, among other things, destroy historical memories from that time, I feel that we need to stop for a little while. I'd like to hear what I'm thinking. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u74	A respectable president. If I remember correctly about the talk about the Orrastos, which is just permafrost or what they call it, e.g. Design of activation has been particularly effective in protecting them. It is assumed, if I recall correctly, in the local community's main organization, that it is. No doubt there are cultural backgrounds that are remarkable there. We also know that we are constantly finding memories when we dig for a building. They are examined and given certain instructions. But this document does not consider what it means to protect and store these minas against, e.g. to make use of the energy available for job development in Skavetir. For the people. For the people who divide thousands. There's nothing to appreciate in this record, not even an attempt to do it. That's what's wrong with it. At some point in the previous frame program, it was assessed to reduce the value of these activates because the line layers were being covered. It was so long over an explosion, I think. It was not appreciated if the lines had gone the other way, down to the farm, and lived there for employment. Work on this is simply not good enough. That's why we're stuck with the plow not working. It's just my food. I'd like to state that I'm not sure all my colleagues share my opinion so that it's perfectly clear. True, we need to weigh what is being sacrificed. I'm not trying to demean it. But the other one must be appreciated too. Hv. A senator must have seen and learned that this is not done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u75	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with what. A senator that it is of utmost importance for these communities to have enough electricity to prepare and build up jobs. Then the mind will turn to what is called the base line. There's something that I really think we need to consider how we're going to settle down. Even so, we also need to be aware of whether we are sacrificing less certain cultural and natural mines that are irreversible. We must always go that way, make sure that we're working with humans and with nature. That was very good in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, we all have to cancel our demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u76	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. Of course, this should be done in the best way, evaluate interest, value of nature. Is this irreversible? What does it mean if something is irreversible? Does this mean that they should sacrifice all other interests? It's just not appreciated. It's not checked. I don't know what it's like. A senator can shape his view that the two qualities she mentioned should be protected when the other one has not been weighed back.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u77	V.E.G. President. It's been interesting to observe these discussions about framework so far. It is especially important to listen to those who seem to disagree or to approach matters from something completely different from you. It is very important in democratic society to approach matters that way. So I listened with a keen interest to a talk. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. The first thing that hit me was already a what. A senator asked if it was fully developed by a frame plan. What I didn't hear, however, or did not understand, the senator's case. A senator should leave? I think we can quite agree that this may not be the perfect process, just because we look at things from different viewpoints. But I've actually believed that we're here to something better, i.e. trying to approach the whole thing. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator if he wants to go back to old times, i.e. Just looking at each activation option separately, but do not try to put them in these three categories, as is being done in a frame plan. Or what other way does the senator feel is the best way to handle these matters? I don't think there's a chance that Iceland will ever be able to resist a policy. We need to find some way to approach these issues. If a frame plan doesn't work, then why? A senator, then, what does he suggest? How are we supposed to do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u78	A respectable president. That was a good question for me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] What will replace them? What I said before, and I say again, "I think it's all right." There's been an inconsistencies and argument over a frame plan is that I tell about day one; actually, that's not quite right with me, but for a very long time. It's been the worst in the last few years when it was a government. A senator supported and sat in, for example. began messing with the order, setting off here a very large ball. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] Stu, forgive me, didn't you? [[Up front.]] Well, I think you've been here ten years, Steinunn, sorry. But her party was at least in the government. I'm pulling it back. The important thing is that we've had a fight about this, and there's no peace with this document, it's just that way. I'm completely honest. I don't have a magic trick about what's to replace. I just can't see it's working. It may well be that the way the Norwegians are going now is better for us. I just haven't studied it well enough. They may be better off than we have more research, more policy development etc., this has not stopped being used. But we generals must also have the courage to acknowledge when things do not work out and have failed. Well, since 2009, when I came into the council, maybe it's my fault, it hasn't been cool about it. It's been going into a fire every time we've been talking about a frame plan. At the time, I now think it was the minister of the Mission that started this thing, if I remember correctly, Jón Sigurðsson probably, I always remember I had doubts that this could go because it was always clear, but we decided to give this chance, that there would be some conflict in this way. We can also see that the role of a project manager, who is not envious, these fine people who are in the project management, is not properly defined but in the law. It may well be possible to clean up these laws and make the environment much better and more efficient, than today, as shown in the data I referred to earlier, this is a subject of thought, a great deal of mental decisions that have to be made. I ask: Is it acceptable that people only depend on what kind of good people are put on this committee, how they think, that they sort of put these things down?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u79	V.E.G. President. It is not easy to bring up any tool that should work better than a frame plan, but it is just like all tools; it may not be available that are perfect, so it is suitable for everyone. At least I'm going to disagree. A senator still knows that I don't think it's the best tool we have at least right now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who spoke of whether it was enough to see that electricity was produced in a climate-friendly way, because of course it is important, I agree with it. But would it not also be necessary to have a plan for the energy to go into something that is also environmentally related and whether we must achieve such a complete approach to the subject, which, in turn, is in harmony with the climate and Paris conventions so that there is an entire bridge in what is being done by activation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u80	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator in that if we are to shoulder the responsibilities we have in the climate, we need to look at at at at least On two items. It is on the one hand to use the energy we have to control, the resources, and to direct it into the exact course of action. A senator mentioned, a work that is then environmental or efficient, and to reduce emissions in other areas without increasing it, without minimizing our goals and obligations. This is some process we should have, of course. In fact, I think for the last eight to ten years, this may have been a huge change in our community. I think that all of us are becoming much more aware of the costs of using our resources, creating jobs, creating valuable things, while not somehow putting our commitments off the table, so that we can stand firm and take pride in it. I think we're in that place. I think we found it already. It doesn't make me feel like I'm getting all messed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u81	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister here proposes a proposal for the resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme. As a minister mentioned, the work of frame planning is sensitive in many respects. In my opinion, this 320 - page report has been conducted professionally, at least to the extent that I have studied a little. This also applies to the work of project management and professional groups. It is important for us senators to remember that ideologies behind a frame plan include: minimizing a conflict of exceptional priming ideas. I'll agree with the highest. Environmental and resource minister, therefore, that we need to be looking for a framework to evaluate the professional possibility of protection and utilisation in terms of sustainability, including you are looking for key lines to the government's plans for the protection and use of energy ideas. V.E.G. The environmental and resource minister also considered the high challenge of global impact at the level for which a policy plan is to work. Here we should bear in mind that when it comes to such foods, it is necessary to include in the equation the value of not disrupting nature, the value of what is often called unnoring or unattracted nature. I think we all know that nature in its purest form without manpower becomes ever more valuable as such territories decline. It says exactly that, in accordance with the aim of the earlier legislation, the national and economic, environmental and social impact of innovations, including protection, should be evaluated in the national and energy efficiency values. I'd like to highlight the last words of this sentence, including protective care. The freshness of nature's protection is a great deal, and we are increasingly aware of it. Mr. President. I especially want to rejoice that the proposal presented here is in line with the government's policy of working for the protection of the central highlands. In the middle of Iceland, Europe is one of the biggest uninhabited areas. The safety and prices of the wild are increasing with rapid decline in the number of uninhabited areas around the world. So this is a rare, limited resource. Then there are three massive lakes in the middle of the country; the Lakes of the Shire, the river of Shiver and the Roft River are placed in a reservation, and hopefully they will be free. The proposal is also in good agreement with the government's policy on sustainable development in an Icelandic society adopted in 2002 and reviewed in 2010 that it should be stressed that a large, intervening globality will continue to be found in the uninhabited country of Iceland. However, further use of energy resources is not at all restricted by this schedule, since according to this plan, innovation is an element of some 1,400 megawatts. It is also good to remember that the annual need for commercial electricity is a very small number of megawatts, perhaps 7◯9. Besides, data sets and smaller companies don't need many megawatts to drive their jobs. And I repeat, colony class is 1,400 megawatts. It's like the highest. Environment and resource minister said before, there's no need, there's a situation here. Mr. President. Keep this in mind and also consider the right of future generations to decide what to do in these matters. I'd like to stop just because today, though, some members of the council were saying that we were talking about the children's spokesmen, that we should speak up and think about future generations. I believe with this framework we're expressing our minds on the right of future generations to decide what to do in these matters when we're completing a Senate resolution on a national protection and energy-efficiency programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u82	A respectable president. In view of last words, why? paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty would like to agree with me by saying that I would like to be a spokesman for the children in this matter like so many others. Here's a proposal for interpretation based on the results of project management and the Part 3 of the Framework Programme. There's no doubt that we have to have energy exchanges in this country, and we want to have energy exchanges in this country. The Paris convention in Iceland is a person walking out on Earth's warming area less than 2°C. If we are to contribute to this, we must reduce the use of fossil fuels substantially and replace renewable energy. That's where electrical energy plays its key role. But I'm not going to discuss some sort of activation option here today. I'm going to look at it in a larger context. As the situation is now, there is no shortage of electricity in this country, but we certainly have to plan for the future. The biggest problem we have to deal with today is the lack of transport capacity. We need to strengthen the electrical network to cope with fluctuations in electricity use more easily than currently. But there's another arm, and there's no discussion here. August 3rd. conducted national protection comments on the final report of the project management, i.e. the report, which, in its final form, was proposed for this synonym. I would like to quote these comments in part, especially those that turn to so-called precautions and high - temperature areas, by permission of the president: The Universal Declaration contains 27 principles designed to support sustainable development worldwide. This includes precautions. It says that in cases where there is scientific uncertainty about whether activity or policy could harm the public or the environment and nature, the burden of evidence should be placed in those responsible for the specific functions or policies. In other words, it means that it does not necessarily prove that nature is being harmed. Rather, it is to be found at the time of scientific uncertainty. The rule of caution has now been adopted in Icelandic legislation by an approved nature protection law, No. 60/2013.◯ This passage fits in perfectly with the words as they speak. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé had earlier, and others, indeed, about wild salmon and worries he had about his fate. I'll continue with my quote, with President's permission: The precaution is especially relevant when it comes to the framework plan, with high scientific uncertainty about the impact of both hydropower workers (particularly in earth's lakes) and the eco-engineers on the environment and society. ... There is wide uncertainty about the production capacity and the life span of the geothermalians and their response to management stress. All the new high-heat systems intended to be used in the sense that, by means of the current efficiency, the resource steam sources are being used. This is widely accepted among scientists. ... It is evident that in general the use of aquifers in high - temperature areas is far from meeting the conditions for sustainable development when there is a high and stable fluid uptake from the earth, with only about half a century in the end. There is also the ability of research to assess the efficiency of high heat areas, most of which are unique on a global scale in shape and shape, to significantly disrupt their character and drills, and to cause irreversible environmental impacts. There is also great uncertainty about the health effects of geologists. The pollution of steam and their falling water is not just sulfur dioxide but various toxins, such as Arsen and kadmium. These subjects have been given little attention in Icelandic discussions and have answered that some of them are in unusually small amounts here. However, it should be kept in mind that these materials are present, that they are lipophilic, and that soon they will accumulate if there are hundreds of seconds. In view of last weekend's news, it is clear that health may be compromised. There is no need to debate the fact that two thirds of the Icelanders live on the southwest corner of the country, where there is a report of sulphur pollution, mentioned earlier. So I say, let us all put aside the plans for this kind of fortress. For example, look to wind. Two wind - power zones, on the other hand, are defined in a controlled synonym and a cohesion plant. The former is a energy pusher class, the waiting class. I'm not going to talk to you about these winds of wind that are such, in which I lack knowledge, but I'd like to describe the overall policy of these issues. We need to establish a policy on where we want to put up a wind current, how large they are, how big the windmills are to be, what the show game should be, etc. Besides, I can't help bringing up the tide workers. Their investigations are short-lived, and I think there is a reason to give them more attention. A respectable president. It is difficult to predict the future, especially about the future. Technologies are high in electricity and electricity use. We know that light bulbs and various electronic devices use much less electricity than they used to. Perhaps the small number of activations, perhaps electrical tanks that can be loaded when the electrical systems are low to use during periods of stress. But whatever the future may hold, it is clear that in all our plans and actions, we must let the nature and health of the people of this land enjoy the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u83	Madam President. Just a word or two. The last senator on the Earth heat. I heard it. I think it's overhistoric that geologic scientists generally agree that agriculture in the earth's high - temperature regions is insurmountable. There are several hundred geographers in Iceland, and there are certainly differences of opinions, but there are much smaller things that consider high - temperature areas or their development necessary to be self-sustained because it's about research, of how to activate. You can look at the mistakes that were made on Hellishe activation. It was all too fast for the activation because men were not seen in the structure and economic hope there. It is this way in high - temperature waters that all of them are on fire. In the long run, we'll have a new shot. It happened on Smokeynes in 1967, it happened in Henglin, 1999, it happened in the Crucesa in the year of the Cruces Fires, it's all renovations. The monsters that are under ice, this is all over the heat supply. So let us be very careful about dealing with high - temperature areas in this way. With regard to pollution, it is volcanic eruptions that surface in all volcanic eruptions; it rises in every high - temperature area of the country. They look into groundwater anyway. What man tries to do, but he may not have done on sufficient terms, he lacks technology to do so, is bind these gases and pump water into the soil. This helps to prevent unpleasant pollution or contamination that threatens health by injecting e.g. sulfur dioxide dissolved in water, along with falling water into the earthwaters. In fact, that is part of the lesson. I'd like to be very careful about making claims or amassing the damage caused by the geothermals. But on some aspects of the wind, I agree with the last speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u84	Thank you. Senator opposed. I may have gone over my case earlier. The other day, however, there was a fact that a person died on Smokejanes. That is dangerous material. I can't quite figure out how far we've gotten in them all. The Senator speaks of liberation. I'm not a geological scientist, so much is certain, but as a player, I was aware of all that trouble and all the trouble that has followed these activations at the site of Smokejanes, and, in fact, beyond. For me as a player, all of this is by permission of the president, not to say anything more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u85	Madam President. Today, there are several high - temperature intensifications in the country. I don't want to mean that I've been a lot of trouble on the road, except for what happened in the Earth account and causing problems that were not a type of person. On Smokeynes, I don't want to mean there's been any trouble. We cannot take this isolated incident in which there was a tragic death disaster. There was a drill next to another, a leak between the drilling hole, and there is, of course, a unique case. The only geothermal activation where there's really been trouble is Hellishe activation. Black angel's activation has been successful, and the Garden of Resource has demonstrated how far we can go. So, in my view, the problems of geo-gradants are raised, only to a small degree, they are real. Of course, we deal with that problem very clearly and clearly. On the other hand, modern science has proved to be a well - known science in Iceland. I don't think if people had listened to the best hors d'you know, what happened on Hellishkim wouldn't have been a fact. It is now being saved by leading steam from nearby drilling sites that will not be built up there, and it is only good and blessed because the lesson is: There must be step-by-step activation and ensure that the environmental impact of these activates is minimal. This is not the case, although it may in itself be complex scientific.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u86	I don't know, it's the least of all that I can tell you that I think I am and what I do. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is in effect agreed that nature and the people who live here should enjoy the doubt. The Senator speaks of a single case and, yes, it was a unique case that led to a tragic death. The Senator also mentioned Hellishic activation. That is exactly what happens when people fail to listen to warnings from scientists, get over their heads, as I might have done in my language. However, I am very happy that the Senator agrees with me about the wind power plants and that we should look more at them. I have a subtle suspicion that he is a bit of a cathartic too. [[Up front.]] Yes, isn't it? Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u87	Madam President. There are many jokes in the air when it comes to a frame plan. We can likely agree that she is late for the entire number of years. Then I mean, not in her terms, but in the prime story. But I think it's useful, and I don't agree with it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and believe this to be a growing and useful process, a process of decision-making that cannot be accomplished entirely without this convention. This is where professionals come in, and fortunately the council will do something other than determine the future of each individual activation as it was in the old days if we put it that way. We cannot look to the Norwegians and say, "Now let's do what they do, because they did exactly this, they made a frame plan. They've already activated 283/430 units. You can do so by taking into account some of the frame plan. There must be something we can look to. They are now predicting other things because the land is fully activated. It has been completed what can be activated by water activation. There are no geothermals. Today, humans are looking to wind and other such costs. Then you go in a different gear, go differently than you do in a frame plan. Of course, these three groups are the beginning of a solution and a solidarity. Of course, the use of fossils and hydropowers in Iceland will not be satisfied, as is the cooling system. In all major categories of natural activity, nature and nature protection are weighed. People won't like it. That's why we have democratic means of making decisions. That will be the ones who will survive. Well, that's about as simple as that. These three groups that have been defined, what is the harvest now? This is what has been observed here at 1,400 megawatts. 2,500,2600, we've activated. This means that the upper limit of energy production in Iceland is about 4,000 megawatts. It may well be that a part of the industry, or energy - consuming industry, disappears. Well, it's going to get a lot of force out there. And when you look this way, based on the size of society, we're pretty rich. Let's just look to the Norwegians with their 28s. Canvas. I think the colony has become a conversational group. Inspection tools, assessment tools. The Guardian Party. There are good results, and those of us who are a palace under nature protection are quite satisfied with many things there or most of them. The waiting party. There, however, we feel that there is much unacceptable use within the category. But now it's for inspection, for the sake of data collections, etc. There's not much more to say about him. In all this information about innovation programmes, the key concept is sustainableity. These three factors that I'm not going to trace, social, natural, and economic, all of them certainly need to be underneath. These terms have been added to such terms as practicality, profit, national interest, and so forth. Of course, these terms and what they include, the work is for a structure, the work of these four professional groups and the project management. And that's going to be the fourth stage. Let's see where this has come from. The secretary of the environment went over. A team 1 and 2 evaluate the national value and effect of activation on nature and environment, from which it has come. From our sustainable mind, we are actually working primarily with one thing. Is that acceptable? I ask. A group 3 to consider an impact on society did not change its order. It's obviously not acceptable if we're going to stick to the sustainable concept. If it lacks methodology, we either need to find it or make it. The question is always this when it comes to society: Is the community being talked about? Is this about the entire Icelandic community? In that case: Which means more? Today, from 110 young people and young people are considered to be involved in the Impulsion process. The message's clear. They think it's automatic. Do we, then, take this into account or ignore it? Of course, there are differences of opinion, such as the Supreme Court. Environment Minister pointed out, is always there. So how do we try to assess the social effects of the fortress if we merely look at views that there are differences without trying to determine the social effects, whether they are positive, negative, or neutral? A group 4 was to assess national ideals and practicality. He couldn't figure out what to do, so the economic factor in sustainable development is just outside. If you draw all of this together, there is no lack of food, so that is not done. I can't see it's properly tore up. Besides, I can't see that we can go on and take care of it this spring like it's okay. It's not okay. V.E.G. Environment Minister called a framework of the energy efficiency programme. She's not. It's an energy-making program. The need for energy is far better defined. I want to point the top. paritaprevir Of course, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson says that the lack of energy in some region, such as his home region, Skavegur, can connect electricity into that region without having to produce it at the site. There is not much social impact in a large region of a single water induction process. It's certainly while she's in a building. But that may not be the case with geothermals where resource parks can be created, etc. Lack of energy for innovation and otherwise for any part of the region is natural easy to connect. And I just want to say that hundreds of megawatts in Iceland can be created in addition to their current power only by expanding the power of activation as they are being done in Burgundy, by altering the turban, thus creating greater power, by planning that all Iceland's glacier past year will increase its flow by 10 susceptibility in the next few years. This enables you to add a force without entering a number of new activations. Then, of course, there is a question about priorities. Why do we start on e.g. of Impulse reactivation? Why don't we start with some other activation that will have much less environmental impact if we go into new activations over the next few years? They ask, "What does the orc go into?" It goes into innovation, goes for about two or three silicas, into the electrical part of the transport, into a source of data, domestic fuel production. And then they forget about the energy forecast. The old forecast of energy told about our own small industry and home, up to 2050. Let's say there's so many hundreds of megawatts that we're going to the long way to the 1,400 ready for the colony. When all of this is taken up, there are many things to consider. I don't think it's okay with this case. It's time for a large increase, as I call it in all this energy. It's the deep-specture project I've mentioned here before from the platform, the IDDP project. For example, if you succeed, you have not just drilled this two - mile [5 km] - a - mile [5 km] hole that is ready but found that it is activated and that there are other alternatives in other high - temperature areas to do exactly the same. That's when we've completely changed Iceland's energy patterns. We can activate fewer hyperthermias than we've ever thought of, for example. it's just the ones that are already being activated. And this reduces the pressure on the water mains. Then we should not forget that we need a mixture of both. Electric transport systems cannot be run without two types of activation, as it is not possible to rejuvenate or regulate currents or electrical transport across the country without being able to turn it off and turn it off. And you can't shut down and turn off the earth's thermal activations, but it can be done with water activation. So it's a pretty big deal. I'm going to encourage you to also give credit to a professional company outside of the environment and transportation committee, as was the last time you did when this was being discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I know he knows a lot about it, he's been writing about it, and he's been talking about it for a long time. That's why it was interesting to listen to his speech. I'm sorry that I fell into the conversation earlier when some members of the council came up, but I wanted to hear more from the senator what he meant when he mentioned that he felt that he was a retard. As far as I could understand, he had faith in the work that had taken place. I wonder what. A senator proposes them. Did I understand him properly that he would suggest that we not issue this synopsis as a frame plan in spite of the appointment of a minister? Then I'd like to agree with what. Senator I think it's a good idea. The Parliament's employment committee is also given information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u89	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. I'm simply saying, if we're really going to be guided by sustainableity in the framework plan, we don't understand it, so that we say about the social impact: Sorry, we're going to take them, like nothing special even if Power Institute has been asking for it. For the economic effect, there are no tools and tools. The scientists who said they would not trust them to do so. But will we, then, trust ourselves to take care of the strategy as a sustainable framework plan? I don't think so. I simply say that there are ways to find out, and I always believe that scholars will eventually find some middlehand so that these aspects of sustainability are also appreciated when it comes to sorting. It's especially true of the novelty party. Of course, the matter goes to a committee, and hopefully the committee has the opportunity to determine if all conditions are present. If not, this case will not be taken care of in spring. Then we'll have to wait on it for something longer. But I think the energy companies can have enough to do even if a frame plan isn't set, because, as I described earlier, there's a lot of projects that can be added to hundreds of megawatts without going to new activations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm so lucky to sit down with what's-her-name. A senator at night. The Environment and Transport Committee is looking forward to the discussion that will take place there. I must admit that as a new recruit, I was very optimistic about the fact that we would resolve the matter that I know has been a great deal of controversy and controversy over the years. I've heard it at the Senate Hall that there are some opinions about this strategy as it is proposed. I look forward to the work ahead of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u91	Madam President. No matter how we look at a frame plan, it causes some problems, whether for those who are very palaces under the number of activations or for those who want to be very careful, because a lot has been achieved. We've got a colony, we've got a waiting party that needs an opinion, and we've got a protection party that's grown, so, of course, we're tempted to let it go and do it like that. I'm conservative now, but I'm snooping so I don't have a good sense of whether it would help me or us or people who think like me, very much to do it. But I'm looking at the purpose of a frame plan, which is leading to the development of a process to ensure sustainable activation in Iceland. And if we can't meet just one aspect of the sustainable standards, it's in me. That's why I talk like that. Now it may well be the end that we agree, I can't answer for it. Then we'll just have to make the best of it. But I thought it would be preferable to try better, so I called it a little less so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u92	Madam President. It is very important that this matter be brought to the council. Thank you very much. The Environment and Resource Minister for its historical history, there was a number of interesting developments and useful for the continuation of the discussion, but, in fact, I cut particularly after the top floor. The minister referred to the matter as being handled by the council, and it is a conquistador. It is important that the council be able to handle as much as a matter, so to speak, and consider it down into the background, review the case, see what material is fundamental to the categories underneath, and then arrive to its conclusion. If the council is not in a position or is not able to determine the matter, we are in a situation where it may be necessary to take all these laws even from the source and to review what it is in the whole and law that needs to be improved and adjusted to make a decision. Of course, as shown in the case of the highest order. Minister, there are differences of opinion in this matter. Not all agree with the classifications suggested here, but there are certainly good views that something of the Neon class should not be there, and there are also compelling reasons why some of the activation classes should not be there. This, then, must be the responsibility of the Parliament now to examine carefully. Not all of these things may have to be settled, but what may have to be settled is to conclude that we can continue on a journey that has been established in the past 20 years or so. We have traveled a long way since a law was passed in the late 1990's to assess this very balance between protection and innovation. We've been going a long way, and I'm thinking that there's a good point to take in this proposal that can be resolved and finished but it's possible to understand, so some end up in a waiting class that's otherwise in the neo- or protection category, because it's all right to do it. The conclusion that will result in the release of the council is not permanent indefinitely. On the contrary. The work of the law we're working on will assume that the decisions taken will be reviewed at least every four years. Madam President. Only on the subject of the proposal without the exception of individual priming classes. It's not possible in such a short time, there's a board of committees waiting to be treated. It reverses what has been reported on the secondary results of trade group 1 and class 2 and then points 3 and 4. It seems, as mentioned in the highest court. A minister and she made it clear in her prehistoric speech that these categories do not provide sufficient information based on the results of groups 3 and 4. There may be reasons, but then I will draw attention to the basis on which all these legislation rests, on which sustainability is needed, if one intends to follow that ideologies by all means, to take all three of its major factors into consideration. First, of course, consider environmental influences, second, economic impacts, and third, social and social impacts. These three factors form a core policy for the basis for which man bases all opinions that should be sustainable or sustainable proposals in these areas. This may be as stated in the findings of a professional group 4 that there is no basis for valuation of national interest. The results of a group 3 may not be correct at this time, but in the other professional groups, 1 and 2, one factor is taken out, which is worth evaluating concomitant factors, i.e. A travel service to create. Some activation options are considered whether to be protected or to be used based on the importance of tourism as sectoral. Of course, tourism is also important when it comes to the use of agriculture and nature, but I believe that we need to examine carefully whether it is possible to take one sector especially before we cannot at present assess the national or social impact of these activations. That's what I think I'm here to look into. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal has been suggested. The Environment and Transport Committee and I think it's a good thing, but I also think it's important, in the same way as the Environment and Resource Ministers have the laws to consult with the Industrial and Energy Minister on this proposal that the Environment and Transport Committee and the Council's Work Programme have very close and good consultations, to agree on the subject of this proposal for discussion. While I believe that the matter may be a little stiff, I believe it is important that the cooperation between the two committees of the Council should be achieved, and that will deepen the matter, inform and make it possible for us to be better equipped to reach conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into a few sentences on his case, just so I can understand it better. Hv. At the beginning of the matter, a senator declared that any priming option must be considered, examined to the ground, and weighed and considered. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this work is being done, and when must it be completed? As far as I could hear from a senator, he stressed that the proposal would be administered political treatment and that it would be complete in the proceedings of the council, likely then during the current election period. Counts 'em out. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee that we are in, and he has mentioned two other committees, would have been able to examine every option to the limit in that brief period? I could not have heard better than the fact that the decision to work would be made that there would be benefits. I want to ask you why. A senator's opinion, whether it's right with me, or what his opinion is about it. If so, I would ask if he agrees with the approach that occurred at the previous stage of a political framework that only groups could be transferred to a waiting party to provide experts with the opportunity to study something further that the council felt would require further investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u94	Madam President. Yes, I think it's important that this important matter be treated for Congress. This means that, in fact, there is nothing that binds the hands of the council in any way except the setting and creation of the council itself. This, of course, results because the council is certainly in a position to change the subject of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u95	Thank you. A senator brief and pointed answer, nice. I agree with what happened. According to one U.S. senator, of course, this matter needs to be treated in a judicial way. But I strongly emphasize that this political work will be very careful. I have to admit that I'm not really in the picture - that's why I asked. A senator - how, in the few months that remain of this council - felt the vastness of his opinion. A senator preaches to each other the right thing to do. Then he talks. A senator of a covenant that needs to be reached, but he then tells him not to complete a political treatment on this matter, to see if the legislation needs to be broken down at the time of a frame plan. I asked why. So when would a senator think that the vast amount of work he himself calls for would end? How does he envision a meeting with us on the Committee of the Environment if we need to consider each option; likely, he calls to us experts on which and discuss it? When will he anticipate the end of that work? In his words, there is no other than the threat that hangs over, I allow me to say, not to go through before the Senate or our council hearings, and the law will simply be uprooted. I just don't understand what's going on. A senator sees this work being done, and that's why I'm asking him about it. But it's good to get it to the point. A senator believes that although I disagree with each group, it is possible to move. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u96	Madam President. Of course, when it comes to church treatment, it is proper for the council to take the time needed to get a decision on the matter. What time it is may be depending on the circumstances. Senators want to give it up, it can totally take care of it. It may also depend on the comments that will be presented to the council, on what viewpoints will be presented there, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u97	A respectable president. As far as I can see, there's something going on here. It is a matter of government, a case published by the highest authority. Environment and resource minister, a case that gets the success of members of the board to be submitted here in the name of the government, made up of these three administrations. I can't see better than that. paritaprevir I'm taking the Tot Björn Einarsson in advance. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether this is the case and whether it counts for the entire Independence Party party party that he is acting in a material way in advance of making the ultimate proposal. Environment and resource minister. That, of course, puts all this stuff in a completely new light. Hv. A senator takes a little deep into his years as far as the law is concerned. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion that when he says that the matter needs to be taken up with its roots, he would need to be examined in the matter, as he puts it, so to speak. What major factors do you see? A senator with regard to possible problems with law enforcement? I'd like to ask you, too. To the fact that if a member of the Parliament is confident that he will respond to my speculation, this will be agreed with frame 2 in 2013, but no areas that were under the Precinct series of 2013 have been announced four years later. I ask him what he thinks is the best way, if he thinks, and if I agree that a protection plan is worth something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u98	Madam President. It takes a pretty free interpretation of my words to conclude that I'm warning the matter, quite free interpretation. I'm on this one. I'm on top of it. The Environment and Resource Minister is in the process of making the decision. I think it's the highest. Environmental and resource ministers may receive political treatment. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. At the same time, a senator must agree that the matter will be treated in a judicial way. As to my comments, if the council fail to handle this matter and discuss it, consider all the factors of the person they feel need to examine and not reach a conclusion, I made it clear in my speech that we were in a very difficult situation. This is a very important thing. It is very important that we come to the conclusion of how we are going to continue here, how we will act on nature protection in this country, and how we are going to develop energy resource use.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u99	President. I think it's important to be totally clear about what's going on. Senator. That there is one thing: There is no news in the matter. What it means to present a case for the government, which is supported by the greater part of the Generals, is to support the matter materially. It is the understanding of the council and has been the understanding of a government in Congress, except for its material priorities. That's why I asked. A senator would. I understand him so that he wants to be in a gray area in this regard, that he feels sufficient to support the suggestion that the matter is presented, but that he does not have to state whether he supports the matter materially. That is according to the words: "It is as good as done in advance. " In view of this situation, I believe that there is a basis for encouraging the members of the board to take their advice. Are there other members of the government, the Independence Party, the Bright Future, and the Revolution that make the matter a material warning? It matters. Hv. A senator has said that he feels that the matter needs careful consideration. I'd like to ask him if he would consider the case as it seems right now, to make any material adjustments in the suggestion. A minister will present himself in the power of his office, and in the power of his office. Among other things, a senator. V.E.G. Minister needs 32 senators. Does she have everybody behind her back? In these and other matters? Then I'd like to pray. A senator to answer me in terms of the terms of their resolutions that are already in the protection category.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u100	Madam President. I think it is quite clear what is involved in the therapy of the matter, this case, and other matters. I expect that. A senator may even agree with me on the importance of the council taking it for material treatment, listening to the viewpoints presented. Hv. A senator is also aware, I suppose, that there are conflicting opinions on this matter, whether on what formalities have been followed or could not be followed or how the subject is classified and what evaluations are presented to the conclusions presented here. I think it's very important that the council do exactly this. That's how we'll deepen our discussion. By doing so, we make sure that all views are expressed. Thus, I believe the Council is better prepared to proceed with this case and that we will have some success on the basis of the situation. With regard to the subject as a matter of course. A senator asked otherwise about, i.e. The declaration of peace - without going deeply into that matter - all I'd like to say is that the viewpoints laid down and expressed even. In pro group 1, 2 and 4, it's all important. Of course, the viewpoints laid out to be fundamental to the peaceful description of important natural areas, the environment, and how it is assessed, how it is classified, and how it is identified, and how activation options are graded according to their categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u101	Madam President. I want to start by saying something. paritaprevir The Swavarsdóttirs of Svavarsdóttir said it's very mysterious how it is. Einarsson Teitur's talking about the support of his party in this case. I'm going to talk to you about these things on a general basis rather than just look directly into the points of what you see. There's nothing to complete the country. The book on the mountain farmer tells us how great workers break up communities. It's happening at Þjórðar and at the Whale River. In the United States it is not hard to understand why we are here. Is it extreme to go slower, to stop, to allow nature, as many have spoken of here, to enjoy the doubt? No, I don't think that's too much. Now that tourism infrastructure is about to collapse, I think it would be extreme to continue this expansion policy on a major industry course that we have been on for decades. We've got every contractor and engineers in here. Why is the government concerned about implementing more places when even a platform on Geys? That's about a million people a year. It should be the best thing, if it should be well, as an Icelandic landscape plantation can offer. But the environment around our world-renowned Geys is a disgrace to our country. The plant in Helgavík stands as a memorial of a willing energy policy. The pollution there is disgusting, and the expected collapse of shelters next to the plant in Helga is an example of shortsightedness. Landsnet's plans for tens of millions of investors to serve a few foreign factories, which all of us are to take part in booting, are still another example of deliberate costs placed on the public, on the job, carrying an ostracism on electricity. Hellish activation has been very much in the discussion lately. There's reduced efficiency and sulphur hydrogen pollution in the capital area. Let us stop this expansion policy, focus as a nation on the work that we already have in hand with. We need to consider the infrastructure of tourism, profits, and better energy markets, better efficiency and usefulness, continued debt, and making profits for the nation. Black report at the top. A environmental minister does not indicate that we need to spit on the big policy, on the contrary. Nature is supposed to be enjoying the doubt, and I don't see why we need it, like the highest. Environmental Minister pointed out, all this tremendous energy. What's to do with it all? Now, we need to stop, look at the whole thing, and decide where we're going to treat it as a nation. Iceland is also losing its special status by having the cheapest energy supply. Global development is such that after a few years, we'll just be out of control, and our electricity and energy will be more expensive. There will be no need, as has been in recent decades. We need to stop and start the conversation. I'm absolutely certain that it's the highest. Environment and resource minister will do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u102	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister is very, very pleased to consult this proposal for interpretation of a national protection and energy-efficient programme. There's been a few things here in this Assembly Hall now, and there's no doubt that there are conflicting opinions. We have to respect that. It's like the highest. However, as a minister, I stress that we try to do this work that is put before us in as much harmony and harmony as possible. No one can be responsible for words or opinions other than the project is clear, here is a strategy that divides the energy options specified in a novelty party, a waiting party, and a protection party. As we have seen, people may be unhappy about it, and as I look to the north, I've certainly received a message that people want to see a protection class, a colony class, and I understand that in their own way. I believe, however, that there are things that we need to consider when talking about the use of the natural resources we have to control. In this case, we are referring to activation options and in the review of these advantages of professional groups, which in most cases, is a good support to this. There are, however, differences in opinion. I say here that I think we need to look to see if we're walking on naturemins that are irreversible if we start applying at certain sites, but we also need to see what possibilities exist in this country, so there are many angles to looking at this. I've said it and I can say as much as it has been said that we are now in the lake up to 1,400 megawatts that can be used for the parts we need electricity to go to, but we have to look to how we transport these energy. If we are in a situation where we cannot cross a country with a line set to deliver this electricity, we are faced with the problem that the job structure in certain areas may require that we apply it in some areas that we do not see right now. I'm not here to say that I don't support this Senate resolution, I think we should take it into the committee, cover it well and work for the best conscience, and call our experts. The vast majority of people mentioned here have been able to have conflicting views, but we need to find what we can be happy with. When I look at what's set up in a waiting party, it's in the majority of cases that there's not enough data. This means that if a waiting class is to be moved to either category, there is more information to be drawn up, then the evidence must be reasoned on either side of the human race is going to deliver this activation option, and it is the future project to do so. While we have this waiting party, it is clear that it is not being protected and that it is not going to be a novelty party. It's part of a multiplicity, multiplicity team, so called, and I want to come in just for a moment to realize that I haven't quite imagined the difference between being with windmills wide and wide around the country that has a particular face and which is in its own way even more prominent in the country than in line layers. I think it's time for us to decide which way we're going to move electronic energy, and it's actually more important to be able to settle the need. I think it's a job, and I'm going to suggest it. The Environment and Transport Committee that we use to develop a projection for electricity transport so that we can calm down a little bit about the benefits we are taking on in terms of protection and energy efficiency. I'm gonna do it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We share interest and concern with the shipping systems. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how she sees best in the field of the council, i.e. to respond to Landsnet's plea to get the more clear will of the government to prepare its plans and to compare scenarios with making decisions for the next steps. The one being present is the opinion, or was it then the Environment and Resource Minister, that the tools of a policy framework would be well matched in different transport routes and transport systems as well. I want to pray. A senator on how to react to that thought. Then I want to ask you what. A senator, for word's sake. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einar Einarsson earlier, whether or not the matter has been settled in advance of the House of Independence. It is very important to see how the matter will be settled on the committee and how it will be discussed there; and perhaps most important, because of the situation. A member of the council said that it would be considered to be moving the individual benefits of the committee and even if they disagree on how this movement should be. I'm asking why. A senator feels that something different can be moved that would be done in some form of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u104	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has misunderstood me about the transfer between classes. I'm referring to the fact that this was made clear in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister that it is now the Senate's agreement to cooperate with the synonym. This too was made clear in the case of the highest. Minister that it is not unchangeable. And it has been shown in the case of government officials, but also in the case of the opposition, that there is the possibility of a transfer if that route was chosen. But nothing has been said about it, and I'm not saying that that's what we're going to do or are going to do. In terms of the transport system, I think it's one of the things we really need to do, that we start to imagine seriously how we're going to provide this green energy that we have and can produce, to work, and to live out the country. It is clear that we are well placed here in the capital area and in the southwest corner, but north of the country and east of the country are enterprises that cannot develop their operations and even lack energy to win what they are already working.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I'm asking her to try to answer me on the other hand as far as possible a warning from the Party of Independence to the matter. Even though it was. Einarsson The fact that he made the matter clear did not necessarily support the material conclusion or the case as if it had come from the minister would indicate that he did not necessarily support the case or the case. Therefore, I would like to ask how this is going to be so, to get it completely clearly past the why. A senator who is also chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee. It matters that as regards the processing of the case here at the General Assembly, first of the Committee and then here before the council. I think I understood what I was doing. As regards the possible transfer between classes, a senator was right. I also understood it correctly, I suppose, in terms of the understanding of the wait company. I rejoice in what was presented in her case, that it would be absolutely clear that the waiting party was the scene where activation options were stored in the absence of data, and that it would not be a defence to move from waiting to utilisation or protection when the data were insufficient. I think we have at least... A common understanding of how the tool is used, although I have always felt that we should have far more options for a waiting group, even though data would compromise simply because I don't think we're in such a hurry. I finally want to ask you why. A member of the council whether it is considered to use the majority power to move groups or whether it feels that moving between classes requires some kind of solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u106	V.E.G. President. Just as the last answer is here, it was made clear in the case of a minister, and has also made it clear in my case, that it is very important that we come together and agree. We're not just talking about poppy. We are talking about something that looks to the future, and we need to think more than today. As we look at climate protection in that area, I think that our electricity or hot water energy is very important to us. And we're also talking about that energy being at relatively favorable price for the public. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Industrial Minister at this morning's breakfast meeting of the National Implementation Agency that the average family in Iceland is $250,000. per year for electricity costs but e.g. Danir's paying $730,000. What does that tell us? It tells us, first of all, that we are in the ideal position to use green energy, and we are also in the ideal position that it is practical for homes. I think we're supposed to use the energy, but we need to figure out where and how it's made. I said here in the beginning that I could not be responsible for the words of individual senators, whoever that senator is. I pray not to answer for them. I'm glad that the case is also directed into a job committee, and it's been observed in both the government and the government council members. [[The president calls.]] I believe this is important not only in our work edification but also in how we use our country to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you a little bit more about what you're saying. A senator for a plan of linework, which I think I will and will do. A senator is about as interested in people; perhaps just to piss myself off and draw attention to the fact that I'm in here asking a question at the highest level. Minister for government policy in building the electrical transport system. According to electrical law of 2003, a minister has submitted such a policy to a council every four years, which has never been done. As I understood why. A senator then speaks for the need to look outside just the activation option, that it needs to look at the whole thing. Here in this discussion, I may have had a red thread in my language. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator would have to start looking at the electrical power system, how we're going to get the energy away from possible activation, and perhaps not least how we're going to use it. That certainly matters too. Hv. A senator is the head of the Environment and Transport Committee where I sit, and there we will hopefully get on board a program for transport energy exchange, and we will get an introduction on the climate report etc. That kind of thing. Is this not the whole aspect of the same die that needs to be viewed universally? Or perhaps it is time to stop before taking some steps that could become irreversible?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u108	V.E.G. President. I think my case has made it quite clear that I believe that our main problem now lies in that there is no transport capacity to transport the current electricity and especially when we are off the southwest corner. I'm a senator for the North-east standard. Every time I go north, I get the message that there's a business that can't start because there's not enough energy in the system and also companies that want to develop, grow and become stronger, give more jobs, but they can't because they don't have energy. It tells us that we need a network to transport our energy. When we face the fact that we have energy at the plant, but it can't reach consumers, we need to agree on how that can happen. That's why I'm looking for us to develop a comprehensive policy on how we want to see the network for electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. As I came into it, I think we're going to argue with a line policy. However, I might have been asking, " Would such a course not have to be compared with other policies and plans that we have either made or are about to contribute? ' Everything would have to be under the same hat as our goals in climate. Rather than examining each of our strengths separately and even when it comes to the situation below, should we not take further steps before the overall policy is established? Maybe I'll repeat that question to what? A senator asks how she feels about my meditation. And then maybe I get to ask straight. I agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, who spoke before, and I knelt into the same knees as she did: Is that clear? The senator's failure to make any transfers unless it would then be suspended. Counts 'em out. A senator, the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, that it is acceptable to shift between any category, or to share the understanding that has been present at the council and in the early stages of the case, that if need be, only temporary adjustments might be made to allow experts to look into data and study if they need any factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u110	V.E.G. President. Regarding the transfer between classes, I'd like to say that it is probably possible to transfer the options between all groups if one chooses to do so. This is shown in the words of the highest. Minister that it is in the hands of the council what the final outcome will be. However, it is not a popular language, as I have said here, both in this answer and in answer to the question. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. I think we need to think beyond today or tomorrow. If we start moving between classes, we need a lot of evidence. We need to be careful. But I'm not gonna stand here saying that there's no moving one or anything. This does not mean that we have in mind that we will soon do so. We may see a new generation of senators entering the council after some year, and what happens may not be in our hands to answer now. I just want to say that I think that there must be some way I want to do this job, if possible, in cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u111	A respectable president. As a result of the discussion here, I have requested clear answers from members of the Independence Party, which have been involved here in whether this proposal has been taken into account by the Congress of Independence Party. I have reason to believe that this is true for a word. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson. Hv. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Environment and Transport Committee, refused to comment on the matter of a senator, and I respect her. It's a good thing I saw who. Ármannsson I would like to take them out of their way into the chamber and answer us if a material sponsor was made to the council of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u112	It's got to be clear whether or not. A senator has studied the senator's words and wants to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u113	A respectable president. An amazing, important control device that has had a long pregnancy within the political realm is the Ramma plan. My first impression is Hjörleifur Guttormsson, who proposed a strategy for the protection of rivers and landlands, falls, and who of the council in the year before Iceland sent the Bank of Iceland to Norway. Since then, Iceland's contributions to Euroview have developed at that time, and it has the idea of a frame plan as well. Now, at the turning point, we are actually completing the first four - year process of a frame plan, the first whole four - year process. Before the development of a framework, the whole country was a modern country; now a framework plan has been made to weigh the protection and efficiency, and although the work is not completed and the procedure may be adjusted as other human works do, this is an important step in the right direction. Early in the discussion, it was noted that in recent years the framework of the program has often been under way. That can be true. In fact, I think that one of the reasons why it might not be now is that the Great Peacepan, Jón Gunnarsson's son, has become the Honorable Minister instead of being a respected senator as he was when he was conducting a professional committee during the last term, and he did his part to prolong and tear down all the peace that could be achieved through a strategy. There might be other smaller and larger prophets in recent years. I'm going to let me mention one of them, from the top of the world. Minister of two chairs, Sigurður Jóhannsson, who for a time played the environmental minister, although it is probably a period of time that most of us try to forget, one of his first works was a environmental minister to take the handle of a peace-telling Human Being. They had already been polishing ballscon and ordering loaves and prepared to surface in the Red Sea, celebrating a peace description on the basis of a framework that had been approved in the spring of 2013 when they received a call from the Ministry that the Minister would not attend and that the declaration of peace was set on ice. That's what they called it, e.g. The National Protection Agency for Iceland's National Achievement to a frame plan. You might even have a stronger word for it. In spite of this, professionals 1 and 2 were appointed as Ministers for the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, although they did not have much to do. They were appointed in April 2014 but did not receive a single priming option until a year later. As we have seen, proactive group 1 discussed nature and culture, a professional group 2 on resource use alternatives to energy use, and they used this time of death that the unworked Minister gave them and developed the procedures and prepared the work to be properly prepared after a new minister was placed in the state of the Environment Minister. It was the highest. the minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. She attended the 2014/2015 annual convention, and as early as March 2015, the priming option was presented in a professional discussion with the professional groups. Then groups 1 and 2 could handle matters that were uncontaminated. Something we had to wait for a professional group 3, it was not set up until four months after the activation initiatives were available, and a pro group 4 was not appointed until seven months after this task was started seriously. It may not be surprising that the professional class 3, which examined social influence, and class 4, which discussed economic impacts, does not meet the work of the other trade groups, since they had a completely different situation. As a matter of fact, I wondered, " Why should I go to the highest level? ' Social Affairs Ministers remain on the rosary is an attempt by the government to improve the lack of the assessment of the social effects of the fortresses. I'm excited to hear what comes out of it. After working professionally, they submitted to a project management in February of last year. Then, according to the rules of reviews, and by the end of August, the project administration provided proposals for ministers. This process, overall, to take four years, a process where three years are actually useful in the professional groups, was during the last term cut short to the fact that instead of three years of work and professional groups a year, something we can really ask ourselves, " Is the spirit of the law going around or whether the product is as good as we want it to be? ' But it happened, when a minister had come up with the suggestions that he didn't wait for the campaign, thanks to one of the highest votes. the current minister, now in the fall, and if you look at the timelines as the project management proposed to be the basis for the work 2015- overseer,2017, it was assumed that a minister would get the suggestions from the project at this point, about the month of August/september, but it was also assumed that a minister would use the entire September, October, and beginning of November to review the proposals, debates, reviews, all doubt, and that on the basis of that superiority would be proposed for the assembly in mid - November. On the other hand, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir was waiting on August 26, when she received the suggestions from the projectary to September 1 with the suggestion, so that you might ask yourself if a minister had taken enough of the different views that were presented in the reviews of the matter, if it was a good idea, or if the idea was to push the case off before election, so that it could be completed as soon as possible. It would really be just a debate over history if it wasn't for the fact that the proposal for the council today is exactly the same as the rapid conclusion laid here in September. Hence, it may only be hoped that we will ask ourselves whether the present world power is at hand. The Environment and Resource Minister has made an independent decision on the frame plan, whether the Minister has taken advantage of the time in the Ministry since she came in to cover the facts of the case, to read the reviews that came in in in the year's notice, whether the Minister has not even considered a new story process in view of her being involved in the case, new Minister, especially when we read what has been mentioned in connection with the jaculations. It says, by permission of the President: The level of government where the project is working will not be destroyed. This uncertainty is something that a minister can take into account, may decide to move the continuum transfunctioners to a waiting party before the Minister gives the proposal to the council, but neither Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, then, nor Ólafsdóttir Ólafsdót, current Environment and Resource Minister, chose to do so. Then there are not only the sulphur pollution that has been identified since the Council adopted the 2013 strategy but also because of the development of Hellishe deduction in which the activation of 30 drills was originally to take force in up to 15 new drills over the next few years, just to sustain themselves. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, these are questions that a minister might have asked himself, would you think, has appeared in a review procedure, and is the question, Has it been taken under sufficient consideration and joined by the Senate to take sides with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u114	A respectable president. This is where it rolls. So a senator sees whether the person standing here has a right, if I understand him, something taken care of because of the way I offer the suggestions, as I understand him, as if it were somehow a bit unusual or not, that I'm considering that I'm putting the suggestions aside of a project administration, the points proposed by the professional government, to be presented here unchanged. Then I would like to say that I have considered the suggestions since they were submitted in August. These aren't new information for me from the moment I took my seat on the minister's chair I now sit in. They were open to everyone, not just the existing environmental and resource minister who laid, like the winter. A senator tore it up quickly. We also received a presentation on the job committee, where I had a seat. We were often contacted by the project management board, and I don't remember exactly where it was in the process, even before she formally proposed the suggestions. I wanted to answer this question by saying, "I'm going to give it a lot of thought. " I'm going to make the suggestion well into my mind. This, in my opinion, is the best result. This is a compromise between different viewpoints that I agree with and count kindly to meet different viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u115	A respectable president. I heard as if the Minister were willing to belittled by the professional work of a project management and to give good results in the range to which it was intended. That's not my opinion. I believe that a project management has done a good, careful, professional job. But I'm making significant comments on how the Minister and Ministry will settle the case at the end of the summer. Giving the case four days in the Ministry to get it to the Senate as early as possible to complete it before election is quite shorter than the entire September, all October and the first ten days of November to complete the case at the Ministry, as expected in the original timetable. V.E.G. Minister spoke of her and the highest. Energy Minister would agree on this conclusion, and it would have been quite true to the next town that the two people would agree on energy efficiency here a few months ago, but this is how the government makes people good partners. I would like the minister's position to see if the four days of the Head of the Ministry had some comment on the subject in the fall, based on the way it was suggested, and if Senator Björt Ólafsdóttir had some comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u116	A respectable president. Now I was answering what was meant by me. I can't tell you how the case was tore up with my predecessor. But I have to say, since August, I've done a lot of research. Now I've forgotten the other question. Who was she again? I'm sorry, but the attention has only gone to dollars after being here since two o'clock. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah. A senator was asking about the Minister of Energy, that we were putting this together at the council, the Neo-creation, the travel and energy minister. It is just that the law assumes that a consultation is being made, and that was done. That's just what I'm supposed to do in the process. So I don't think it's unusual that we follow that process like we did.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u117	A respectable president. I referred to the above support for project management of the Þjóturists by permission of the President: The effectiveness of seals and the impact of water volumes and flow changes on walking pathways, spawning stations, and feeding centres of salmon fish will not be destroyed at the level of administration carried out by the task management. Now I have no doubt that the highest. A minister has studied the information presented and the reviews that came in. But when considering these matters, why not keep the caution in mind? Not to be considered when a variety of features of innovation call for different caution Bells to follow the precautionary measures, set options for them, and have them examined more carefully, not the quicksand, but the quality process of the next cycle?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u118	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Environment and Resource Minister is very much concerned with her history as well as her discussion at the conference hall. We'll discuss a frame plan here, i.e. the framework set around these matters in the country and is about evaluating the professional potential for sustainable protection and use, including the key lines to the government's policy on energy protection and use. Now it should be acknowledged that all the forces set up, all such systems, are human works, and within these, there is a degree of flexibility, a degree of thought - making, we can always debate the degree of different factors, or the degree of individuality of individuality. Although, if you compare a wide range of systems and ways to make decisions, I still feel that with such a frame, it is at least harder to do a lot of stupid things than if there is no such frame. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister proposes a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. As a minister mentioned, the work of that strategy is sensitive in many stages, but in my opinion, the process of this strategy has been handled professionally. This also applies to the work of project management and professional groups. The law states that, in accordance with the objective of the earlier legislation, the national and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection, should be assessed in the frame of the programme. This is important because using them may include nature protection. We're always getting better at that, e.g. In tourism, agriculture, fishing, etc, as mentioned, there are also certain limits to the use. As noted in the case of Ministers, up to 1,400 MW is expected to be a member of this framework. It is about half the existing energy in the system today that there is indeed a potential for innovation, although it is, of course, that these activations will not all rise within the next year and if they are attacked by one of them, however, there is a lot of activity ahead of them. But, overall, I think it's an excellent compromise between innovation and peace. A ring with benefits in both directions would make it acceptable to cycle with it in the future. Then we don't know what would happen. The next minister and the next council could change everything and bring it here and there, referring to the examples here made. Regardless of the opinions and advantages of the others and these and these initiatives taken here, I state that I personally have relatively little opinion of them. Then I feel that by offering a proposal of the project government unchanged, the Minister is strengthening the setting that has been created here. So I support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. This is becoming to some extent like a small version of the meeting of the environment and transport committee, here the members of the Committee meet in a speaker's office. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, in his statement that the process of a structured strategy was professional, and the practice was professional in view of the manager's orders to us at committee meetings, and I've been authorized to quote them, which said that the quick treatment and procedure that had been in the process during the last term by actually evaluating the benefits of the law, would have been a deviation from the law, and would have gone against the spirit of the law at its time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator explains what he believes about the fact that it was. As a result, I would like to ask, since the proposal that is now proposed is largely based on the work being done in the hurrying process that the manager and others have said has disagreed with the law, whether or not. A senator believes that this work was sufficient or that it might have been up to it, to show even more professional practices, and to follow even more closely the spirit of the law, to examine some of the advantages, not with the time whip on his back, as tested during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u120	A respectable president. I have not considered it so, and I can't make the statement to my work on this matter somehow contrary to the law or treatment that took place there. At least I haven't understood any comments from that place. Here I am asked my opinion of the circumstances and the work being done. Of course, I have to admit that I may not have studied all that process at this point, but I can evaluate the work of the Committee as if it were on the website of a frame plan and the data available there, and I can't help saying that at the end of their review, I feel that I have worked very well there. I'll make that assessment, based on the results of the job, not necessarily from the background or the time it was given for reviews or answers, etc. It's my opinion that it was all right there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u121	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, in many respects, has done quite well and professionally. All I wanted to ask was what. A senator into this because we were sitting together for a meeting about this. Hv. A senator claims that he did not understand the words of the project manager, so the procedure was not in the spirit of the law. I'd like to ask you what. A senator that if he was confirmed that he had, would that change his view of professionalism and that this would have been enough work? I respect it for what. A senator who would not want to go out in a single primacy, would be a long discussion. As far as I could understand before, we had a lot of work to do at the moment. Environmental and transport committees for peering with magnifying glass into each option, but they have a problem. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee, has been concerned about the warnings that have been made only today, e.g. About the wild salmon stock in Þjórða? This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers that it was not yet clear what the counter measures would be, how it would be handled, but if it were to be performed, it would be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u122	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Now this is how I know that some of these factors will be handled better during the next step, then some work will be carried out. It is part of the global assessment of the process to evaluate the impact on salmon or other environmental factors. To answer, if I can give my perspective on these matters, because that's what 1st is. On the matter of Congress, I imagine that there is indeed some warning in the view that there is not enough protection or some views involved in nature's protection. I suppose, though, that it does not lack the viewpoints in the other direction, that it is not taken sufficiently into account to use energy for job development or in some way. My position in this case would be a relative position with probably a slight angle in the environmental protection section and I think this plan is totally up to its name in order to meet those expectations. That's why I'm happy with the plan as it is. Regarding the previous part of the inquiry, I have to admit that I have to do a little better with the comment and the incident and the prehistoric to shape my view of it. I do not fully trust to say what might be the effect of what future refinements might have on my view of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u123	A respectable president. Here we'll discuss a frame plan, and I'm glad that this council arrangement has arrived. This is an enormously important document we watch here, and I think it is important to keep that in mind when we consider how far we have really gone in the process. This is a device that we've been developing in recent years in order to improve the equilibrium between innovations and the principles of protection. We are faced with a suggestion that a structure that has a very ambitious plan for protection but also an excellent plan for practical use. There is reason to consider some of the ways in which we apply this to continued work. When it comes to the view of protection and innovation, it may never be that the result will be something that everyone approves of. I would have liked to see in this process, which would bring things better, that we tried to better grasp the national benefits of using them. I think we need to watch it with the next frame plan. It is essential that we do so so that we can weigh together the benefits of protection and use. I, however, take absolutely the argument that there was no time for the discussion to be achieved. It's not a fall to influence my view of the proposal here, but I think we need to continue and view a frame plan that we have as a constant development tool on how we can do better. It is of great importance to keep that in mind when we consider a framework of how it has been developing and developed over the years, hopefully for the better when we look, for example. during the discussion at the council now, with the previous issue, there will be less conflicting debate than there were many times before. I think it's a lot more calm and better. The plan is primarily a tool for the council to weigh our benefits in the situation from time to time. Time will change, the attitude of most of us in this room must have developed quite much since the creation of the first frame plan for the Generality, if we look at the technological development that has been predicted in energy efficiency, an opportunity for another use that has developed and developed since the beginning of this discussion, in tourism - the second value of nature from a different kind of efficiency than when it comes to activation. In recent years, they have changed greatly. All of this is of utmost importance when we look at the advantages in the situation, both from a protection point of view and from a colony's point of view. I think that when we look at the scope of the innovations we need to focus on how things have changed. It's obvious to me that the time of the type of industrialisation we were looking at here, e.g. The case of chlamynitis, has passed. We will not build another such ostentatious plant with such power. I support my whole mind on the emphasis that Landing has been on, on looking to smaller projects, on more global projects, on higher prices than we've ever been used to. It is consistent with the opportunities that have developed in our environment in recent years. There we focus on such factors as sea cables, data organisms, smaller industrialized organisms. But what may be of least importance is the opportunities we have in energy exchange in transportation, industry, and seas to the extent possible. There we have many thrilling opportunities and certainly need them to be used. I consider 1,400 megawatts to be absolutely enough for us in those plans. However, we also need to look to other aspects of the possibility of improving transport networks and improving the efficiency of the electricity produced, deep-fraining projects, soils, and the impact on our future innovations and, most importantly, the wind and marine stratospheric activities that provide very interesting future benefits, all of which have a different environmental impact than we have had when looking for e.g. to the hydro-engineers. Although I thought it would be a good idea that men had gone further in the debate on national benefits, it doesn't make any difference that I've come up with a very serious, well - thought - out schedule of my mind. Congress is now taking over. I hope that the discussions and treatments of the council will be as upbuilding and perfunctory as they have been here in the past. I think it's promising from now on. I think there may be wide agreement here on a frame plan and I don't think there's any reason to think there's anything else. Of course, taking responsibility for the project is the Senate. It is the Council to determine the final outcome, and I trust the members of the Parliament's comments to these previous references that the conclusion may be very practical, as all of us should be able to enjoy and be proud. That's all I'm going to have and thank you for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u124	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. There were many good things to be found, and in many respects we share a vision of the discussion that we have considered. I couldn't really have had a place to say. Minister, not that I need much encouragement to come up here, because I thought it was the best. A minister in many ways illustrates the situation well, i.e. the questions we face. V.E.G. A minister spoke of finding ways to look at national economic advantages, mentioning some technologies or development in them when it came to the use, tide, wind, etc. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the usefulness itself, data plant, plant, sea cable. There were some pretty big questions at the top. Minister came in and is well, because these are big cases and these are all the questions we will likely need to take a stand on here. But I felt from a description of a minister that there may be a normal next step in wondering: Yes, we may need to stop for a moment, we need to set up a energy efficiency plan. V.E.G. Minister also spoke of transport energy exchange, we need to go into the line, we need to see where we're going. Are we going to go to a sea cable or what are we doing? I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he feels that it is normal to pause and try to answer all the questions at the highest level. The minister came on, before we take the step of accepting the use of individual assets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of this observation and a question directly addressed to me. I like it. In this discussion, a senator has sought it in his questions to say: Why don't we just dump it all on ice and wait and give it one, two, three more years in advance before we can set up a frame plan? That's why I don't agree. I believe a frame plan is a constant job in progress. I think we should keep developing it and working on it. In the end, we may want to change the practice that a project management operates with them, therefore, between the approved estimates, and develop them, further researching the benefits of waiting and the like. But I think it's also very important, because it's a large part of the process, especially when it comes to the innovation of the programme which takes place after the benefits have been entered into the colony class, i.e. Whether it is possible to make use of them, that we always have a class in front of us so that we can cooperate with it. We are constantly developing into these things, we are constantly discovering new opportunities, and we are always looking to new possibilities in these areas, but we are about to shoulder the responsibility of a body to complete a frame plan, finish a job with it, vote on it, and give them both the use of the protection section, i.e. when it comes to tourism, other factors, apart from the unmoved nature, but also the activation factor in this, certain certainty and destiny. That's what we're obliged to do, and I know that the council will not let anything down on the responsibility of taking a stand on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u126	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. At least I think he's a little casual about my speech today. I haven't mentioned any time in it, that one, two, three years, or what it is. I have in this case, like a lot of other cases that have come on board here, called for a complete view of the matter, whether it is about power lines or other. I share an opinion of what? Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee on transport energy exchange. I had a word with their professional minister the other day about that matter, and I've had a place to speak at the highest. The Environment Minister on Climate and generally this category is presented to environmental and climate-related issues. I've talked about a new energy efficiency program being a key piece of this material. That's why I'm not calling 'cause we're throwing all our jobs aside, and we're gonna come back and we're just waiting for everything to happen. I'm much more trying to make the most of it. Government and supreme. In order to expand your horizons and strike your horizons, you begin to view the whole thing and try to match all those plans. They do not necessarily speak together, the plans here have been proposed, even at the short time the current government has been working. The various plans presented here are as if the projects involved are not expected, such as energy exchange in transport. That's what I've been talking about here. But I'd like to ask the highest. In the four seconds that I have left of my speech, a minister is the highest. Ministers continue to place a transwarp cable to Europe, i.e. Britain?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u127	A respectable president. I thank a senator another answer. I would not put words in his mouth, and I'd be glad to acknowledge that one, two, or three years were all mine. When you look at energy efficiency policies or energy policies, we have to look for the freedom of practical use, i.e. private organisations are fully allowed to set up here for implementation based on the sources provided by the legislation for innovation options. Consequently, governments do not have the ultimate bearing on the benefits they will receive. However, we have watched a significant change in the company's main responsibility, land induction, which has changed its approach to this category and is looking for better management of the resource, so to speak, by maximising the national benefit of using the one to be used at another level. That's fine. I look at the benefits of a sea cable that it might be very interesting, but there are also a number of other factors to consider in this context, how much must be activated for it to become an option, what kind of cord would be laid, etc. But I think in this context all of it, a cable might be very interesting. He improves our energy security, he adds our potential for better energy efficiency, we'll replace the already existing force that we can't use for various reasons, so for many reasons, I think it's very desirable. We should clearly examine whether such projects are to be carried out. Of course, it depends on how this project will be carried out, how it will become, what it will be like, whether it is ideal or not, but clearly we should examine it fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u128	Mr. President. We're going to discuss proposaling a protocol 3rd step-by-step decision. The suggestion is just as it was when we discussed it last September. V.E.G. Ministers have chosen to present him to others. I believe a framework plan has shown itself and proved and is a very good tool to try to reconcile the protection and use of energy initiatives and territories. We have no better tools than this, and we, of course, are also testing ourselves to strengthen the activities that are taking more views, such as social viewpoints. National economic prosperity has also been discussed, and the last reason. A speaker mentioned it, and how we can place prices on nature as such, its value. It's very thoughtful and hard to put that on, but we must dare. We know from the discussion that more than 80% of the tourists coming to Iceland because of the nature of the country and natural nature of the country alone are enormous national benefits, including the eye. That's what needs to be done. In this discussion, I like to hear that a mature person agrees that this program has shown itself, proving that, apart from one action, has not been made. A speaker, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who declared that this tool was handless, although he could not refer to anything better that should be replaced. I view the proposal presented here as a compromise between different viewpoints and, nevertheless, based on a professional basis, as far as it can go. The background of this case is that there has not been enough money to start the professional groups early enough. It was an accelerator back then, but now it's port. You establish your hope that the next phase will be triggered as soon as possible and start a powerful operation in the continued category of land. For my part, I'm concerned about the new-class things, i.e. The lower part of the Tubs, and believe it was a matter that might have given longer time. The time will work with it and show the value of not going to activation projects in the lower part of Dura. We know the views on the protection of the Icelandic salmon there and that the counterweight measures proposed to be inadequate, nothing has shown that it is effective, and that it will affect the environment in case of a decision to perform a particular experiment. Of course, that is not good. I just want to quote the review of the Green Sea Company that came in 2015 to the pro committee, which had its case back then. It says: ▪ Land induction ideas on counter measures due to the three fortresses need to be much more detailed and that the procedure will be specifically supported in a report on implementation with reference to relevant research data and sources. The studies carried out by the Competent Authorities for the inducers are important pioneers but it is clear that more research and estimates are needed for ovulation areas, walk opportunities, spillages, and walking periods of salmon and fishing. These are concerns that I think I have to take into account, and we must not jump to reason on these matters. It also appears in the synonym to support these two inducers, Holster activation and Uryrofos activation, the uncertainty about the efficacy of the shams, and the impact of water volumes and flow changes on walking pathways, spawning centres, and the training centres of salmon fish will not be destroyed at the level of government. It will naturally be discussed in the assessments of the environmental impact of the project and in the allowing process. It also shows a particular stumbling block, which has been discussed in a frame plan, how far the work programme should be done on environmental assessment and on the impact of the environmental impacts of salmon, whether it should be at earlier level in project management and professional groups, or whether this environmental assessment should be carried out in the permit. Well, it looks like who we're talking about. We who are considered to be a guardian, and we want to exercise caution, believe that earlier in the process a careful assessment of the environmental risks in terms of Industry and the protection of the salmon stock is needed, as these materials are largely dependent on them. Also, I'd like to discuss a little social impact. It has been noted that a group of young people in the South, Helmet, a professional development society, are deeply concerned if the lower part of Þjórður is introduced into use and activation projects begin. During the last term, many young people in this area who had a wide range of ideas about structure other than industry and activation, activation, in the region, found that it was the basis for young people to build up for the future in this area and to settle there that the lower part of October would not be activated, and Þjórjósar gave their rocks. I think we have to watch that time is also working with such views, what's important today, and maybe a few years from now we'll have an increase in values. There I think the Senator will fall unsatisfiedly under the view that we should walk through a door very carefully, be careful to activate, and use lower part of Thunder's wounds. I think we need to get this checked out on the environment and transport committee and expect that on the job committee, we'll also get a review. I thought it would be nice to hear what was being discussed earlier that although it was mandatory to propose a proposal for the protection and efficiency of territory every four years, it was not obliged to be handled as such. The Senate has in its own hands how it values this. I believe that the council should look at certain aspects that are subject to innovation and slow down, since this has always been so that time works with nature protection and outlooks change, and the views of nature protection have changed in Iceland in the last 15 years. I believe that the group of greens, like left greens, entered the leading category of chemicals that have so turned into hard-necked activation groups, such as the Independence Party and the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u129	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. Thank you very much. Minister for putting her in and out of her history and to the highest degree. A minister has attended the discussion that has taken place today. I must admit that I personally do not have deep knowledge or knowledge to have an opinion of unique activation options. I think we're gonna do that, huh? Senators, perhaps most of them are in that position. That's why I think this tool that the frame plan is good. I have certain expectations that it can make an acceptable agreement on this important matter party. With the permission of a president, I'm going to take a little off at the beginning of the paper that follows the Senate resolution, which says: In the evaluation of the Environment and Resource Minister, it is important for the General to consider in a material way the proposals of the project and, therefore, a minister has decided, in agreement with the Energy Minister, cr. 1.mg. Section 3. track No. 48/2011, the proposals of the project to be submitted again to the council in the same form. I think it's pretty important that the proposal comes directly from the project board as it continues to go to the Senate treatment. I'm sitting right there. The Environment and Transport Committee, and I trust in the task of reviewing this project, review the comments that have been made in the process. There was a why. Senators of different opinions on this council resolution, it's been shown during the discussion, and I believe it's important that we go over it on the committee. If there is a criticism of a procedure or a particular activation advantage over others, it is important that the committee consider it and review it. However, I remind you in this task management and subgroups that have been appointed by it the total number of professionals, so I have no reason but to believe that the proposals presented here are well thought and prepared by professionals. So you would think in the early stages that this proposal might be a good thing to do, but, as I said before, there is nothing over-critical of the ocean, and we should, of course, review it. I think it's very important, and I'm glad it's the best. A minister has called after this conquistancy treatment because, in the end, we have appointed professionals to do this work, the responsibility is Generalis, and we are to take responsibility for the important task of the framework. I expect we will. Sixty-three senators, have the opportunity to complete this mission. I've heard some of them. The members of Parliament mention the fact that there may not be any reason to end this matter. I want to be optimistic, we're just beginning the project, I'm actually one of those new senators, it may be that some here who have discussed the matter in the past and have therefore developed some opinions, but as I say, I have full faith that we can finish this important matter. To say, I would like to mention what has been presented in the conferences today on this matter, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Environment and Transport Committee, chose that it's as important how we distribute electricity across the country. I sort of agree that there may now be all the urgent work now to work out how to build up a distribution system throughout the country so that energy may spread evenly to all parts of the country, and this environmental energy can be used throughout the country. I'd also like to step in on what is discussed in the wind - power framework. I'm glad that this energy advantage is mentioned in the frame plan, but I also wondered if we at the council need to make some sort of correction that wind power also has to go through a structure and that professional food. I read from a report by the Project Management Board that there was a disagreement between the Power Institute and the Ministry. In any case, my opinion is that it is important that the wind power is part of this process and go through this food. I also wondered if there may even be other advantages. I'm no expert on these matters, but there's one thing that really fascinated me about the wind energy and it's not how beautiful these structures are, I don't think they're anything particularly beautiful, but it's that they're reversible. This may be an advantage when discussing the protection of nature, sustainability and decision making for future generations. I'm not going to extend the discussion any more. I'm looking forward to working together at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee, which is kind of confident that we can cross this important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u130	President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. True, it is a great challenge to meet this challenge. It has a very long history and is relatively complex, both technical and political, and in so many ways. I wish you would. A senator is well - equipped to cope with this issue. Environmental and Transport Committee. I see why. A member of the council thus supports both the process and the material matter, i.e. It stands for the contribution and support of the material contributions as a member of the council, so I'm not going to ask her about the part of the case that I've only been replacing with other members of the Independence Party. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, and that's not the point. A member of the council is going to discuss some aspects of the matter, but now it is suggested that there be one prime option in the central highlands to join a colony. It is Scorpio, or So - called Scorpio, on page. 9 of the document we're discussing here. It's in the middle of the country, but it's already made a centralion there, Highland, and there's a question, of course, that as soon as we're going in there with activation, we're adding to what's already there in this delicate area. I want to ask you why. In line with the work of the Declaration, whether the government's plans to proceed in the national peace description will change anything about this specific activation in view of the fact that I am no better than here is the proposal of the Environment Minister for Environment in this government contract? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. There's a senator leading to The Devil's League. The logical support is, by permission of the President: The sector is in the middle of the country, but where there has already been a central poltergeon... dams and experimental holes are no longer uninjured. Then the argument continues. So the answer to that is yes, I would have thought that this should not be in opposition to what the government has spoken about the central highlands. To say this, I reiterate what I said before that I personally do not have the basis for evaluating a unique activation option, but, of course, I will put forth effort to review all the comments that are presented during a discussion. Environmental and Transport Committees and the tips and comments that have come from other sources in the management framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u132	President. Thank you. A senator's answers are clear. I'm asking why. A senator whether it is appropriate for her to consider this matter in particular, i.e. The work expected in the Environment and Resource Ministry in preparation for some kind of central nation park and their interaction plans for exactly this activation option here. I think it's very important, and especially in view of the fact that the activation is irreversible in the form of water or earthwater, unlike that of wind power. A senator turned aside earlier. It is to the end that priming is more important than a waiting party or a protection party. So I ask. A senator does not consider it to be a reason to consider these views specifically in the processing of the proposal, i.e. Interacting with this factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u133	A respectable president. I just think that we've already received a comment and a tip from a why. A member of the Parliament and I request that we discuss specifically on the Environment and Transport Committee. So I just thank you for the trial that we should take a special look at it from this point of view. I believe we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u134	Madam President. I welcome the positive kind. paritaprevir This is the case with the University of Haraldsdóttir's Bryndís, especially with regard to wind power and reversibility on the harnessing of that energy. But I especially take delight each time. A senator on the matter's being treated for Congress. It is now this time that according to the Convention's Recontraction of a strategy for protection and energy use, it is up to the Congress's proposal to receive Congress treatment. I'd like to hear a further explanation of this great joy over the legal and self - determinational treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u135	Madam President. The sheer joy that is expressed in my speech during controversy - this is to say that I have found in chapters the debate here at the Assembly Hall and also in the community at times that this is not enough of the authority of the council and the authority of the European Commission too much. This may be the factor I was most strongly referring to, that it is important to bring a case in here on the agenda, such as this important matter, but at the same time not only one, two, and now from the council. Because we have to have a discussion, and eventually it's our responsibility here, okay? Sixty-three senators, taking care of the situation. Perhaps it is just such a simple feeling of work on the part of the senator who was presented in that talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u136	Madam President. I'll be happy if it's all right. paritaprevir Brísdóttir Haraldsdóttir wants to promote the authority of the council, especially today at the beginning of a meeting. But I would also like to ask. A member of the Parliament whether she believes that this issue will undergo significant changes in the management of environmental and transport authorities. What is her opinion and opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for those answers. As I mentioned in my talk, this proposal is presented by a group of professionals who have done the job, that I expect to do it very carefully and carefully. So I would now think that the proposal would be unlikely to make a major change in the committee. But then again I refer to what I mentioned earlier as to church treatment. I think it's important that we discuss the matter carefully, review the criticisms, tips that might come out, and maybe one of the most important things, if possible, be able to make a wide deal of peace. If so, it would be a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u138	Madam President. These may be more of a tip than an answer. This is a distribution system, wind, and so on. The distribution system is important, but it does not have a major impact on the framework coverage. We can get hundreds of megawatts without the new continuum transfunctioners. Of course, it has to be distributed over the country. It must be a link between the East and the West. This certainly calls for a strong distribution system, and we must sing about it. In my opinion, wind is primarily about wind graziness, not a single wind mill here and there in the country as we can see, for example. correspondent in Denmark We're talking about even a place like a carburetor, which is west of Hofjört, in an area very far from the road and above the head no traffic. In many places, wind mills have been used as a subject of wind mills. Many people mean that the eco-casphere that is created and run and then destroyed is much bigger than people want to be. We must not forget this. This may not have a crucial effect either. But the reversibility is complete, and it is very important that these ellipses are absorbed into all of them. But the same thing as the distribution system, it's not going to be a major part of Iceland's energy farming. Finally, only on climate issues. There is talk that a structure is important in this regard. It's both. Of course, this is about energy exchange electricity, about electrical energy to industrial organisms that are looking for green energy, it might matter if they want the cable, but then I'd ask you to have a thousand megawatt cables on deck 3% of the power needs in Britain. I think no matter how much we look at it, the cable isn't a big one either in this frame plan. [[The president calls.]] The key issues in climate are less emissions and more binding.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Advertising Guðmundsson for his counter-sponsored and the knowledge of environ ment. I trust we'll talk it over at ease. The environment and transport committee where we're sitting together. In fact, I did not enter the cable in my speech. I hope so. A senator did not take it as if I had been discussing it specifically. It was not part of my speech. But I reiterate what I said before, I think we need to go over whether the law is not completely clear as far as the wind is concerned. Now I'm not going to be some special spokesman for the rise of wind waves all over the country, not at all. However, there are positive factors in this energy process. I think it's important that the lawgiver be ahead of the developers, because I've heard of people wanting to set up windmills and then in relatively large quantities. I just want to make sure that we, the lawgiver, have developed a frame around it before it becomes a reality in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u140	Madam President. Just a short one. This is my business of pulling in the cable. It's not a matter of speech. Senator. I simply did it because it was speaking earlier tonight and, of course, matters when people are predicting the share of a framework of climate. I believe there's a much clearer law and order against the wind and also the tide power, if we go that far. This is just one of the things that need to be considered in connection with the council. I'd also like to point out, though it didn't happen except to others, or so. Svavarsdóttir We need to be careful where we're taking it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u141	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer from what happened. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson, who also thank him for reminding me of the tides. I would have wanted to mention that in my speech too. I agree with him in that, I think we also need to encourage the discussion, even though it may be connected with this piece of paper that we now discuss, the importance of the application around it is clear. It would be wishful if research on the tides were to come forward faster. Perhaps there is reason to consider what the government can do in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u142	Madam President. We're here to discuss the highest proposal. Environment Minister for action on a strategy for protection and energy efficiency. It is exactly the same that was submitted on September 1, 2016 by the then environmental minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. It has been interesting to hear a viewpoint in the discussion, such as the viewpoints that came from a study. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, a senator who has always been and is, in fact, always opposed to some kind of agreement on a structure such as a frame plan, in line with the law on national protection and energy efficiency programmes. This practice was actually accomplished by the government in the time of the Left Green and the Controversy of 2009-2013. But, hey. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson spoke in the Senate's talk program that everything would always turn into a fire and a band of jokes when we discussed a frame plan. It is, to a large extent, indeed, true, that the general public has strong opinions on environmental issues and wants to take part in this discussion, but it is fairly evident that when the applicant party has been responsible for the issues of energy and environment, the issues and treatment of them in the administrative sector have indeed been high. Can I mention a few examples of my case in support of the people, but just name the Kaleganian act that truly parted the nation. And this is where the debates have been traced. Parliaments involved Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, former environmental minister, who worked his limited work in great opposition within his own party and from his independent party, his then government team of cooperaters. But that time has passed, and hopefully it is time to realize that the viewpoint of a more broad range of employment tools out of nature's interests is overwhelming. At least it has the highest. This is how the environmental minister Brart Ólafsdóttir spoke, and I hope that she will succeed in making that point. The preceding discussion spoke to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who says that he misses not having a better look at the national interest in protecting matters. It's once, like the highest. The Environment Minister showed in his answer to this earlier, that it is extremely difficult to weigh the economic benefits of nature and environmental protection. How difficult it is to set standards for uncontaminated nature and the quality of life that come from protecting them! Framework is not and will never be a perfect document for anyone, but the frame is a compromise. As I told you before, it wasn't until the government of the Left Green and the Continental Act on Framework, No. 48/2011, on a protection and energy efficiency strategy, were agreed together on May 16 of the same year. The law came into force on that day and then completely on January 14, 2013, after the Council agreed to a proposal for Congress laid down in Article 3. The law. Finally, the proposal for a resolution adopted at the General Assembly concluded the second stage of a recession program, beginning in 2003. For ten years. For a whole ten years, there had been waiting for the second step of a frame program. In it, activation initiatives were grouped into the energy generation, the waiting and the protection party. Then we work on that foundation and build on it. When we discuss this council agreement at the Senate Hall today, it is not an option to keep it in place, since the conversation is mostly measured in the Senate Hall, that the work in the earlier Senate arrangement, due to the government of an independent party and a forwardee, was not done in peace. There was not always much peace around that work, nor was there in the case of the very inappropriate access of Ennis Institute and Landactivation and its impact on the work of the project management framework. I agree with the views that have been tore up on what might have been held in a frame plan, which is an analysis of the social impact of activations that depend on energy generation. Of course, that analysis should be done, and I'm proud to say it. Minister of the environment to take advantage of it. Also, I'd like to point out, like any other dog. Councilmen have been doing here today, that the rational support for the fact that Holtir activation and Uryr-resorptive activation of the lower part of Þrjörður is based on a very weak foundation. In the synonym, a state of uncertainty about the effects of the fortresses on the spawning stations and the training centres of wild salmon strains is set up. In the face of such uncertainty, I am at least one of those who are advocates of slow pace. In terms of the rational support that is fundamental to the high - temperature areas of energy efficiency class, I have to admit that I don't think that logic is the issue. For example, I call to mind the logic based on the increase in the value of the area around the Grinch and in the Þverár Valley of the Inst valley in the Hoverls region. The value mentioned is not exactly specified. Do they grow in what way? For economic purposes only? What are some of these increases in values? This is not ambiguous or explained, and I would have believed that the value of these areas was precisely measured by other than the economic criteria, which I seem to be the case. So I prefer to agree with the viewpoints expressed in the views of the groups of projects that prefer that areas such as Inst valley itself in Henglinum are a rare curfew in a unique low - temperature environment. I believe that they should be viewed more seriously than economic views. And it's also very interesting. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir pointed out just before about the Tanka and the government's previous plans to start working in preparation for the protection of the central highlands. It doesn't go together, it's clear, and it's clear in the Congress resolution. I hope that this will be explained by the council's resolution. But I'd also like to state in my speech that I feel that there is a great lack in the Senate resolution as well as the general protection perspective which I would have thought would have been at the very present level. Environment Minister would have wanted to emphasize the presence of a member of his synonym. But I hope that in the treatment of the matter at the council committees and again during the second discussion in the Senate Hall, they become more and more views. As I said before, the frame plan isn't and will never be a perfect document for anyone, but it's a compromise. However, it is a necessary tool for all of us to make peace in society for setting up a setting for peace and protection purposes and then, on the other hand, for the wise use of our resources, where nature should always enjoy the doubt. Today, lucky knights have been talking on a frame plan, but we have to keep the framework in order to try everything we can to make peace with her as an instrument. We are not to go back to the past and to choose the individual activations after the right time and the way political winds blow. We're left green at least not of that opinion. We believe, however, that natural resources and their use of resources should always be at peace with the environment and nature and, of course, that they are a national property.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u143	Madam President. I feel compelled to come up here and discuss the proposal before the council, the strategy for the protection and energy use of land. First, I'd like to say that, of course, there's a lot of good in the program that's now laid down as unchanged as it is from the previous council, especially in the matter of the Guardian Party, and perhaps it's not surprising that I'm special about it. I watch them film them for Shiver Creek, Skaft River, and other factors, as well as for the Norwegian Age, which has been a significant consideration in this hall in recent years. And then, of course, the earth's lakes in Skavegar. It is a source of joy to see, both in the field of water and in high - temperature areas. I mention the mountains of Kenlin and the mountains of Kerlin, for example. However, I would like to mention at the outset that I have been in recent years, since 2013, every year asking for the degree of the state of the reservation. I haven't been able to ask a new one. Environment Minister on that matter, I will do it on occasion. Sadly, the answers have been on one path for all three times, i.e. No peace description has been completed. I'd like to begin my business with the highest order. Environment Ministers are now making quick progress in completing the peaceful description of some of the areas that rejected the reservation's last approved frame plan because it is important to complete the work that had been started there. After watching the discussion, as I have been able to do today, I hear why. In various ways, members of the council approach the matter. Of course, this brings attention to some woes. The members of the administrative body come up here and discuss the paper laid out in the name of the government, as if it were subject to significant changes in the conduct of the council. That doesn't apply to all of us. Councilmen, not wrangled. paritaprevir The director of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who spoke before. But this has been said in the matter of several causes. Senators. Of course, I must ask myself, " Do I fully agree with the proposal as it is presented today? ' This is likely to be clarified by the council, but it should have been explained today by the previous siege. If we are to listen only to the words of those here spoken, some members of the management team feel that there is a way to make significant changes in the proposal. I want to take this opportunity and say, 'cause there's someone out there. Councilmen also discussed that this proposal always leads to a great deal of controversy and general harei, that it is because of the very nature of the language that these issues have dissolved in debates and have gone into general havai, so I use it as a word. But I'd like to mention three material concerns, which is, first of all, "Women's activation. " It is one of the last things that we discussed when this proposal was then being considered. It has been said in the discussion that the environmental impact of rock - wave activation is negligible when it comes to how it acts on landscapes and so on. But it does not change that it is within the bounds where we have wanted to see a central national park. It is within the boundaries where we have drawn the line, we have been attached to a central national park. There's a hierarchical block within that line. I would have preferred to see, especially in the view of the government covenant, which speaks for the protection of the central highlands, an important declaration, that the Triocese was now taken out of parentheses from the view that it was normal to be suspended while the plans were to form a Middleland park. I have chosen to understand the government's policy declaration so that it is the policy, although a national park is not actually mentioned in the declaration of policy. Then I'd like to say what I mentioned earlier in a short answer to the highest. Minister on wild salmon issues. V.E.G. A minister pointed out what appears to be a report, that although there is considerable uncertainty about the impact of the Injuries on the wild salmon, there is something to be taken care of in later administrative states. This, of course, is a thought - provoking point in view of the fact that in terms of the environmental assessment being done in 2001◯2003, the environmental assessment has been reportedly with the argument that it is both incomplete and too old. The charge is now with the Environmental and Resource Declaration Committee and has actually been there for more than a year. We still do not know the outcome of that complaint. First, however, environmental assessment of these activations is available. It is not certain that a new environmental assessment will be done in the event that these activations were then added to a novelty class. This gives us reason to consider the need to shorten the time we eat the environment in general. Then I'd like to say it's also something to consider, if we just look at the whole process, that it says here: You can't finish taking a position on the salmon population at this level of government. It is referred to the environmental assessment, referred to the publication of the application or implementation, then expected to be a national inactivation. What, though, if at all? In view of the fact that nature must enjoy the doubt, that there is too much uncertainty about biodiversity, and that there is simply no license to be given because of this uncertainty. Then we can ask ourselves, " Is it not too late in the process? ' I don't know the answers to how you might do this. But this is one of the things that we have to wonder about, those who work at the General and who are responsible for this proposal, if it remains, we must at least want to have the answers to what will be the success of the wild salmon population if the conclusion remains that the counterimprovement measures that have been announced will not be successful. Now I don't think I'm an expert, but I've been studying the evidence, and there's very strong evidence to form from the United States, that there's some objections such as these subspecies that are being talked about are not going to produce the results people have hoped for. I think it's very important to have a very good look at it. I wonder: " If there is still uncertainty, who is the inhibitor? This proposal is over by the General Assembly, we even have an environmental assessment still in place where this is not taken and the ball ends with someone at the highest level. A minister who is not the highest. Environment Minister, i.e. to issue implementation. Now I don't know it, but I guess it's the Minister of Energy who does it. Then I want to finally, because time will only fly on when important issues are discussed, come to the social impact. Of course, much has changed since the beginning of this century as a result of these issues became a major cause of controversy in society in the leading part of the Meriad Realing Syndrome. Then these matters really resulted in tearing up society with its roots and setting people in line. There's been a lot of changes in the environment and nature protection, and most, I think, for the better. That's good. But we also see in what some people talk about, that there will be the social impact in the event of, as suggested here, three of the fortresses that are built in, i.e. The three seasonal insurgents that are built and will have a significant impact on the community there, the work structure there. I referred to my counter today's approach to the Department of Professional Development, where people of the younger generation look at the opportunities in the region, how to use them in a sustainable way, e.g. with a travel service I've mentioned, intelligent and innovation. They point out, as I find interesting, that there may even be some debate around this area about that if not enabled, it would, for example, be activated. Don't be put on a bridge. Social groups believe that only setting the bridge would be more social and economicly positive for this area than setting the activations there. They testify that this will increase the opportunities for transport within the region, which will increase the possibility of working on different work structure. Sadly, ten minutes is not long for this matter to be discussed. It was originally shown that the social effects were not fully evaluated. Of course, we too, who bear political responsibility for this matter, must consider how we should handle the situation in that light. Some have then said that it is then right to put it aside in view of the lack of success and failure of methodology. At the same time, we have the strong voices that ask us to take a closer look at them, so it's also a huge subject for a environmental and transport committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u144	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the urgency and encouragement to start by making peace announcements. This is a legitimate tip. It's gone way too slow. There are a number of reasons why this is so. A senator knows. There may be no need to swerve them in this short answer. But I'm very aware of this and I want to do better. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned that she had heard of it. I'd like to say that I've been sitting here all day listening and I haven't heard of it. I have understood then the word of the senators in a way that differs from that of the past. Senator. People have noted that this is a contingency treatment, it is about to begin, and of course it is obvious. It's all good and good. But maybe we have what. A senator did not understand that in the same way, the things I have heard from each other. If we fail to stick to this structure, we need to throw it out. On the contrary, I don't think there's anyone willing to do it. I've heard this insistence that we stick to this arrangement. I certainly agree. I'd like to come in to The Cradle for a minute. There are some things you've had to swallow in this suggestion. I'm gonna tell you honestly that I had to swallow The Devil. [[The president calls.]] You're right. It's a compromise. I had to swallow it. However,falla has been designed so that it is there with a lagoon from the stairway and, apparently, does not cause significant interference in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u145	Madam President. First thing I want to do is celebrate the ultimate. Ministers are planning to make it harder to put increased force in peace descriptions of reservations. I know it as well as I know it. A minister may find that there are several reasons why peace has been delayed. However, questions arise as to whether more human resources and more money are needed to complete them. It is also a matter of political priorities. But I'm happy if it's the best. A minister will seek that amount of men, and this may be money to put more power into it. V.E.G. So a minister asks me what I testify to when I give a thorough witness. Senators of the board. For example, I can quote words of reason. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, who came up here, believed that there might be a significant change in the proposal, and he was asked about it in response to the question. Councilmen. I may have witnessed to them primarily, and that's why, normally, I raised it. I understand the highest. A minister may feel that the greater part is support for the completion of the matter, though, it does not go along with what we can call a significant change. I understand the highest. A minister would think that this is the spirit within the majority of the area. Tribals and compromises. Surely we all know them. But then, in view of the declarations of the peace and protection of the Middle East, which, of course, is a huge political policy, is not normal, because there is no one to suggest, or at least I was making it necessary, to put Archipelago into a protection party, but I wondered whether the political policies that have been submitted are not sufficient for them to be placed in a waiting party, and it was determined as to what conclusion will be of the proposed policies. Of course, we also need to look to it, as I said at the beginning of this discussion, that the category of entertainment can bring to some extent irreversible, which does not apply to other categories in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u146	A respectable president. Only the peace reports first. Of course, it's not just about the resources. I know why. A senator knows that. I think it's best if we agree, if we have a conversation with rurals, landowners, and others where the knife stands in the cow, so to speak. It takes time. But once again, I stress on these forms of peace. That's why they called it. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson and what he said. I listened carefully to his speech. I also heard him think, I wrote these down, people interpret his words very freely, as he said. I don't want to make him feel that he wants to change this proposal materially. I wish that others do not. Middleland National Park and Stockholm: As we know, efforts are made to protect the central highlands. It was taken into account in a government covenant, although it did not appear in the middle of a nation, there is something silent. But that's different. That's what I'm picturing. There are still some fortresses in the highlands. A central nation park will translate some use, activity, but I would have wanted to see that it would not be used more. I'll tell you right now. I don't want to see that it's called the Cold Guaranteer, for example. Get to work, because she's lying right there with the Þjórður. This is very important. This, however, is the result of the project management framework. I agree with her because, as I have said, that if there was a compromise, there would be someone who would be perfectly satisfied with her, it would be a strange compromise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u147	Madam President. The task management of the Framework Programme is aimed at providing a specific professional classification based on professional data and analysis. This proposal then goes on to make a statement in which all can enter and minister will come and give the proposal to the Council where the Council will eventually have to take a political position on the results of the project government. What I pointed out in my case is that, at the same time, a political declaration on the protection of the central highlands has been issued. There can be a wide range of functions, says the highest. Ministers, there's the potential for activation and all kinds of things that are exactly right. However, during these policies, I would have considered political rights that we are waiting for further decisions. I'm not going to tell you what the outcome may be. The decision is to set off work on, such as the highest. A minister here says to set up a highland park where, of course, roads and some type of human activity will be affected by that national park. However, since the debate on where it should be should be, how it should not be done, would it be proper for the General to decide at the same time to place priming options in this region? I don't think so. We have a role at the Council. Part of it is taking a stand on such exact matters. V.E.G. A minister makes it clear that she sets out for us the project administration as it came, based on these professional factors, but at the same time, we will be able to attend the council when we deal with the matter of looking to these political views. It makes me feel that we should always work since we let nature enjoy the doubt and not make irreversible decisions, e.g. in such cases. [[The president calls.]] That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u148	Madam President. I'm going to start by celebrating that this time it's the highest. The Environment Minister suggests that this case will be referred to an environment and transport committee where it belongs. So we do not have to stand in the dispute that marked the matter during the last term. Second, I'd like to say that I think the project management did a good job, though it had been better off, both in terms of time and money. We're in a hurry. But it may be called a good job, since she has been able to do this under pressure to speed up her work and then, because of her lack of money and conflict, to arrange payment for some factors, etc. Nevertheless, I believe that this has been quite successful. I'd like to share what I've actually done in public before, including. in newspapers, which marks this matter in a very small way, and is not the least of which you can see from the waiting category, that I'm very at odds with the development of the Energy Agency in the effort to, in fact, tread all possible activation options into the work of a project manager, which, in my opinion, is not relevant to it. In fact, the Power Institute tried to get Jack into the Mountains but had to admit victory when it was found to be a refuge, of course, as part of a Lakehjörður park. It's based on a proposal from the Power Institute there, for example. Within my waiting category, a complete discolouration of two to three decades of old activation ideas, such as from the 1990 Whitebook, the activation of phalt wounds, lowers, and upper steps, destroying four salmon fishing years at once to scrap up one twenty-30 megawatts with canals and holsters across the wilderness. What are they thinking? As men would probably say today in modern languages. How can you think of this, being under Hophath, the one of the greatest pearls in the country of Lakes and salmon fishing rivers, the Water Valley and the Waffron River, if it's an energy agency that rubs it into this business? Fortunately, the task management will do nothing more than delay, but it does not even belong, since they are pearls to be left alone. It can be said that, in many ways, the primary outcome of the project management is in good balance, at least she puts the person standing in such a position that you are a little pulled in two directions; on the one hand, there are certainly significant targets for protection in the interest of nature in order to place in its entire area the Shiver River and its water fields, the Shire Lakes, or the glaciers in Skavegurtir, and their water fields in a reservation. That's a lot of winning and a lot of trouble. But then there are other things that are heavy for you, like the activations of the lower part of Turbulence, and I can totally agree with it, too, with the Cradle Age. The delicateness of the activation is how far inside the country, in the middle of the country itself, and thus directly into the ideas of a large and handsome Icelandic Middleland park. I am personally of this opinion, and there I may be one of the most conflicting conclusions, that it is absolutely untimely to bring Urrandir activation and the Holite reactivation of the waiting class. There are so many adequate research and the implementation of the ideas of activation that it was half enough. The salmon strain in Þurdar is one of the strongest wild salmon stocks in the North Atlantic. He is very special, and he has prospered and applied with his own strength. It is not a product of breeding, and the hunt is up to 10,000,12,000 fish a year, of which up to a thousand fish are found on the poles that fall in Þjórður, such as Calfá, Fosá, Sandá, and the Memorial River. This makes this species one of the largest and most valuables we are looking for in Icelandic nature and, although more often, in many places. But that's more than salmon. There's a lot of winding tunnels in the summer, and there's pink, probably both seagulls and local. This is a local population of wildebeests, with vast habitats of salmon fish that all depend on in these activation programs. Obviously, Uryrofos is the most spare in that he blankets all walks to the upper section of the lake and may damage the plants on drains, etc. ............................................................................................... Invasion is very bad because it destroys large areas in the middle of the river, likely habitats that are a deeper part of the foundation under the strong strains of the river. There, in broad and riverbeds, with fresh water, in some places along the country, there are huge spawning and habitating areas. In addition to the planned design of Holtic activation by Land Implementation, there is absolutely terrible and to save some small items, the activation is designed in such a way or preliminary design so that it causes far more damage and damage than it would have to do, a different design, by taking water into the activation on one side of the year, while allowing the flood to pass through the other side of the void, which everyone sees how unfortunate it is. There's a lot to think about. These inducers also play a significant role, as well as a result of disturbances, in close environments and high social and cultural effects. I think it's very strong that these activations in the lower part of Þjórður, if we assume that Ignorance is supplied with the last stratospheric process, that the two at least Stand by, of course, all three. Of course, time will not allow long discussion about other aspects of this, but I would like to mention, as has only been limited in this discussion, that, of course, there is reason to discuss a frame plan and its findings in relation to energy policy, national energy efficiency and transport. Granted, all of this hangs together, and the general council would need to take a good time to discuss all of this in context. There are men in this country walking around trying to convince us that we're running out of electricity, that the lights will be turned off in a few years. They're the ones who think and really can't think about less than hundreds of megawatts, and they usually go with them at the other end of several hundred thousand tons of aluminum eels that have to swallow 400 to600 megawatts, something like that. In that sense, of course, the country is becoming powerless, we cannot plug in any new forms of sophistication, but when it comes to the general market and to the smaller and medium-sized industry, there is no danger, and enough energy already dropped into a colony that can be made available in the coming years. Of course, the common policies, energy efficiency policies and energy efficiency programmes for Iceland are missing, where energy exchange is absorbed into them and some policy is taken over how far we're going to go to use in some decades of this resource that's activated energy at a reasonable level in Iceland. As a greedy generation today, we should remember that it is not our only decision to make these decisions forever and on the behalf of future generations. I think it's natural to think that they should also be around them as a resource of that kind, where they're supposed to leave something for future generations. The transfers are very connected, too. I believe that Landsnet's plans are still too much of a melancholy approach, that the moving system around the country must be extremely efficient, high - speed, and can move hundreds and hundreds of megawatts together and an army across the country. But for what benefit? Not public. Not medium-sized users. No, that's so that you can connect on the ring or anywhere that you can use. Many of the problems faced in transports today would be easy to solve if men had other and more modest schemes for energy efficiency, which were more important to the needs of national and medium-sized users but less important to major activities. Then, for example. can be used with a lot of lines on the ground, and it is less affordable, which will be less suitable if all of the plans are covered. The land is not going to run out of electricity, but the transport system, especially in certain areas, such as the northeast corner, to the West, and the Middle East, has to be strengthened, but it is all soluble and able to meet the needs that are now being met. The General Assembly and the government are now to take a good time and consider all of this in context, including Paris, and the climate issues, and each of our overall policy on these topics. Let us not rush into anything, Mrs. President, and I specifically recommend it, since the matter may be taken to an environmental and transport committee, that it takes a complete and complete view of these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u149	Madam President. First, the reason why the matter is being addressed is perhaps because of the way it enters the council. It does not enter the council in a demonistic manner, as was the last time. The head of the trade committee trolleys here with noises. This may be the first and last reason, and luckily, people have not had to waste their time on it. I also have to agree with my satisfaction that the case is now back home, i.e. on the Environment and Transport Committee. Today, it has been said something about whether the council is not the cause of decision making and whether it means that we need to adopt this process and this law. I don't think so. It has often been the case, especially in such large matters as this, that they develop into members of the council. A thing develops when it has time, but not because it is to be pushed through. This is clearly a matter of time and attention, whether it is handled by spring or later, that alone is not important but that we give ourselves all the time we need. It was said that the journey would be acceptable, not necessarily the result, and that is probably correct. We had to come to the conclusion that in itself we had to agree that this structure was the result. It also said that it had never been accepted, but it is true that the road is this. I don't think we'll ever agree on the results, as we've seen here, and there's too much between those who are the most excited to use and those who want to prevent a state of protection and peace, and otherwise, more so. It was a pleasure to hear from the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities when he said it was time for Käflönnnna. I don't think anyone ever thought that we were going to experience that again. But he made other ideas that you may not have thought well, such as sea cables and such, but he also called attention to the need for energy exchange, whether in transportation, fishing, or other places where it is possible. I'd also like to say and agree with what was said earlier that there is considerable energy in the system, but there is a lack of transport capacity. Thus, considerable use of the products that are already present in a novelty class can be made without getting involved in any more of these. It has also been said to protect the central highlands, so it is now important to watch what goes on in this storm. I have to agree that we need to take good care of that. I believe in the highest. Environment Minister who has spoken on behalf of nature at least You trust that it will be more on top of the other. I have to say that I cannot help but describe my pleasure by saying that doubters in the ranks of government officials have shown whether the proposal on this table is the best. But I also agree that there is, of course, a happy conclusion here with a lot of things, especially in my territory, i.e. northeast. It is under intense pressure, such as in some places. Senators and I have received a challenge to underscoring and so forth. I must say, I can't accept that challenge on the part of the local people. When we have something so delicate that the natural nature of Iceland is, we may never be happy. On the other hand, we wisely discern this. That does not mean, however, that in this case, we do not exert ourselves vigorously for what we believe or do not believe, perhaps under both circumstances. It has been mentioned here, whether or not we speak about the Shiver River and the glacier in Skavegar or Ald Island Falls, that it would be a great accident if people began to make it happen because I think we should always be guided by nature's ability to enjoy the doubt. Hence, it may be said that a frame plan is somehow in the wrong; those who want to protect must always put more weight on evidence in some way that it is wise to do so than those who want to use it. The underlying information has been said to reduce the risk of tourism in many of the areas expected to activate, including Which I spoke before, whether by the river Shiver, or elsewhere. Of course, it is not just that. We're talking about bird dumps, and here we've been called salmon food shortages and so on. There is no possibility that any proposed objections will go along or be able to resist the negative effects on the environment. Now it's time for the Environment Commission. Now that there is a financial agenda ahead, when financial policy will be taken care of here at the council, financial programs will be next scheduled. I encourage representatives on the Environment and Transport Committee to make sure that money will be available in order to complete the peace description process in many parts of the world, and preferably increase it, because it does not really happen if there is no money left in it. That's for sure. So this is one of the things to remember about this project, i.e. When considering a framework plan, what it would cost to do, and in reality when the issues under a environmental and transport committee and in the rest of the financial programme come up under consideration, people in general have this in mind. It's not a long time here, and you just mention something very brief to get in on what may be next. Others have been talking more about Thieves and Puddlers and other things that have been done well. But as I say, there are good things here too, but others you find hard to fight, such as. The inducers of the Þrörður that have been discussed. Of course, it will never be possible to meet everyone. That's why I'm just saying over and over again that it's our senators to believe in the process we're in, but that doesn't mean we're not allowed to resist, we think, as we've been told, that the work has been fast, and the people who've come to this case have talked about the time's not enough. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did just right, how it has been, and the fact that the head of Project Three Committees repeated many times that the urgency of the time had been considerable. This, on its own, may be the reason why this question was asked why the proposal would remain unchanged, whether it should have taken more time in view of the fact that the matter did not really receive the time it was originally intended to receive in the process. We have good people on the Environment and Transport Committee. I trust that. We have people who are very knowledgeable about this group of languages there. I certainly hope that the committee will take advantage of this when she begins to receive visitors and their better - informed viewpoints. A respectable president. Now I'm going to give it a go. The matter is likely to be addressed to the Committee, where it receives the professional discussion that we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u150	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say a few words about the current issue, i.e. A proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. Today's discussion has been perplexing and perfunctory. I also have to give my highest commendation. Minister Björt Ólafsdóttir for having been present all along and actively participated in the discussion. It's a good example. In my opinion, methodology is the best system we have to assess activation options. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk earlier today, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned that the methodology was factual, and we had to do something else. However, it is my opinion that so far we have no better tools than a frame plan to evaluate the use and protection of activation options. In this respect, we, me and my party club, right? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, disagree. However, I am concerned with him about his work, and I have doubts that we will abide by the law, since the assessment of social effects and the national impact has not been taken into account. That's what I'd like to do. The environment and transport committee take special care of these factors in their work. We don't have any equipment to measure specific factors, such as the highest level. A minister in his opposition to this criticism under the law of the frame plan mentioned earlier today? If not, can we create a measuring device, or do we need to change the laws on a frame plan? At least I think it's important that when we have the law, we have the ability to follow it fully and if not, we need to have an open mind and potentially adjust the law, make some changes. We just need to look at it. I trust each other. A committee that is perfectly capable of doing so. We had a very good discussion last week on climate issues. I'm also interested in considering specifically whether we would need to participate in that step of the Framework Act. The climate will play an even greater role in our existence than it does today. So I think it's wise to keep the matter in perspective when we discuss protection and activation. I also wondered, " Is there some confusion in the law, so it is not clear enough what to do and how to do? ' You've heard the criticism over the years that some of it is adhered to. I don't know. But I would like to mention it here, in fact, on page 24. 6, that professional groups 1 and 2, to illustrate, which were appointed on April 16, 2014, used the time to discuss methodology and to assess the status of knowledge and the research preferably lacking in areas of high probability, would be considered where no priming option would be considered. Thus, the professional groups used their time. Thus, it is not possible to say that humans have no means of doing things. As far as I'm concerned, all the people who've come to make a frame plan, I mean professional groups and all the professionals involved, have tried. I believe it. Everyone has done their best, but it's always better. We should be alert to see if we can improve our work ethic. It is as has been noted in the case of several members of the council here today that there has been a stipulation of a framework since the law was accepted. I'm sorry about that, because this tour was started in a transpiral way, and we all had hopes that at last we could work for the continuum transfunctioners and protect them on a professional basis. I hope that we are in a better place now. Certainly, they do not agree that the suggestions presented in the Senate arrangement that is now presented are as good as all. Clearly, there are differing opinions on this subject. I'm not going to evaluate the priming options listed here and how they are classified. On the other hand, I rely on it. The management of the environment and transport committee will be problematic. I look forward to reading the reviews that will be received. V.E.G. President. Before I do what I want to do, I want to say with my voice. paritaprevir How does Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir feel about the fact that we should look at wind - power workers inside the box? There are certain advantages of such activation, such as cognition. A senator mentioned, e.g. This is a reversible process which is positive. We have already taken our first step in the use of wind power, and there certainly are future possibilities that we need to be open to. But I believe that wind - power workers are examined in total agreement with other activation options, and more important, such activations are like others. Such peace can be achieved only if there is a professional argument and informed discussion. Another thing I cut off on the case anyway. paritaprevir The powers of Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir were distributed by electrical energy and electrical security. Hv. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice also came into play in her case earlier today. Indeed, we need to improve the transport systems of electricity and make sure that they are evenly distributed across the country. This is a vital task that we must give priority to. Another factor is energy security. As the situation is today, it's not in good shape. I have, for example. Sources of the insecurity of energy represent various companies for cleaning, e.g. in the East, and do not plan to go into the discussion here about the development of electricity. There's another arm. We just need to take a special discussion about it soon. But the electrical issues aren't good enough for today. Of course it all hangs out, but I wanted to name it. We need to revise these items and make needed improvements, that's clear. V.E.G. President. This speech is now longer than I thought it would be. I want the Environment and Transport Committee for the best at what it does and look forward to participating in the discussion when it comes back in here to the council, and more meat will probably be put on the bones where all reviews will be in the house. This may give us a deeper depth of our discussion and help us to develop a stronger view of what is already in the Senate arrangement. It's a fine start, certainly not perfect one, but we are. Congress members will work together to create political reconciliation over what steps we will take in the years to come. It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u151	As long as they [Laughter in the Hall of Congress] beds within the time zone.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u152	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] bedsting within the period of time.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. A speaker for a fine speech. She could have been even longer. I'd like to think about my speculations in this context. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister to 90% of manufactured energy is currently in use at the big centre of the country. In the daytime, it was at the height of the day. The Minister of Industrial Affairs proposes a resolution on the energy switch action programme. What do you think? A member of the government's policy on this issue? It's been foreign through the years to go into the continuum transfunctioners just to connect with some cellor. It's activated for industry. Now the question is natural: Where does it need electricity? Is it a home and a smaller business in the country? Is that pressure from industry? Or do we look forward to changing time and changes in social patterns and sustainable development in these sources of energy exchange and energy use, regardless of land, air or uterus? The Parliamentary decrees I quoted suggest that the 2030 target for a 40% share of renewable energy in transport in the country, compared to fuel forecasts, which in other respects accounts for a 27% share of renewable energy sources in 2030. I'm sorry. It's not time for a senator to link all of this together, for what we're going to activate, and for whether we're actually talking about energy exchange in the country's automobile fleet, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir very much for a good answer. I have to admit that I have not read a Senate document quoted by the Senator, but I intend to. As far as I can hear, we're looking for government emphasis to change. It is obviously less difficult to build a big industry than it was not so many years ago, it is clear. I give examples from my home-in-the-house, Smokeytown, which contains news, in fact, conflicting news on the construction of inscriptions in Helgavík. True, there are changing times, increasing emphasis on green industry, innovation, and other things. There will be a very special discussion tomorrow about innovation at the council that will be interesting to observe. Another question I received was whether there was a lack of energy, whether a small company and a home needed energy. As I entered earlier in my speech, I feel that we have to get the distribution to a better place than it is now. I think we should get what we already have, i.e. distribution, electrical security, and the nation's nation's triphasic electricity. I think that's the basic point we can start with. Then we can go further. I am, for example. absolutely contrary to the idea of sea cable fixation. I have presented a written inquiry to the minister of the policy of these matters. I look forward to the answer to that question, and I eagerly follow along. [[The president calls.]] But let's start with the basics and then move on. The Ministry needs to be connected better than at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u155	Mr. President. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator will agree with such factors as opposing a cable, which would put a great strain on the expansion of the country. I'd like to ask a few questions at the end of the social and economic factors. A senator came in and the Environment and Transport Committee would cover that aspect of his work when she called for information. Now's the time. Senator of the Council of Southland. There, young people living near Þjótur and camp in the southern part of the country have established the job development society of Helmia. As I understand it, some 110 people have signed the challenge that a Major won't be activated, the lower part of Þjórður, and they have other ideas of structure in this area for a new generation, a new attitude. I'm sorry. Is it not true that when a new generation, young people, see the situation, and appreciate it, we do not get ahead of ourselves by going into the use and activation program in this area, when there are many more and more possibilities than we can possibly begin to activate in this pearl that we have and are invaluable? The view of pearls, such as the Þjórður, is about to change for the future, and it is not appropriate for our generation to push it down by putting them into a colony with its irreversible effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u156	V.E.G. President. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, at this point I do not want to evaluate the priming options considered in a preemptive pact proposal. I want to hear and see the comments of the members of the environment and transport committees that will be involved in the coming weeks, and then maybe you can make a clearer impression of that, benefits and defects of a particular project. I'm like a river. One senator mentioned, a South American senator, and met a variety of people with differing views about the activations of Þjótur. I've been talking to farmers who live with a Þjórður who insists on e.g. ... thatsurrectiveressation will become reality and all benefits will be fully used. But like a dog. A senator also mentioned a society that has a different view of the future of the area. I assume that once the committee has the case, these members will turn in their comments and give reasons for their case. Then, according to the way this appears to us, we may agree or accept. But number one, two and three, I say again and again because it's very important that we senators pick us up now. We must make political peace with regard to the work that a structured program offers once and for all. We must build trust in this tool we have, and we should be careful when we appreciate the activation option. We are to treat nature with dignity and the future in every case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u157	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a proposal for an interpretation of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, or a frame 3, as it is most commonly called. I have been in many excellent discussions here today, but in the middle of a discussion, I began to think and read the text of the Senate arrangement, especially section 2.2, which reads: In the pursuit of a protection and energy efficiency programme, a team 3 sought to assess the potential for individual methods of activation to produce changes in social and regional economics. The results of the trade group were of little or no relevance to the final order and classification of activation ideas, so the project administration 3 resolved to look for ways to approach the social impact of activation ideas in other ways. A group of experts worked a memo with the first suggestions for such methodology, followed by a professional group of 3 in order to assess the activation initiatives and regions in terms of their impact on society, such as the impact on social well - being of the population, social diversity, communication, solidarity, function, and other factors that the group considers desirable and possible to evaluate, such as the order letter of the group. Among the more recent performance recommendations, a meeting of population populations was conducted in areas where priming is found. [...] A group 3 returned to the results of local surveys and meetings. However, its methodology did not allow the order of activation options. The synopsis also states: On October 12, 2015, the Project Management Board appointed a professional group 4 to discuss activation options and areas with respect to economic factors, especially from the influence of individual activation options or groups of national initiatives. [...] A group 4 concluded that there is no basis for assessing the national efficiency of the initiatives under consideration in the 3rd course of protection and energy efficiency programmes. Hence, there were no other results from that professional group. So the process seems to have not quite worked out. In the introduction to the council arrangement, we will discuss: The protection and energy management programme should be in accordance with the rules of law No. 48/2011 evaluated the national and economic, environmental, and social impacts of innovation, including Protective.How can I help you? So the question is: Is the letter of the law being met by this work, where professionals 3 and 4 do not provide results that are useful for the work being done here? Are we here with half action in our hands, free of social and economic factors? I just wanted to get it into the discussion. I realized that when I read that again today when we were in the discussion. I don't think that's quite the same. In turn, regarding the other aspects of the controversies that should be mentioned, such as the wind, it is mentioned in this program that Bundle damage will be suspended, and the use of a unit is then spoken of. It provides a suitable location for the energy distribution system, and so forth, it takes little wood to connect it to the national electricity system. I just wanted to step in and emphasize the importance of considering how we're going to use the wind power, since I want to avoid landing in the same position as we see wide and wide throughout Europe, where windmills are being distributed unbelievably wide. You almost always carry them in front of you when driving around Europe. I would have liked to see that this would be the case so that we would have at the same spot a few places in the country, but we would not spread it far and wide throughout the country. I think it's important that we start this discussion and shape it because there's a lot of fermentation in this area. It has been found in studies that the use of windmills is in few places greater and better than in this country, about 42%, reminds me of 28% of the global use of windmills. It seems that we also have a practical option to reduce the price of windworming on the layout and the like. Hence, we need to develop a pattern of what we want to see in this regard. The energy exchange is a very important matter. I've been driving a power truck for three years and I'm a big spokesman for the energy exchange and the great ideas of green energy. We talked about it last week when we were discussing the climate that it's a lot to do in that area right now. Then I'd also like to take this opportunity to discuss, because I'm a senator for the Northeast District, the serious situation in the electrical and electrical transport transport network. In Eyjafjörður, there is a resolution that has been for nearly a decade. We can only see that there will be some way in which these issues will be resolved, that we will be allowed to receive better electrical connections into the area. So it can be assumed that there will be a 15 - year - old total stop point in this field. In the fall, Akureyri reported that a trade company has bought an oil pot to secure itself for the use of electricity and impairment. It is very special that we have entered this position. It describes the seriousness of this matter. That is why, as noted by many members of the conference today, it is extremely important that we consider the base line and how we're going to connect the electrical system. I've heard that in reconstitution, you're locked up with 10, 20 megawatts of energy that's never been used because the transport system is so weak. The population transport system is now about 100 megawatts. In many places it is 40, 45 years old. But a new groundline would have a transport capacity of 400, 500 megawatts, which would significantly alter this environment. I think it's also important that we start opening up the way we're going to tackle it here, i.e. energy distribution across the country, whether we're going to follow the mesh line, the explosion circuit, or whatever - strings, DC cables, or other types of cables. Regardless of what we do and plan to do, there will always be big and difficult problems. In fact, the southwestern corner of the country has one of the most powerful electrical systems on earth, an immensely powerful system that has been built up in recent years and decades. You are accustomed to a very good system here; you are not accustomed to any interference or lack of electricity because the transport system is not working. There's just so much else around the country. To be honest, it's one of Icelandic society's major projects today and it's important that this discussion penetrate the high Council. Of course, it's all connected in many ways; energy exchange, what we were discussing here, with a frame plan and the electrical energy system. I hope that as soon as we're gone, we'll begin to take the discussion of the electricity transport and the electrical power system in the country with more force and in a more complete way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, also for leaving papers here with phone numbers I'm calling you later. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I agreed very much with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator, in fact, found an amazing parallel in it. A senator said and what I've been trying to speak for today along with other cheers. Councilmen, i.e. the need for a collective view of these matters. Hv. A senator speaks of the judicial hearings we have here in our hands, of the highest level of government. Environment and resource minister, so he has the impression that he has a half pain in his hands. I wonder what. A senator believes that this complete examination of the energy environment from A to A to A that I think it is necessary to do, i.e. from the production of energy in its transport, but perhaps not least the efficiency. Hv. A senator introduced other advantages. Councilmen have done so, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, such as wind and more blows. Councilmen have given other advantages. Hv. A senator significantly spent many words on the transport system, understandable, looking at where it comes from. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that there may be a need to slow down a bit, pause, and watch the whole thing. I couldn't understand why. A senator might not be calling for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u159	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I think it's at least can be said that there is a full need to think about this carefully, what we are going to do, and how we are going to use one of our major resources in the best way possible and to maximise it for our country and nation. It's actually one of the resources that creates the competitiveness of our country, the resource we have in the electricity, and then it's the transport system, that we have a powerful system to achieve the most efficient use of energy and get the most out of it. But I just wanted to point this out. We're naturally going through a conquistador of this council. I just thought it'd be right to make that comment in the document with the phone number. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's a flaw you can see when you read between the lines and connect a few paragraphs that aren't all in the same place, but when you read the whole thing out of it. I suppose the Environment and Transport Committee will consider this and the General next in a future discussion. We only see what this therapy will be and what we end up with, what the proposal looks like in the end. This is an enormously important document, it's perfectly clear. I'm very into this plan. It's just that I'm pointing at. I'm not against this piece of paper like that or anything like that, it's just that it meets our demands on how it's being handled, how it shows up in the document. I just feel like it's a little missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u160	A respectable president. It is clear that we members of the Environment and Transport Committee are considerable work if we are designed to evaluate factors that the task force could't do, so it's just to skim up the sleeves and start work. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, perhaps returning to the basic question that is needed for activation, the need for energy. It's like the highest. The environmental minister came in on his case, some 1,400 megawatts of the colony. I believe the world has no greater electricity production than this country has. What is our real need at this point, in the months of 2017? Let's put it down for what we're going to activate, like, 1,400 megawatts. What does that count? A senator that we will use that energy? And so I continue to do this with the theme I've tried to promote in my language in all these discussions: Might it be advisable to consider that the need for these megawatts, whoever will be the final number to be settled in, what will use that energy? Energy exchange in transport, green economy and green energy and industry, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u161	V.E.G. President. Where should we use 1,400 megawatts? I think this document is a policy and a vision to the future. True, I don't think anybody in here is thinking this so that we've just got it so that already there's some need for 1,400 megawatts into the system of some companies or green companies, data plants or whatever. We're thinking long into the future, I'm looking more at it that way. I can't say, no more than other fine senators here, exactly what or whether we'll ever use these 1,400 megawatts. On the other hand, we have an enormous potential for energy, and this is one of our vast resources. Truly, the competitiveness that we gain from this resource is beyond and at national competition and all that comes with it. Green industry, natural, data plant, and so on. As I've always thought this, and there may not be a long time to go on this, it is, where do we limit our resources? In what areas? I've never seen it calculate what the data sets give us exactly, what the green industry gives us exactly, the aluminium or the silica, or what it is. These policies and forwards, we're just not beyond that. I have at least a few minutes. Never see this set on a scale that allows us to evaluate the exact means of transportation or transportation if it is going or the waterway - where we will make the best use of it. For me, this is about, as I say, that we are looking to the future. It's better to be thinking about this for a long time than we're from year to year in an effort to get some energy here, 25 megawatts on this, 50 on this and so on. We have the full vision and the way we want to watch it. This is as far as I can go.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u162	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the senator's speech. I just wanted to step aside from what he came to in his talk, which is a proper comment for professionals 3 and 4. They have not responded, and their work is not fully carried out by a project management, such as working professional groups 1 and 2. I'm saying all the time because I think I'm being careful, we should say a hyperbole, not a misunderstanding, in the case of men, and I'm not saying that. A senator has said so, but as a result, it has been brought forward in the discussion that economic influences, such as the U.S. has not been evaluated. Not all costs are right. I want to keep it up. In frame 2 the target cost of activation was estimated. This was also done in frame 3 unless Power Institute was assigned to the role of project management, which was considered a project administration to be the legal role of the Power Institute. So it was truly appreciated. So only about what it's like. A senator comes in with an answer to what might be called a question. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér view of factors that we know so little about, which are exactly economic, economic impacts, energy sales to different parties. For example, how will single activation be evaluated for long-term activities, apocalyptic workers versed hydropower workers, etc.? This makes it difficult to accurately assess the economic impact on each activation. I think it's time to keep it up. I wanted to see that economic impacts are being examined, though they can always be done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u163	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. I wanted to arrange for the discussion after reading this again today during the discussion. I liked getting that out. I agree with the highest. Environment and resource minister that it will be late to evaluate specific activation options for any particular example. This must always be an entire problem, how we stand firm. We must always be guided in the long run that we want the natural peak of community's worth of the resource to be maintained. I agree that it is harder to assess individual benefits precisely, how much is created for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u164	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the highest proposal. Environment and resource secretary on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. Understandably, a number of viewpoints have been discussed and tore up the subject. I'd like to kill on a few things to think about, and maybe more than anything else. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will discuss the matter after this discussion. First of all, I want to talk about the fact that I think it's right. A committee, to be expected to have the highest. Environmental and resource services at their meeting, in particular, ask for the fact that it has actually been presented here only in reply to the highest level. Minister, that no peace descriptions of the Preservation Table have yet to be completed, which are a 2013 reservation of protection. As shown in the case of the highest, there are explanations. The minister and the person standing here know many of them, but this is certainly a need to place both extra money and more human resources on this matter, especially because it is important to recognize the credibility of this project that the real balance of a state between protection and innovation and protection is followed by imaging. This has been the subject of only the Neonatal Party and primarily of the members of the Parliament's doubts about the specific three advantages of a novelty party. First of all, there is the Caglomeral activation. I'm not going to be special about it, but I think it's conclusive that the Committee looks at the conjunction of the Ministry's plans with the fact that it's suggested here to join a novelty party. I think that must be part of what the council considers, at least. That it is not that we lose, as it were, in a novelistic group that will then interfere with plans for a central nation. It is not as if we have no time to miss it. I'd like to remind you that there's 30 megawatts in there, that's all. It is not as if there is a difference between death and failure in any amount of energy or such. Then I'd like to mention something else that shows that Holla activation and Urrastic activation. This has been discussed primarily on the fact that the project management feels that it will not go further with this particular case and that uncertainty will not be eliminated at the level of administration carried out by the task management board, i.e. In the case of a minister, and to the task management board, this uncertainty has to be discussed in the assessments of the environmental impact of the project and the permission of the Member States, i.e. In the latter phases and then on the crime scene of the local government and the permission team. Then I'd like to mention, and that was merely discussed in the discussion of a joint proposal here in the past state and have not been able to address this discussion, the new protection laws. This is where the 2015 autumn Parliament of Nature Protection Act, No. 60/2013, who took the lead as everyone here, I'm aware of the need for a review of the case and who was tempted to make a better cross - tripolitic agreement on the case. It was managed by an environment and transport committee. There, in fact, it became known that the principles of the environment were legalized in Icelandic legislation. Among other things, it may be the most important, so - called a rule of caution involving nature's enjoyment of the doubt but perhaps beyond the fact that there is no lack of information and research to make decisions that are inadmissible to nature. Thus, lack of information is always in favor of nature at any given time. I asked about this in the discussion here at the council last year and realized that these views had not been taken into consideration at the completion of the project administration. I still think it's important. This is a similar view, i.e. the importance of this proposal and the context of it in relation to other issues under political policies, such as the central national park, which I believe has the majority of support, and so on, a recent transnational law on fundamental principles in nature protection. It would be a challenge if we were to make a decision or to conclude with a discussion about this kind of suggestion that conflicts with recent transnational legislation. I'm just asking. The Environment and Transport Committee to investigate this feature specifically, and they may be given a review of this report by the Ministry or others about it, in order to ensure that these views take hand in hand. It's been discussed a little bit about the subject itself, i.e. The tool frame plan, and people have discussed it from one side to the next. I think it's important that we maintain that a structure never intended to be content but a foundation, a common basis, and a common understanding of work. I don't think anyone ever thought that the community would be at peace with us for protection and use. That's not the way it is. It's my opinion to make that the use of natural resources is completely enough for energy generation, that's it. However, I believe that it is important that we agree on the process. And I can also disagree with the conclusion of the process, because it's our job here to deal with the outcome because otherwise the council would not be assigned to finish the case but would now be to cut the results to the project management and its conclusion would only be determined there. That's not the way it is. It's coming here, and it's a heavy duty on our shoulders. I'd like to say that in general, too. The Environment and Transport Committee that I think it is important to have that guide, in view of the 2011 legislation of legislation, which is the first motion based on undistracted law, i.e. There is no provision here, that it is important to be careful about the solidarity on which the foundation rests, and the solidarity upon which the protection laws of new ones rest, because such decisions of this sort have long future prospects. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stylist only points to the fundamental moral question whether a living generation has the authority or permission to make decisions on long - term use when there is not even a time to use one or anything. Are we the generation that accept both this license to remove the Icelandic community from the cliff in a historical economic breakdown and to deal with all its signals and also take the country just the way it does and write over it and decide what to protect and what is not to be protected? We're doing a pretty good job here, our generation. I think it's important for us to consider what that means. Therefore, I would like to say that it is a very important vision to be careful about this moral interaction with future generations. Yes, it is what sustainable development is all about, ensuring the equal status of future generations with present generations. It might also be wondered whether this situation is also about the right to decide in the way in which it should be handled or to choose to protect the environment. I'd also like to say, at last, that it may be that in some ways this frame, this basis, this legal basis, the limit of limits, is dependent because it is not particularly used for travel services, but it is also a factor that sometimes brings stress on the environment. In some areas, we see areas that have undergone a great deal of stress that can lose their values. That's another story. I expect the Environment and Transport Committee will also deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u165	A respectable president. The first discussion of this council arrangement is about to end. I want to start by thanking you for your discussion today. She's been very good. In effect, I have to say that the big words that have fallen, they only came out of the mouth of one of the senator, that a frame plan is that it is a war, not relevant in this hall today and tonight. It's been a good seminar. At least I have enjoyed listening to different angles. I can feel how the discussion will help us move on. I am very optimistic about the rest. I have full faith that the council will have every opportunity to handle this matter during its therapy. I just want to get a little closer to what we've been talking about. I think we hear less emphasis on activation, that's a good thing, and more emphasis on the fact that the electricity we're taking over the country, the small companies, the minds for based reasons and the like. I think it's very good to hear that there's an increase in discussion in that direction. Maybe there's more to this problem than we've figured out so far. This will help us to talk, moving us further and further. Yet, I'd like to say regarding the transport lines that are truly necessary to strengthen the transport network in some areas, but for whom? That's a basic question. We must not forget that we have a double system, if we can say so. We have the tensions we use for the settlements, for the general public, for a small company, and then we have a higher tension that the industry uses. Which one are we discussing, or are we discussing, sponsorship of the large system? There's a difference. Of course, the big system has certain effects on the small system as to interference and various things. I'm not going to go deep into it here. But aren't we discussing the general system? Aren't we talking about the public when we talk about people missing electricity all over the country? I think so. I feel like I hear it at councilmen. It is important that we keep in mind that 90% of the electricity is already being added to the large system. She goes to the big industry, to the industry. The annual need for systemic electricity is over 50 gigawatts per year of 75.9 megawatts, right, something like that? In comparison, the efficiency capacity for Kaldrum's granulomatous activation is less than 50,000 gigawatts, or 700 megawatts. We just need to divide this up. It's useful for the discussion. There's no point in making any more use of it. There's plenty of energy out there already. We need to keep our eyes on the protection issues involved. This is done in a practical way in the motion of a project administration that I present as a candidate. There is some balance, even though everyone will never be satisfied with his viewpoint. But we must bear in mind the concept of sustainableness and the right of future generations to determine what should continue to be done in these matters. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have this any further this time. I appreciate the discussion and wish. The Environment and Transport Committee is a success of their work with the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u166	A respectable president. It was expressed just a few minutes ago. A senator said that it was not customary to give an answer to a minister at the end of a discussion. I want to say it to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister that I am not giving this answer to her in any way, but I come up here only to promote some points. V.E.G. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson spoke extensively about the future vision and economic impact and the need for us to consider the issues of activation based on long - term views. The Middle East National Park is a long time period of action. He's really what I'd call, by permission of President, both of us. If you've observed the discussion on these matters in the past few years, not only in this country, but in the international setting of Iceland, where Iceland is raised to the clouds of this wonderful, unique, delicate, unspoiled nature on a global scale that we have and this unstealed middle-lands, then this country is our long-term thought, that's our perv and our future. That's what we need to do, if that makes people feel better about it. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier is our duty and responsibility to care for these areas. We have no right, we are not authorized to destroy them for future generations, or for the rest of Europe. This is the largest unstalled land in Europe. Thank you for the discussion. It's been really great having you guys involved. Thank you very much. Minister, I find to be especially effective as Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u167	The President reminds us that the matter here is an Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u168	I just want to thank you for the encouragement and trust. In itself, no question was addressed to me. But I agree with a number of subjects. Senator. I don't really have that much more to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u169	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to a new comprehensive guide on the EEA. The bill was also submitted to the last legislature but did not succeed. Well, it's just about remanded. The EEA's legislation went into effect on January 1, 2003, and they were added simultaneously to the creation of the EEA. The law only points to the EEA's handling of the projects that the State's Homest Protection, the State's Nature Protection and the operation of the Hunter Manager were given under more specific laws, and it does not contain any material discussion of the many and varied roles of the Agency and its projects. Therefore, the reason given by this bill is the need to set up more clearly in the EEA's overall legislation on its role and on the main tasks and responsibilities of the Agency, which are stated in various EEA special requirements. A policy review has identified the importance of this, and it is the evaluation of the Agency that the role of the EEA will be properly integrated and clearly set up in legislation on the Agency. A bill for this discussion was worked together with the EEA. At that job, there was also a difference between the two groups. look to a song about a living room set at the end of 2012. As stated in the current law, the Agency is a state-of-the-art management agency and the implementation of environmental and environmental protection. The bill is first in general about the role of the Agency, its organization and the role of cooperation and consultation. These articles will discuss key tasks and challenges handled by the EEA. It also discusses the activities of the EEA on information issues and the sources of information that the Agency has, e.g. to handle judicial hearings and administrative laws and to pay for them to be paid. The EEA has a general role in promoting clean, wholesome environments and nature protection and diversity through the aims of sustainable development. As stated in the bill, the Agency provides assistance in the preparation of laws and regulations in its field of work and the assistance of policies and decision-making in environmental and environmental protection and in international cooperation. The EEA's projects include measures in the fields of pollution, protection, public rights and curfews, protection and sustainable fishing, sustainable consumption and loyalty, chemicals, climate, air quality, water protection and information sources. With a new law on the EEA, this bill will be of the law, the aim is to integrate and explain the role of the Agency better than in existing legislation, which includes a clear review of the roles and tasks established by the EEA and which are specified in separate laws. However, the project with the bill is not to include the EEA new roles or tasks and thus does not include material refinements. It must be considered that it will facilitate government, economic, and public perspectives and will help improve environmental integration with other environmental issues. A respectable president. I've traced the main subject of this bill and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u170	Hv. President. I want to thank the Minister for the contributions of this bill. I'd kind of like to use this opportunity to describe that I am especially exemplary in bringing together a law code that is in violations throughout the museum. This is designed to make it easier for us members of Congress, economists, the public, to identify its role and purpose, to make it easier for us to overlook this category. As noted in the case of the minister, it is not a material change but a complete code of laws. I think this is a good example of the fact that in many areas you can take in fragile legislation and bring together and consider that, in the same way, you and I in our legislation are trying to publish and maybe re-enact the whole law so that you don't have to be looking for what is in the current right at any given time. I'm celebrating. I want to, just so that there is one question in my case, can we really be sure that this is merely the gathering of things into one place that is already in existence and not the transformation of material things?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u171	A respectable president. I agree with everything that came out of the question. Senator. This is precisely how many laws are being taken into one total law to increase transparency, in order to make it easier for the public and citizens to recognize the role of this institution, since it plays a very important role. So I answer the question: Yes, it's the right thing to do, it's not being changed or added or anything like that about the role of the Agency or anything like that. It is only moving what has been in tapeworms all over the swindles in a number of layers together under one hat, as indicated by the Kingdom Accounting Programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u172	Hv. President. Thanks for the answer. I'm not going to have a lot of suspense about this, but I just want to encourage the Minister and other Ministers and all of us here to consider just looking for places where similar methods can be used. I think it's a good example.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u173	A respectable president. I particularly thank the Minister for giving us on the Environment and Transport Committee a project to work on. It's good to be able to work on good things. Overall, I think it would be wise to add total legislation to the EEA. I'd like to ask the Minister a little bit on the budget. This was shown in the case of a minister, and we answered him. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said that this is actually just another law that was being collected and placed in one place. The report says, with the permission of the president: Then the National Review has pointed out that the Ministry needs to assist when requesting needed action on the environment, such as contributing to the security of the Agency. Then, by permission of the president, an assessment of the effects of this bill states: ▪ The standard of assessment of total costs is to be made by law to include no changes in the EEA's income or financial resources, no costs or increased annual expenses for the state funds where there is no change in income stocks or the Agency's current management costs, not due to changes in the provisional rights, because of housing or stock costs, structural change or changes in staff. I'd like to have a word with the Minister about this. Is there any comment on the need to provide sufficient support to the Agency if there is not an increase in funding in the bill? Or do I really get it all wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u174	Thanks for the answer. It is true that there is no increase in funding in this bill. They need to be reviewed in a comprehensive context of budgets, government laws, these three-year plans and other long-term long-term programmes. I'm gonna do what. A senator would agree that the knots really need to be arranged. That's the next thing to do, if I can say so. First there is one legal code, and it is to be absolutely clear that the EEA has the budget that the Agency needs to perform the enormously important role it has in our society on the issue of loyalty, pollution control, nature protection, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u175	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It will not be up to me to give support to the growing environmental capital. On the other hand, I have to admit that there is a certain warning light in my mind when we are not discussing any of the above. A minister earlier stated that it was the next step in the report. It's just being proud that this will not bring any expense. The next sentence is from what I read earlier, with the permission of a president: Therefore, from the above, it can be assumed that the contribution of the State Fund will remain unchanged if the bill is accepted. It's gotta be said to the top right now. When it comes to providing funds that are missing in many areas, a government does not necessarily run the race. It has not been at the top of her list of priorities to raise the financial expenses, to say the least. That's why I'm celebrating the ultimate. The minister said in his first reply and will only bring it to the highest level. Ministers when we start dealing with funds and funding, that it not be as the report says, that the product of the state funds remains unchanged. All of our fine plans for climate, when it comes to environmental and all that we have been discussing during the past few days and considerably today, are, of course, wondering that governments are ready to place more money in the seminar. That's why I welcome the words of the highest. The minister of the environment, who was mentioned in the answer, even though I had wanted to see it better in the report and at least not to mention that this would have no effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u176	A respectable president. I may not have answered clearly enough earlier. So, the change here, when it's being done to bring this law that's been broken and passed all over into a single law book, will not increase the spending of the state funds. That's what we're talking about in the report. This change does not have a costly effect. However, the whole operation is a little different. Of course, this requires effort. However, there may be other discussions, and it does not directly apply to the fact that these laws are being collected and put together in a single code of laws. It's my ministry, it's me who fights for the Agency to get enough funding to do his job well. That's my cup. I'll hold him up. However, it does not directly have to do with these laws. But I'll take the word. A senator who encouraged that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u177	A respectable president. There is considerable experience on the EEA. Thank you very much. Minister of the environment for this brilliant presentation before the bill. It is clear that there is a need to strengthen and coordinate the legal environment of this institution; of course, it is very important. This bill is carefully processed, there is no need for self - examination, and no comment is made on individual articles here. I've had experience with the Bureau myself, but it's not much, but it's tiny, if we put it that way. I've always thought of this institution as a subversive, and it'll probably be after this legal procedure compared to the cost analysis. This should not mean that there are any expenses involved. But I truly agree with that word, both of them. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér and the highest. Environment Minister, that it is very important that funds are made for this operation, for the projects are undeniably numerous when combined with high monitoring responsibilities and wide recordings, information obligations, and a variety of projects and planning. We have long pondered the number of institutions and overlapal roles of the Republic Institute and down to our day. It's been like that. I know of the institutions I've been working on that evolution has provided its own laws, that have developed institutions, they've become quite numerous in this small society, fueled by need. Since then, efficiency and efficiency have been viewed in a collective way. In fact, the body of the Agency is quite ornamental and perhaps unnecessaryly many institutions on the site of construction, research, information fields, etc., but it does not prevent the time for this bill to be completed which explains the status and activities of the EEA. I'm going to use the last few minutes to focus my eyes on the founder that I so call, and I'm going to look at the institutions, if you look at each institution. It's a big bond if we take it as a whole, but the institutions themselves are often subversive and financed. I give up a discussion because this phenomenon has been called a resource agency, tore it up briefly, this is my personal opinion, I take it out, and came from Sveinn Runólfsson, a former geographer. He gave a 2015 memo to the Environment and Resource Ministry, which I intend to only testify to, by permission of the President: It is designed to create a resource institution. It will become a knowledge, construction and services in this field, i.e. The protection and restoration of our country's resources - this is a dry land agency - good, soil, freshwater, nature, as well as the management of important areas owned by the State. Then it says: ▪ It moves all land - healing materials from the State's economy that can be added to the protection and restoration of ecosystems, forestry and national forests from the State's forestry, national deforestation projects, Hiklu forests, the issues of Veterans Institute, the natural protection factor currently developed in the EEA's field of plant protection, landscape protection, biodiversity and so forth. Under it would also hear the operation of national parks, including the Lake Earth's national parks. More important, in the new institution, it would be as much as any of the issues involved in the protection of tourism, tourism, and the pressures of tourism, and extracurricular work on correcting what has gone wrong. In this case, some of the EEA's activities are being transferred along with several other institutions into a new agency. It comes from Scotland in many ways, perhaps to some extent from Norway. The question is, would we not be promoting the necessary work so that there will be self-sustaining activity in so many areas? I want to take this opportunity and put this idea on the float. But, as mentioned earlier, of course, I support the arrangement of referring to this excellent bill. Investigated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u178	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment and resource minister for its input and this presentation on the bill for the Agency's legislation. I believe it is very important that we simplify and make the environment that the EEA and subsidiary have prepared more efficient. When you look at the bill, you will find that there are multiple roles, the role that the EEA plays, and will have. The primary role is to promote clean, wholesome environments and to work on nature's protection and diversity. The EEA shall be a consultant for a minister of environmental matters according to the legal bill available here for the treatment of Congress. The EEA will also contribute to natural protection by means of specific measures and to the protection of the biological diversity of Iceland. Then comes a sentence in the text that especially attracted my attention, given the motive, which says that the Agency should interrupt the spread of invasive species. That's when I can think of the system we're fighting all over the country. Unlike the lice, which also spreads abroad in many parts of the earth, it leaves nitrogen in the soil, which is then a foundation for other vegetation, but the system kills everything underneath. In view of this role and when discussing funding for this institution, there is a great need for action to wipe out this vessel that crawls around the country. As I say, this would be all right in itself because I've been around him a lot and I think that this most beautiful plant while it is in blossom, but not all the gold that glows or beauty is in the face because when you look under it, the whole vegetation is dead. I recommend that we consider measures to curb the spread of the system. We also see him crawling over the land and elsewhere and naturally into the forestes, but I am quite concerned about the way he crawls across the land. The EEA also has the responsibility to increase the awareness of the purpose of nature protection and the uniqueness of peaceful areas and the importance of being tested in nature. It also has a work cycle to keep track of greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the air quality that meets both international and Icelandic demands. Of course, the water quality and quality of the ocean are the same, so the function of the EEA is very extensive and that of its subsets. The EEA is responsible for sustainable development and guidance on green lifestyles, and emissions of pollutants, waste and harmful substances, and prevention of their impacts on the environment and human health under the supervision and control of the EEA. It is also stated that the EEA should regularly consult and conduct a meeting with health committees all over the country, although it does not have the authority over them in the territory of rural society, rather than provide instruction and instruction for these committees. I think it's very important that this bill is made up and that it then applies to the environment and transport committee. I think it will strengthen the role of the EEA and its domain and responsibility. As shown in the report, there is no special reason to evaluate harmonization in terms of constitution and international commitment, and so has the natural cost of the State by this law bill. Finally, I want to point out that the EEA operates in accordance with a number of special requirements, as shown on page 18. 8 on the bill. There I would especially like to point out, because there's been a lot of publicity in the news now, that under the law of No. 97/2004, for the protection of Lake Myy and Laxár, in the southern part of the country. I'm only close to the role of the EEA but it's also very good for the public to realize what it means and how important this bill is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u179	A respectable president. As I have only come into the past in my counter-reguage, I believe I'd like to put laws on the EEA and coordinate laws and regulations relevant for the Agency. However, I believe that there is a need to consider the role and circumstances of the EEA, in fact, always but perhaps especially when we're changing or making laws about it. As shown in this bill for law, it was submitted to the 145th legislature but was not completed, but is now almost unchanged. True, there are signs in several places that have been changed slightly and taken into consideration some comments, but a whole of them are virtually unchanged, as the report says. I wondered, " Is it not unfortunate that the matter was not further handled and that it was extended? ' For example, no part of the bill refers to the climate Council as the highest level. However, the Environment and Resource Minister has foretold the establishment, or the cooperation of the Council with the EEA. 13th. The bill says about climate matters, with the permission of a president: The EEA oversees and is responsible for the provision of Iceland's emissions of greenhouse gas, is responsible for the mobilising commercial systems of the EU, and will decide on the release. In answer to the highest. Minister to ask why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, of the Council of Climates, said, with the permission of a president: ▪ The secretary has the intention of managing key projects on the implementation of the Paris Convention and the shape of government policy in the future, and the responsibility to shape long - term vision of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions up to 2050 and to assess the possibility of Iceland reaching out for the next decades and what it takes. It kind of calls for the two things to talk and to work together. That's why I'd have thought there would have to be some mention of the proposed climatic Council in this. Then there may be something that we will consider in due time. I only made money in my resistance earlier. It's not that, as I only came into the world, you are only careful when it comes to providing more money for the environment or not in general. This is the day when peace cases have been referred to, as it were, in which they did not walk or run. I've been quoting the CDC's review of the bill when it was submitted in its own time, at the 145th legislature, by permission of presidents: This does not change the fact that the EEA does not appear to be equipped to deal with natural protection, including non-authority issues, while there is no increasing funding coming from the budget and there is no real desire to deal with the problems nature protection is having to deal with within the Agency, which includes almost complete destruction in the preparation of peace statements. Such concerns are quite serious, and some of these may be a mental evaluation. However, the lack of success in terms of peace is not foreordained, it is simply that way. We talked about it here, and the highest. A minister entered it, in the discussion of a frame plan earlier today. So you are quite concerned that enough money will not follow through. Of course, there's a code of laws being cleaned up, defined, and sharpened, and I don't know what. However, it would have been in the palm of the hands to proclaim increased activity, increased activity, in the press report at the highest level. Minister when she spoke for the bill. I didn't hear it until it was applied especially in terms of finance. When it comes to the protection that I quoted earlier, her review, again, I wondered if this bill had been almost the same since the last council. Granted, the review of nature protection, which was made only to a small extent during the last bill, is due to its comment by Land Protection in priming stages. But now this bill says, by permission of the President: A close review of the bill came from Land Protection and turns it to nature protection. It says that the board of directors rejoices with a review of the EEA law, but it is highly regarded as far from the fact that the Bars that were written will solve the problems that have long been faced with environmental management and that the Community would establish unsatisfactory conditions on that basis. The review says that the Management Board of Environmental Protection believes that national legislation on the EEA should be proposed until nature protection has been established in the establishment of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The Ministry feels that it is clear that much of the information given in the national review is not part of this bill. The objective of the bill is to establish one law on the EEA's present role in accordance with the specifications of the Agency. However, the purpose is not to suggest changes in the Ministry's institutions or to change the laws on nature protection. Since the main tips of Land Guard are primarily on matters that do not involve the subject of the bill, changes in the subject's bill were not made because of them. However, the Ministry will take note of the Environmental Protection Agency's comments regarding other work in the field of nature protection. That it's not the purpose now to contribute neither to founded structure nor to change the laws on nature protection makes me wonder if, as I say, it would have been a plan not to put the bill on the same page since the last council, but to go to that job. It is now that if the law is set, a frame is pulled around a particular operation, then the next step is not necessarily to change them or the environment in which the Agency operates. I'm afraid a little bit that this means drawing up a framework on the EEA's activities that will block this review that I think it's necessary to go into. On the other hand, I have to commend what's done well, you have to always do the same, because the report says that the Ministry will examine these tips in connection with other nature protection jobs. It would be happy, then, that those comments will be recorded and that this bill does not mean an end to the establishment structure, this does not mean that the law that we now set will stand, well, for all eternity may be full of deep and dramatic, too deep in the year, so that it will bring an end to what needs to be done, because I think we are at a particular milestone and need to reevaluate our whole organization. We need to revise the administrations from A to O. We need to rethink things in this room. I've wondered if a climate committee should be one of the General Committees. I've got some ideas and I'm ready to look at anything in it. These are the major projects in the coming years, such as the highest. The secretary of the environment has chosen himself. In this regard, I find Land Protector's comments to be rather quick to write. In his review of the bill when it was submitted last, I talk here about two articles of the 7th and 8th. The bill, says by permission of the President: Of course, it is a celebration of national protection, but it seems absurd that these two laws have no significant effect on the problems nature protection is facing under the EEA's care. This problem has not only been identified by Land Protection but is pointed out in the 2006 Commission, which can be counted as one of the main reasons for the contributions of the bill, as well as the three reports followed by this assessment, 2009, 2011 and 2013, and was torn by Land Protection in the review of the bill during the preparatory period of the bill. In other words, I'm worried that we're putting in almost the same bill, which, in its time, was given some conflicting reviews, to say the least. And that we, as I said earlier, are creating a environmental environment environment, about nature protection, about all the important things here to hear, that might be too important when it is needed to revise all of this. It says that the review of the Land Protector does not really include the subject of the bill, but the review of Land Protection is primarily going into the general environment of nature protection. And what's one of the EEA's main projects under these laws? Yes, nature protection and environmental responsibility. The EEA shall contribute to the protection of the natural world by means of a targeted protection programme. So I think it's good to clean up the library. It is always good to clean up, whether in a home or in a law museum. But I'm worried that with this, we might be putting too much emphasis on the environment that needs change. That's when I'm really worried about financing. I told him earlier, in general, that you were so burned because you were in a bad way getting money for the environment. This has been true for many years. But I have to say, I'm special about myself in that field when it's time to get to the highest level. Government. I have felt that it is the policy of this government to turn into nothing from the budget set by the last government. It doesn't seem to interfere with the tax system the last government drew up. It seems that we have achieved perfection in the sense of present governmental classes. I'm much worried about holding the top. The minister of money on the torture stakes will be fully stuck, the fist fully shaken, when it is time to distribute the necessary funds to these matters. I declared myself here prepared to be an associate of the highest rank. Minister of the environment when it came to that battle. That offer still stands. I trust that soon there will be a meeting at the Ministry on how my energy in that fight will be best spent. But--in the morning, I'll be early--until, as I say, I think this particular is necessary, but I think we need to be on guard that it is not establishing a system that important stakeholders believe is not good enough as it is. [[Take it up in the morning.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-07-40.u180	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. Environment and resource secretary present a whole law code on the EEA. In fact, I have to admit that I share some concerns. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. The story of this institution has lasted a long time. It's a 14-year-old institution. Its laws were set on May 15, 2002, and perhaps they are a typical child of their time. This is a cognition of laws from a variety of sources where there's little about beautiful posings, that may not be the purpose of a law, but as a government reexamination of a problem to them, it makes assessments of the various institutions of the state. There is no exception to the EEA. In 2006 a report published by the National Review Board entitled Environment Agency - Management Board. In fact, that report did not reject the holiday book then, but I think it was fine. It showed that laws that would have to be a complete unit for determining the role of the Agency and its tasks. When this was published for the first time, there were 3,100 songs that applied to her work and that still apply, for the currently proposed bill has not yet come into effect. This took place rather little than in 2010, it was called the 2006 Follow-up of Our Kingdom Review. It tells us that there was nothing in the EEA's legal environment. In 2011, the third report, an indication from the National Review: Interpretation. The Agency's work needs to be reviewed by legislation. In 2014, the EEA asks the Environment and Resource Ministry if there is no right to do something. Yes, they're gonna appoint a team, they'll be appointed in February 2014, and they're going to win a bill for law. Now I don't know if there's a bill here based on their work group, it doesn't matter everything. The message of my case here is simply that they are now the highest authority. Ministers have certainly failed to succeed. It is, in fact, shameful that it takes 14 years after this institution was set up to do something about it, 11 years after it was first brought to Kingdom Accounting with a suggestion that there may now be a considerable change and a better course. It's really crazy. It may be said that this is not the right scene to pass judgment on former stewards, since they cannot carry their hand in front of their heads. A respectable president. I must say that my scandal over this tragic process, this sad story. We have a similar experience in the Food Institute. I wondered, " Is my situation with other government institutions similar, whether these laws are different? ' I prefer not to extend this evening's meeting any more than the word, and I would like to, in fact, eventually add my thanks to the highest degree. Ministers for assaulting this operation.
