ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2018. This bill suggests a change of several laws according to the criteria of the bill for the budget for the next year. The bill also gives some suggestions that require changes to be approved before the year. The details of the bill are of many ways and influence both the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things, but the review is not necessarily in the order that is found in the bill itself. First capital tax. It is suggested that capital taxes rise by two percentage points, or from 20% to 22%. The aim of this increase is to justify income taxation, regardless of where it comes from, by reducing the share of the income tax pay and on the other hand, without paying interest, tax payments over wages, pensions, and general income. At the same time, a review of tax stocks is made of fiscal taxes, including interest benefits. Today, however, interest revenues are below 125,000. This year the budget-to-be-registered tax (s). That should be kept in mind. It is important to note, then, that on this change, a tax pool for profit will be combined with limited responsibilities and interest to owners of 37.6% compared to 36% in the current law. This should minimise the tendency of developing a private partner around its own business for tax purposes, which is presented in the form of an opportunity for remuneration and interest. The effects of the rise are estimated to be 1.6 billion. By 2018, the number is increasing to 2.6 billion. in 2019 C.E. The explanation is that capital tax on interest and interest is collected in place of payment, while the use of other capital revenues, such as sales and rent income, is being paid in June 2018 at the pressures of public pay on individuals. So when I say that the income is increasing, the tax is actually fully valid, if it is approved for years, but the income is increasing if we just look at the budget and business of each year, it does not come into force until after-testation because of the fact that we can't replace all the income from this tax. According to the Ministry's analysis of the financial income of individuals on the basis of income, the impact of the increase will largely be on those with the highest income, or the tenth part of the income, resulting in a measure of income balance and more equality in the income tax system. It's time for the rise in carbon tax. The bill suggests a 50% rise in carbon costs as the first step in the expected climate change action programme, but it is expected that the levels will increase when the strategy is implemented. At the same time, the aim is to reduce the number of reserves from currency in the form of a carbon tax. The main objective of the prospective action programme is to encourage both households and companies to reduce energy exchange and energy efficiency emissions. This increase is expected to increase the income of the state's budget by 2 billion dollars. The year 2018, suggested at the beginning of 2018. This change results in an increase in gas sales by 1.8% and diesel by 2%. The effect on the index of consumer prices is then assessed by 0.03% for an increase. Third, here's the price update for a quarter tax and pay. It can be remembered that a few years ago, a government signed a contract with the labour market that no centenarian fees should be raised in that terms of terms beyond the prices of the Federal Bank. In recent years these taxes have not changed, but if they develop a long period of these taxes, it is clear that they are losing value. Here's the usual way to let those taxes go. That is why the bill suggests a 2% rise in the so - called crescent tax and fees in accordance with the prices of the bill. This, based on the estimated 12 months change in index price over 2017. This is a general and special charge for fuel, an oil tax, a general and a special mile tax, a car charge, a fee for the elderly, a special price for the state radio and the price of alcohol and tobacco. This increase is expected to bring up a total total of 1.3 billion dollars. every year including the side effects on sumy tax. The effect on the index price is estimated to be 0.04%. On the other hand, it could be said that if the taxpayer's price was put in place, he would be assigned to a tax deduction. But here it is noted that it adds an additional 1.3 billion to ensure that these taxes are in line with prices. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to go over the budget of the elderly and the radio fees. As was attributed to the trace, a 2% increase in pay paid for the elderly is put in line with the prices of the donor. According to this, $1175 will be paid. per currency of public stress pay in 2018 due to income 2017. It is estimated that the increase will bring up the state budget by 50 million. K. extra revenues a year. A special price for State Radio leaving 16800. of 17,100 bucks. In the shape of changing prices. The estimated additional income is about 85 million. K. Child support and interest improvements. There is an 8.5% increase in the control height of paediatric patients and a 7.4% increase in the income limitation limit in the bill. It is carried out during the pressures of public pay in 2018. This means that the total rate of children up to 10% will be higher next year as compared to the current year. This is expected to be a total of 10.5 billion dollars. in 2018 or similar to what is expected in the budget of 2018,022. Estimated emissions this year, over the course of the current year, are 9.5 and 9.6 billion. Then the calculation rules for growth reform will remain unchanged from this year on to the next. On the basis of these forewords, costs for interest are estimated at 4 billion dollars. in 2018 compared to 4.5 billion this year. The dignity of taxation due to electrical, hydrogen, and connecting automobiles is next. A temporary law on cost-employment taxes requires permission to cancel a merit tax or to include the exception, the sum of the sum of the sum of the imports and the tax-related sales of electricity, hydrogen, or linkage vehicles to the specific requirements of the finished. The original purpose was to apply only in 2013. Since then, the duration has been extended about one year at a time. This short period of time has been criticized, including because of the uncertainty he creates. Thus, the bill's proposal is that the indiscriminate value is three years, thus falling to the end of 2020. It is similar between electrical vehicles and a motor vehicle attached to both electrical vehicles that are kept on the battery, and it is appropriate to aim for loss of performance after 10,000 electric vehicles and 10,000 motor vehicle vehicles have been recorded on the road record. That would include a total of 8.8% of the fleet's cars by the end of 2016. The continuing increase in the rate of the vehicle link should support the development of already started loading wood. In accordance with this, it is suggested that after reporting 10,000 automobiles for the price of a car of hydrogen, it may be disintegrated. Although the number of cars mentioned above will not be reached at the end of 2020, the appeal will fall, and their taxation will depend on other conditions of worth taxation after unless the Council decides otherwise when it has happened in the past few years. I believe that members of Congress and everyone in the United States are well aware that we are at a turning point in these matters. There are a lot of changes in the production of cars and new machines, new technologies blowing up. These elements have been designed to encourage the import and change of these materials, but in time we have to decide when a new system will be started. Here we are in a specific intersecting situation, but there is evidence that the environment has been critical of only one year's time in recent years. That's why I think it's a great improvement to make a decision here to extend these coincidences for three years. But we will continue to appreciate these remuneration systems, which are somewhat complex. It is important to consider that the fuel costs and then these car import fees are compatible. This shift I've been tracking is believed to reduce the income of the state's budget by 2 billion dollars. In 2018, compared with the collapse of infallibility. But if we compare ourselves in 2017, our income will not decrease because we are really just extending the same pleasure. If we view the current law as a year's failure, this decision is to reduce the income by about 2 billion next year. It is good to bear in mind that it is the scope of this incarnation and that it would grow in the years ahead. Next time, I'm going to go over the product of automobiles designed to rent from rentals. In 2015, the General Assembly agreed that a tax returns to the import of rental cars from 2018. This was approved in 2015. The reason was complex, including the argument that the arrangement reduces the activity of carbon dioxide emissions and has an undesirable effect on the residual vehicle market. However, the bill suggests that we do this in two steps so that the limit of the appeal will be reduced from 500,000 k. of 250,000. for the next year, then at the end of the next year, all the way down to the end of the year. If this proposal is approved, it may lead to 1.5 billion dollars. reduction in the income of the state's funds to the rest of the way. Next, I'm going to break free from alcohol abuse. On the basis of the law on the price of alcohol and tobacco, there are other sources. some of the state's top institutions were cut off from drinking alcohol charge for buying alcohol. Such nonprofit drinking involves an inference that could be equaled to the financial resources of a government fund or a tax service. This release has already been reported to be removed by the executives of the established organisation, and it is proposed according to this announcement. However, the amount of total drinking charge to all the institutions, including schemes that had been used in the drain, could be specifically summed up here. The conclusion was that this was about 10.5 million a year. It seems normal to simply drop this beauty, only under the general authority of the institutions, to pay for alcohol, as everyone else in this country does. Next, the budget is due to the financial cost of the F.O.R. Substantial changes in the share of monitoring fees are made in accordance with the payment of costs for official monitoring of financial activity. These changes reflect a quantity of an estimated $2.3 billion. The total budget of the FEC is expected to be 2.4 billion, while other income is expected to be 56.4 billion. K. In the event of a reimbursement and return therapy of financial and stock markets introduced into the Icelandic law in the months to come, a special monitoring fee will be due to that of only 50 million. K. This is how the Agency's total budget will be estimated to be 17.2 billion. K. ... morethanatalk of earnings. This angle is intended to be met by a reduction in the Agency's own budget of 116 million. K. At the end of 2018, or about 4.9% of the next year's expected check-up fee, as per the legislation on the disposition of management and loss of management. The changes taken into account by the Management Board's management plan are expected not to affect the survival of the State Fund. Then there is payment on the charge of a credit agent. It is suggested that the current rate of cost on the charge of a credit agent will be 0.00888%, a reduction from this year on. The Act on Payment stipulates taking into account the management or management loss of the function of an agent's agent to determine the amount of pay for the next calendar year. The innuendo income of the cost is estimated to be 277 billion. K. In 2018, there have been some 360 million. K. This year. Then it's a special vacation goal for professional pensioners. Changing the social security law and other laws in 2016 included this change. As a result of social security and social security systems, all special vacation limits due to single species were taken away. Instead, they had one general budget of $25,000. This is true of all the incomes of a pensioner regardless of their type. After the accordion of the law, this change in employment, as well as the demand of the stakeholders of the elderly and other bodies to retake a special holiday target for the senior employees, which is in addition to the common pay market. It is unmistakably that continuing work after the age of sensibilities adds to the prospect of improving the elderly, especially those with the lowest income and including the lowest pension income. Therefore, it is suggested that sensibilities be held at 100,000 credits. a special vacation market for a month's employment but also for the payment of household responsibilities paid for those who have only a home to live with. It is estimated that this change may increase the pay of the state fund by approximately 1.1 billion k. every year. I would like to say briefly about this change that it cannot be overlooked, for it takes the nature of the situation primarily and only to those on other levels, who have the ability to pursue employment. Of course, it is not so with all those who have little to play each month but who are considered to be a group of albinos that they have the circumstances or the ability to go to the job market. This should not prevent those who have the ability to improve their profits by making a living. Still, I mention it because we have limited resources. When we make a decision regarding their arrangements, priorities are needed. Here's that over 1 billion bucks. Set priorities for the eligible group of people for employment. Of the billion, none of these go to those who do not have physical ability, spiritual strength, or the top circumstances in order to improve their quality of life by earning a living. However, like everyone under the social security system, that group has benefited from the adjustment referred to here. That's what I allow myself to refer to an answer that came to the Generals for an inquiry from what happened. paritaprevir Oir Björn Kárason earlier this year, which shows how much changes are made to the social security system that has recently been made to all revenues. The work continues to improve the system, doing it fair and just. In this discussion, I have noticed that many of these have been referred to earlier income markets for employment. I don't think it's a fair or normal comparison because that system was simply completely different, and many of the pieces that didn't come into the database that is behind this vacation target. You can't take off individual components from the old system and compare with the new system saying: The old holiday target was about 108,000 bucks. Which is higher than this holiday goal. It was simply a vacation goal for a whole other system. That's what I wanted to do. But there is no doubt that any who gain improvement from the social security system, pensioners, and others, are better along the changing and even better after that change, if it is a law, than in the earlier system. Next, I'm going to step up the cost of nurses and the cost of home participation. There are two preliminary regulations in the law on the affairs of the elderly that are proposed here to be extended. If the bill is legal, the government budget will increase by 200 billion. K. We also have a set of regulations in this bill on the interaction between the disability pay of social security and pension funds. It is also extending provisional measures to help prevent the beginning of the rise of these money - change increases in the next year. It would still have diminished the terms of those under here. Without this extension, we would have reduced our payments by 1 billion, which is prevented by the extension of the law. The workforce is also on the agenda. Job drivers and those who pursue their own business, pension funds, and the state are streaming to the business of recycling funds by paying 0.13% of the stocks of pension paid under the law on the insurance of pension rights and pension expenditures. Furthermore, the law allows the State's contribution to be part of the currency of an insurance bill. It is known that the Agency's staff remuneration fund, which is the only active employment reimbursement fund, did not require so much money for the operation and therefore had been made a contract between the state and the labour markets of employers and those who are engaged in independent activities along with a pension fund of 0.10% instead of 0.13% of the currency for 2016 and 2017. It suggests an extension of regulations for temporary work-replacement laws and work responsoring funds and insurance laws requiring that employment reimbursers do not receive money from public security fees in 2018. A similar law has been applied for 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. Still, the total budget remains to be estimated for the employment and pension funds, or those of 0.10%. At the same time, it is assumed that agreements between financial and economic ministers and social and social rights minister will be made and that the work programme will be adjusted in agreement and that by 2018 the budget will be made up for financial contributions. Then there is a contribution to the National Church and the Christian Fund. It is suggested that the State Fund commitment in 2018 to the National Church under a special agreement of state and church will rise by 37.1 billion. K. from the budgets of the current year. At the same time, the contribution of the State Fund to the Christian Fund is expected to increase by 1.7 million. K. next year. In terms of application costs, fixed dollar figures are expected to increase from 999 k. a month at 931k. by 2018. The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to an estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older as well as an increasing number of individuals. But now, as in budgets for the current year, with a change in parish fees laws, it is expected to place a budget for parishes. The budget bill expects a total of 3,256 billion. K. The contribution to the terms of application fees should be taken into account in terms of the general terms of the bill, accounting for an overall increase in the rate of application from the 2017 budget, with a minimum of 42 million. K. The next step is to related greenhouse gas emissions. It is assumed that the amount of emissions due to each ton of related emissions will be reduced from 968 k. in 627, consistent with the changes in the average EU emissions prices, this year's budget. This will have little effect on the income of the state fund. Next is the Constitution of the Foreign Institute. It is presented here in accordance with the laws on the extra income of the state's budget, but the price has remained unchanged since 2009. It is important to change the current currency in accordance with the development of index consumer prices from 2009 to July 2017, as well as that is not consistent with the new alien law that went into effect at the beginning of 2017. The laws concerning foreigners included an overall review of older law on foreigners. At that time, some of the laws of the older law fell away or were changed. When it comes to the law on the extra income of the state's funds, there are now reimbursements for no longer exist or their vows have been changed. Thus, in accordance with new laws on foreigners, it is considered right to remove the extra income laws that are no longer applicable, along with reference to them, and to adapt the requirements needed to make a new name on the given licenses. The change does not affect the income of the state's wealth. Next, I'd like to mention that there are changes in income tax laws following the approval of the Generalist, who concluded that the financial and economic release of charges on charges on the grounds that income tax laws are removed aside from the general legal lawsuits of government law would not be in accordance with the law. In this light, the bill suggests that the decision of the head of the head of the tax may be made to fire to the head tax committee in accordance with legal requirements for the head tax committee. This will put in place a state-of-the-state report as it is called, cover-up. There is a law on the obligation of maternal society in an overall set of households in other countries to report a state-of-the-count report to the national taxpayer with information on income and taxes in countries where communities within the total complex have domesticity. These data provide a basis for evaluation of the interaction within the kit. The current requirement means that the end of each calendar year should be due after the account year, but in the OECD guidelines, the divorce rate should be considered no later than 12 months from the end of the account year. Here the change of the provision is being made to meet indications regarding this discrepancy. An extension is next with me, on the temporary deadline of the work group designed to shape the recommendations on the authority's access to the processing of personal information. I believe this council was involved in changing the law and asking for this proposal. It is suggested that the work group designed to shape these suggestions will be provided for an additional deadline or until the end of 2018. In this case the introduction of the EU Personal Protection Agency should be complete. So here is the sunset sun code for telecommunications funds found in the bill and the sunset rules set out in the year 2022. I've been tracking the bill's suggestions here. They are varied and have different effects on the income and the pay side. The same can be said of their effect on financial resources, prices, and financial resources. It is estimated that the tax-change proposal for the bill will increase the pay of the state's budget by nearly 1.5 billion dollars. in 2018. The increase in capital taxes will affect household income dispositions to decrease. The same can be said for carbon bills, which can be expected to increase fuel prices and the index price by 0.03%. In this case, the impact of the rise in Cronus Numbers is estimated to be 0.04% in the index price of consumption. Thus, the combined effect of the bill's tax proposals on provisions could be close to 0.1%. On the other hand, if you look at the proposed bill that affects the repercussions, you should refer to the three that directly influence tax payments for households, a special increase in job income markets in the elderly, increase in child size, and decrease in interest of interest. [[The president calls.]] Their combined effect on disposition is 1.5 billion. to increase. Then I'd like to finally draw attention to the increase in the rate paid for the budget adopted here in spring. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] To this end, I suggest that the bill be followed by the discussion referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to financing tax. In recent years capital gains have grown very much and have increased more than their pay. As an example in 2012●2016, capital gains have increased by 58% while wages at the same time only by 24% and evidence of an even greater increase in 2017. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that this small change in the capital tax will prevent those who are the richest, those who have the most capital income tax, from taking advantage of tax profits, that is, not paying the pay tax from one high income, but taking out the money. Will not the taxes still be very much for the richest, since the difference between the top income tax level and this increase is 8.64 percentage points, but the change is only 0.66 percentage points higher than the lower income tax level? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u3	A respectable president. I think if there's anything, we're trying to cut back on one tax and get into another. It seems to me that for a long, long time, the vast majority are such the difference that it would not be worth trying to direct the income through a private partner, for example. Then, too, it is to believe that a large proportion of money earners do not really produce a way of choosing to take it out in some way as wages. The growing income of the GDP is evidence that the economy is taking over, that's getting bigger. That is why in the present situation, it is important that government funds are making good ends, as we are assuming both in the budget and in financial policy because tax collectors like these are quick to disappear if the rise is stopped and the market is cooling off. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u4	Mr. President. An answer is not paid by capital companies. As members of the county government, we have seen how to use the tax economy by fleeing to the capital and money and paying less money from the Buddies. You need to strengthen the income stock of your rural society. Why not give an answer also over capital gains, including increasing justice and reasonableness? Of course, rural society needs to see the children of those who pay a lot of money and a lot of money money for high schools and schools, etc. This is what leads people in the villages across a country where they know and know these things. Would it not be better in this situation to make an answer to capital income that would not be, the richest, taking advantage of the relationship between income tax and capital tax money for profit and paying less money to the community than making more money themselves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u5	A respectable president. It's a bit of a tricky talk, especially if you're going to try to take it out in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u6	One.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u7	or one minute as I have here from playing. It is certain that we have already greatly reduced our motivation to establish a partner for some kind of work. I've been through it a little here today. We have even. Asking ourselves, " Should I manage to manage my own money at home? ' Whether this is possible in order to achieve this will continue to be considered. That obligation is already in place. The calculated pay will never be given to those who are managing their money unless they are actually doing so, e.g. If they have committed this to any third person, you cannot do this to them by recalculation for nonprofit jobs. So I'm thinking that we have this rise in the capital tax and the changes we've made in recent years so greatly reduced the impulse to go in there, from the income taxation system to the private partner tax environment, that this should not be of great concern. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, the debate on the dissociation of farms with the rural communities is a different matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only into the extension of preliminary rules. There's two people I've noticed. Other concerns about interaction, the highest. A minister briefly crossed, in regard to payment for disability. The others are concerned with the provisional level of disability that remains for a period of time. I know that this is a major concern for people every year. They want to know for sure if this is going to stay. Depending on whether or not this will continue, there is a significant difference between people's circumstances. So I just ask the simple question, Why isn't this done permanently? What is needed to keep this uncertainty out of the picture for this group that uses these systems and needs these rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u9	A respectable president. I think I know correctly that these preliminary regulations were introduced into laws as temporary resources to improve the quality of these groups in their time. This may have been a more narrow situation in the state of the world than we live today. And we've been potentially involved in making a decision every year regarding the extension. However, there are other underlying factors, e.g. for this interaction which should be considered. I'm just gonna let myself agree with that. A senator that it's bad that we're at the end of each year extending year after year, as I've traced, a unique provisional principle. That's what we're talking about, like other options we're extending with this bill. I'll take it into consideration if it's not possible to get out of this, what should we say, compulsive behavior.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for taking that into consideration. I think it's very important. In that case, I'm going to throw myself on another question that concerns the fairmark of pension for employment. There's a hundred up. K. A income-free goal for a job. The cost of this is 1.1 billion, which is in relation to the budget and, of course, in relation to the seminary, is not very high. Another idea is that simply eliminate the loss of jobs permanently, and according to a response from the Ministry that came to remind me of in the summer or in the spring, or at any time, the cost at just 2.4,2.5 billion, somewhere between them. The revenues are not expected to return in the form of income taxes or to be involved in the older citizens who want to be part of the business. In view of the fact that the difference between government funds is so small, wouldn't it pay off, simply to simplify the system? I know it's the highest. Minister appreciates simple systems. So is the man standing here. Especially in the public insurance system. It would simplify the system. It would increase the freedom of older citizens. [[The president calls.]] And it just doesn't cost that much, in my opinion, that it doesn't pay to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u11	A respectable president. Well, the question that we face is: When we feel that we do not have enough money to support those who have least, can't work, have failed to build a pension - whenever we feel that we want to play more to help them - we're happy that the president, who continues to run his own business and has his 900 you. K. in a month, 75 years old, in their pooled sales, will you accept benefits from your social security? Is that okay with us? That's the question. Impliciting a non-employment market for employment would be the decision to continue the director in the public improvement system. Despite the size of 900 deeps. K. per month. I'm not comfortable with that. I think we have to get this out of the fact that money is in short supply and that we have to try to control it as best we can to those who are in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister here speaks of the state's going to raise its pay on the pay of senior citizens to $ 100,000. I told you yesterday I wasn't really that powerful in accounting, but why in the world does a government fund have to pay $1.1 billion extra into income made by older citizens? That's not the point, chief. The secretary of finance, that the state will increase its payment, will be the state of the money tax paid by older citizens who won more than $5,000 on pay that they had the authority to earn in accord with the last and current law. What is fair and what is just, like the highest. Secretary of finance suggested earlier? How old and what's new? The fact is, it's the crowns that matter here. Whether it is an old system or a new system, it is important whether people really have in themselves and on and money between their hands to support themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u13	President. I can agree with that with what. A senator's job is to calculate the exact amount of income or reciprocate the effect of a change like that for the holiday target. It is a variety of human behaviors that may change from having the holiday target too low or possibly too high. But according to the criteria that we have given ourselves, it is expected that by expanding a group of those entitled to social security - and by expanding our group by saying: "It's not just those with up to 25 thousand dollars in employment income but up to 100,000 dollars, thus increasing the numbers of those who can be paid in public insurance or have a right to pay money from there - the result is that it will go about 1 billion more than it would be in terms to improve social security. That's the result. Then, I'm sure it's right next to you. A senator said that it is not accurate to calculate that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u14	President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance. Let us not forget that when it comes to pointing to it, as it were, the highest. A financial minister has made it important that not all of us have a chance to take advantage of the generous hundred thousand dollars that are being paid on vacation on pay, so the fact is that the person who is not able to take advantage of it is not a city because of health or otherwise, simply to have the opportunity to have it from the government's hand and those who are to care for us citizens and citizens here in the land, that they are enabled to survive their portions. Hence, the woman who stands here recommends a minimum amount of $300 without paying taxes. And if you're planning on getting into the tax system and all the calculations and nice things here you're offering all the experts you're working here, it should be easy to do so and you're going to make it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u15	A respectable president. Actually, I don't think it's a playful light. But let us continue to make sure that there will be enough value here so that we can do even better in the social security system. My point regarding this change was this: We have limited funds and are making a decision to make that is the group that can get the benefit from it. I simply allow myself to draw attention to the fact that they will not be used by the older citizen, say, who pays long rent, find it difficult to make ends meet, and will have no chance of going into a job market. It is no good to pat on the back of those who are in that position and say, "Now we've done a good job, now you can go out to work and improve your benefits. [[Up front.]] We must not forget that group. I think it's only good to keep it in mind when you share money, and it's an endless law of lawlessness, to see what you're not doing as soon as you do what's right. [[The president calls.]] And that change is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u16	V.E.G. President. Thus, of these 4,500 senior citizens who are capable of working, there are possibly 10% of the 75 - year - old directors who have 900 yous. K. per month. I don't think the other 90% should pay for the fact that there are men who make that kind of money. I believe the fair market that it is now, by employment, is nothing but bullshit. They're not supposed to, they're not supposed to be punished for getting a few crowns. A very recent idea, for example, was made that older citizens are involved in working in children's homes, which is very well - versed. Which senior citizen leaves the innovations for 100 grand. K.? Just for real? And I'm paying off 40% on income tax, top priority. Secretary of finance? Why is this vacation target not simply taken away? The other thing I'd like to guess is that about 20% of this rate increase in capital income tax, in particular, will be affected by the elderly. [[The president calls.]] What's your chief plan? A financial minister will do to meet that group?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u17	A respectable president. Of course, there is no argument in this case to say that there is such a small group that is good enough that it is just as good to unexplore the roof with everything. There is more evidence, then, that the line might be slightly higher. There is absolutely no evidence to eliminate the pay factor for employment that there is a relatively small number of people who are so good at it. I never escape the fact that as long as you feel you need more to those who have mentioned you don't have to regret a single dollar from the thank you to those who are just fine. Not one dollar. I'm not gonna put a single cent out of the government's reform system to do what's good while we're not gonna be able to do enough good for those who are fighting on the banks. It should never be. And I have to say, too, here, to use this expression, that people are having rights in the improving system, by people who live in good employment and are just doing well - done - they've been turning everything upside down by this approach. We have a social security system to support those who have their feet. [[The president calls.]] This is not the legal system of all Icelanders to improve their progress in later years. This is a reform system to support those who are ill in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u18	The President must be less than the highest. The secretary of finance says that there is more to it than money, including time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u19	V.E.G. President. I disagree with an elder at the highest. Secretary of the budget that 90% of those who work for 10% are going to be really good. The other is so different, I welcome the interest shown in the case of the highest. Thus, a minister of finance is to improve the interests of those most in need. The media will not be able to help him on that journey. I would like to remind you that at the recent conference of older citizens, the income distribution is different from what I had imagined. The Tenths of this group, which number a total of 44 Thoust. a man, or about that, is about equal in number, i.e. The lowest of the daily coins, and the highest, 75 - year - old directors, members of the highest. Secretary of finance; these are about the same number of groups. That is why it is possible to make significant changes for lazy ones. For example, I will be very happy if something will be done here on increased housing for older citizens living in a rented home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u20	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator refers to the income tenants. They are simply set in such a way that there are as many people in each income space. Thus, when we begin to compare the coins, we make them. It is absolutely true, however, that not all older citizens who are living under a crisis are living at a cost. We are not to speak to the elderly population of Iceland, as if they all needed much support. However, there is a group of people who have not been able to make use of their careers to build up good pension rights that we are always talking about, or who have possibly done it, but who have experienced some other tragedy of their lives. We are to focus our attention especially on that group. Otherwise, I'm celebrating. A senator who supports my efforts to help them best. But I'll remind you what to do. A senator was conducting a group that produced a bill, since we had no income cutouts, zero. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u21	Mr. President. In the years before the collapse, Iceland became inexorably rapidly increasing, faster than in other Western countries and grew larger. In addition, when the collapse of capital gains broke down, the government of Sigurðardóttir Sigurdirddóttirs used the government's electronic devices, using the tax system and the improving system to increase the equation, despite the difficulty of the situation at that time, both for government funds and for the entire country. Iceland is growing inexorably today, although there is not as much power and speed as there was in the years before collapse. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, " Is there any open means of repeating the game before a collapse that resulted in an intense and massive building of property in a short period of time? ' Are government defenses and surveillance agencies strong enough to prevent the same developments as them? Their questions need to be asked ourselves in this council hall and to respond in the right way. There is clear evidence that if we watch, for example, we are heading in the same direction as in the season before a crash. on property in few hands and increases in fiscal taxes. But governments have control tools. This can be done both to soften and to amplify the balance between income and possessions in society. How would the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter intend to direct them? That's what we're talking about. Is the policy to increase the eco-efficiency of the tax and the improvement system to some extent that is relevant, reducing the development of inequities and increasing the social equation? Unfortunately, the answer to no is obvious, though there is a need for increased income to improve the infrastructure and improve and strengthen the welfare system, and it is also obvious that problems need to be addressed. This bill speaks of and suggests that capital tax is increased by 2 percentage points. To me, this is more symbolic than a change in a tax system that speeds up the increase in money we watch. Between 2012 and 2016, capital gains have increased by 58%. We've been told that between 2016 and 2017, there is an even greater increase and an even greater speed in funding. At the same time, or since 20126/2016, the pay rate has increased by 24%, so the difference is becoming larger. But what does that mean? While the capital tax was only 10%, such as pre-fallment, the private components grew inaccessiblely, using tax profits between the pay tax system and the capital tax system. It's still useful for humans. So we must ask, " Will this change come to an end? ' I can't see that it will be for the richest, because the change is an increase from the lower level of the income tax system, 36.94%. The change results in an increase of 0.66 percentage points higher than the lower level. However, it is 8.64 percentage points lower than the upper tax level. Clearly, that is still a great advantage for those who have not moved to the income tax system. The problem is, especially, that the answer is not paid by financial income. I was mayor of the vaccination season when the money management business was the highest in a small town in Southnes, where everyone knows each other. It was not just that we who were running the town would see after the income that only went into the state's funds, but that we created this piece of shit, I'd let me say, in the village, because those who took advantage of this tax gain and took advantage of the opportunities offered in the system to pay less money to the local community, less to schools, and the nurserys, etc., still used the service. This is a matter of righteousness. If there is not a willingness to be reassigned by capital gains, the increase should be much greater. The increase should be at least going up to 25%, but not just to 22% in order to have some real effect, or that the tax should be step - by - step, and that could be a higher level of credit from below, for example, to try to increase justice. This 2 percentage increase in capital income taxes is from my viewpoint figuratively, in order to say that something is being done when it comes to the richest people in the country. But it will not have a real effect on those most of the capitalists. In my speech yesterday, I talked about child support and compensation. I don't have to say again that I was disappointed that the government of Catherine Katrín's Jakobsdóttir did not use the powerful equations possible, which are child reforms and compensations. Regarding child reform, it is assumed that the exact same number was in the bill of Bjarni son of Benediktsson. There is no change there. However, standards and impairments were so cruel that not all billions walked out. A little over a billion dollars later passed on by the Generals to attend a family in the country. All that is done, the only thing the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter does, is to change the criteria so that child reforms will not begin to interfere with $225,000. as they do now, they begin to interfere with $22,000. They start to suffer a long time before people receive a minimum wage. Such a system promotes poverty rather than the rest. It is very important that we reevaluate this in the conduct of the council. There are no diagnostics, as there are both reports and analyses that we can apply ourselves. It's not complicated. We can afford to do better with our children in the country. It's not just that we can afford it, it's because we're getting smaller, that's why. The number of older people is increasing. This is positive, but there are fewer who pay pensions when the age passes. So it is important to encourage children to become father to children and children to remember them. The same is true of growth improvements. The criteria should not be changed. The same criteria for growth reform have been since 2010 when growth reforms were three times higher than they are today. The proposed schedule assumes that they will still decrease. It is also affected by the interest of young families in the country. I'll give you two at the end. On the one hand, there are tax contributions to companies and people in the country. Tax concentrations are highest in transport, except for tax returns to family interests. There are about 33 billion family taxes or so as a result of a lower level of taxation on food etc. But in the country, tax contributions to tourism, to the largest feared industry, are 2,858 million. K. There is no profession of such taxation, although we do so for the seabed, with very low fishing costs and heavy industry, with very low energy taxes. We're still going with the bill we're here to keep to the favors of cars in the country. Since 2012, the government has been trying to shut down the discount on rental goods. We had agreed in this hall that it was a matter of losing money, and this profession didn't need tax. It could prosper without the support of the Kingdom. The rental companies must have taken into account in their prices and plans that this will be dropped at the end of the year. Why is it being changed a few days before the New Year's Eve? What is that? We need to be very careful about this on the committee's section on which evidence is there that we still have tax allowances for the land's rentals. Is it the worst of our profession? Why do we spend 1.5 billion on this in 2018 when we cannot raise child support or improve the quality of those who truly need help in our country? I think this is a priority for the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, which I don't like and it's easy to change. A respectable president. There's something else you could discuss in this bill that time does not have. In addition, there has not been much time to prepare for the discussion, so it will definitely be none, with more and more information when the bill comes to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u22	A respectable president. We're here to discuss income proposals of the budget. As always, we discuss the changes in the tax system each year. There are probably few countries as fast as we do, and there are probably few things in Iceland that change faster than the tax system, except the weather. We're talking at a baseline financial policy that it's tied up in government. The tax system also needs to be attached. It should be predictable and planned on a longer-term basis. It can be said of this government, as is true of the last and most of the above, that our willingness to change the tax system by no means is all too great. We have no perspective or long-term perspective on the tax system. We are ready to throw forward the change 15 minutes before the New Year's Eve if that would fit for government policy at the moment. We have a major vice in our financial affairs and something we have to replace. Listening to the top is a little fun. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, speaks for the righteous funding of a tax system by raising it. It is certainly a new tone from the Independence Party. Of course, a person enjoys listening to that message. It is also a little fun to watch the government of the left green, and including other left greens, support the rise of carbon costs, in that right-hand government of all time, to be said, especially by members of Congress left green who were not fond of the policy of that government. But she hasn't much changed by their coming into the government, to see the price. Let's just watch the capital tax. I think it's interesting and nice to be around when we discuss his rise, that, first of all, when capital taxation was set in its time, a low tax percentage of capital money was supported by unstable economic conditions and unstable capital incomes. That we're taxing the interest in name in a high-historic inflation in Iceland. They have often forgotten in their discussion that this is still the case. Although we have experienced more stability and lower inflation in recent years, it is primarily because we are on the positive side of this same instability, we see a high level of success in recent years that has kept inflation down. The international inflation pressure is just as intense as ever. We have not yet solved this discussion about how we will calculate this currency. I don't particularly like it on the part of the new government starting with raising the tax, but at the same time, I'm telling you that it should be reimbursed. How much better it would be for both of them to be done at a time! Because it plays a significant role in the overall impact of this change in terms of the target population. To stir the tax per cent this year, the currency next year, with very vague messages about what to do - I think it would just be better to finish the whole case over next year. The same can be thought of in the discussion of the carbon account. Now you might ask: Isn't this just another left - man tax - made proposal? No. Here we are, first, trying to pay taxes to stimulate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We know that beyond the corner, we may face a potentially enormous financial payment when we have to buy some emissions, so if we don't reach the goals we've promised, we will count even one hundred billion dollars, if not more, according to the programs we've seen. Then I find the discussion about whether we are raising taxes about 2 or 4 billion a year in an effort to avoid this cost of a government budget within a mere decade. I think it's much wiser for us to try to make the best of our own time. We know that transport energy exchange, the reduction in carbon emissions from transport, is one of our greatest opportunities to meet the commitments we have made and have repeatedly enjoyed, in a statement made by a new government, even more intimate in the commitments and goals we are going to meet. So I find it interesting to see that the left green supports at the same time half the rise in carbon tax from previous schedules. In this context it has been referred to as a major tax in the region. I have not seen any numbers that clearly demonstrate that driving a country is necessarily greater than driving in urban areas. Indeed, it is longer than any day's driving may be, at the same time, much shorter. I think those who drive most probably live in the collar line of the capital area and get work every day to the capital area, if we look to Smokeness, Selephos, Ac Aranes. It would be closer to seeing the effect there. But in the end and at the calculated cost of household maintenance, I don't think that these are huge numbers per year when you look at the interests on the other side, i.e. how much money we as a community can fall if we are not able to meet these requirements. Hence, this change leads to disappointment. It is also disappointing to see that the equations of diesel and gasoline are cut off. The figures show that it is more carbon emissions from diesel cars than fuel cars. There's no reason to have less taxation. There are parallels. In addition, expenses can be provided so that they do not include an increase in taxes, if that is the problem. But here it is simply out of synchronizing the position of the two fuel sources. When it comes to the face, you can also ask yourself about the sudden decision now to extend the will for your rental car. This was a report two or three weeks ago that a special ship was being rented to move rental cars to the country before the parole board fell off. I assume those cars are as much on their way to the country - if they're not here - as before. This article may have little value in doing so on such short notice. This commitment has long been made. I find that there is very little evidence to support me if the environment of tourism is much more powerful and more powerful than it was when the decision was made to remove this exception. That is why I don't understand why it is now, 15 minutes a year, to postpone it. In fact, it would be nice when we talk about firmness and foreseeing in the income preliminaries that we gave up the habit of extending some preliminary law for a year at a time. There's never anything to be done about reexamination, if we look, for example. ... fortheimplement. It is long time to revise that arrangement. However, we roll some preliminary arrangements year after year, and no work is done on how the future arrangement should be done. It would be closer, then, to extend it just to three years at a time and set forward some time - set plan on how to solve it in the long run. I'd just like to get to the discussion about the income market on the elderly's professional income. I take note that it is a real pleasure to see that the elderly are being promoted to a job market. This is in harmony with the last government's policy as well. I, however, agree with the discussion when it comes to making sure that there is good reason simply to eliminate a loss of employment. I'm not particularly worried about the 75-year-old rich director of the Garden town. I'm sure he doesn't have any tax from social insurance, because the presupply for pensions from public insurance is that the person started a pension payment from his pension fund. I'm going to head of the Garden town with $900 a month, like the highest. I think most of them are very much higher - just an excellent pension right from their pension fund and that the poor ones there will clearly empty his right to social security. This top-of-the-art group doesn't have money from government insurance, just because of that, so I don't worry about it very much. However, it is quite clear that there is a strong incentive for working with the elderly, the motivation we would like to encourage. We'd like to contribute to the job and create an opportunity for the elderly. Whether it costs us 1.5 billion to go to $ 100,000, or 2.5 billion just to take it out, I'm more of a simple system, to cut it off, and to say, "Great, it's certainly supposed to let people work and enjoy what they want. Let us also see that it is a very limited group, a relatively low percentage of older citizens with employment income. That is for a relatively short time. You know, the senior citizen's employment party kind of lets go when it's 73,74, if I remember correctly. They are primarily people, often with a very poor pension right, who are trying to earn their income in the early years of pension. There's nothing wrong with that. There are two things I would have liked to mention only. In the bandormins, the income of the F.I.N. is being made up for one more trip, so to speak. At the same time, a normally normal agent's income is being reduced, with significant declines in the size of his office since a successful collapse. It's a delightful development. On the other hand, I am concerned about the extent or type of incorruption of the budget. I call for the government's opinions on earlier ideas in the spirit of increased efficiency in the government's business to re-examine the SEC and the Secret Bank. As we look at how we can make more use of the money, I think it's something we have to look at. Another factor considered is the change in income to the elderly, which is the standard price update. It is sad, however, to see that the problems of this same fund are not addressed that in the period of the government of 2009,2013, this same trust fund was rolled over, which actually prevents him from fulfilling his role in the building of a nursing home. I hope that in discussions about the financial side, we will be able to rebuild the fund, which has become extremely limited in its ability to build up. But I really hope that in the long term, in the spirit of the values we put ourselves in the government policy, in the law of public finance, that in this our tax system and think it for a long time, we'll find that changing it with longer notice than we've used to so far, so that it's at least one year or two in advance of that change, not just to stop at the budget of each year. I think it would be a great improvement in the government business if we could arrange it. Whatever the policy is about the tax rate itself, I think we need to develop a much better practice when it comes to changing it and how much more when we're stirring up individual taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech. I just agreed with him in all the basics that he studied, as far as I can understand. I look forward to working hard. A senator at night. The Economic and Business Committee. I wonder what. A senator can teach me and the audience something more about this capital income tax, especially the changes that have been put on that capital tax is taken from real product growth rather than on name growth, i.e. The fruitage that comes from real growth and name growth, the difference is that if the tax base of a fiscal tax is the product of the name - am I using a word correctly? I hope so - if the inflation is extreme, the result may be negative. When you deposit on an inflatable account, the point is that the deposit holds its value. So when using name fruits as a reference, it reduces the whole purpose by adding to a secure account. That's what I find strange about the present arrangement. That's why I haven't quite made up my mind about this point. On the other hand, I understand that it would be an example here if we were going to calculate capital tax from real-life. Similarly, it would seem, without me calculating it, to go from 20% to 22% extremely little to say in the light of such a change. It would benefit me, and I'll hold the discussion in case of an emergency. A senator would review only where he is on this matter and why.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's true that there's only one thing about taxing the real product, so I know exactly what to do. But we are now so unique, especially when it comes to instability and inflation, and we here are one of the few economys that may focus as much on some kind of real-life, real-life. Of course, we generally live in a very high interest level because of this instability. It's hard to guess. If we were to use a very rough schedule and say: The long-term average of inflation, if we look back in time, we are in the range of 4◯5%. If we watch our largest investors and most scattered investors who are the pension fund, their long - term experience in the future is also 4◯5%. We can see that if we were to tax an actual interest in capital income, it would be no wonder to believe that the level of inflation in this would be in the range of 30 to 650% of the taxpayer. This would have a significant impact on the revenue of this tax. If such a change went along, it is clear that 22% tax instead of 20% would have very little to say against the loss of state funds in the opposite direction. However, when we look at this, we do well to keep in mind that there are also other factors that could be considered for such a change, such as. to allow the houses to dissociate their interest fees against interest revenue. That might be much more reasonable. Of course, we can see that there is a possibility, e.g. Within the lawyers: This is where you add your capital and financial expenses and pay the tax net.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u25	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. This is also my understanding that if this change was made, this two-point increase in capital tax would not really have anything to say. Then I begin to wonder, under such circumstances, what would be a natural capital tax? Is he 25%, is he 30%? I'm sure we'll be considering all of this very carefully on a committee when and if this change occurs. But the reason why I'm talking about it is that she was offered along with the idea of raising the tax from 20% to 22%. That is why I feel alone that there is a plan to make some changes. Then we may be prepared for the discussion when we are discussing what appears to be an increase, but it may prove to be a reduction in the way changes are made at the same time. You're right. A senator tells us how Iceland feels about prices. There must be something special about it. It is here that those people in the market who influence prices, half of them don't think it's an increase in prices consistent with the index price of consumers, just don't look at it as an increase. You can naturally remember when the bus increased its prices at its time, which, of course, he regularly makes it all go wrong and always say the same thing: we're not raising it, we're just putting it in line with the prices. That's why you may have to give this idea a little bit of an impression because our economy is characterized by so much of this thinking. And not just with us who are putting into the laws of such insurance, but only in the thinking of the economy itself. He's so full of shit out there. This must have a powerful impact on how people make their investments and savings, for example. It's about what it's like. A senator said about lawyers. I always worry more about such ideas as they are. A senator mentioned what was introduced took care of the individual because they are simply not as busy in their financial affairs. I like it better if the system is so that the calculations are simply made by the bank, by the tax authorities, or by any means. The city can then look over the way taxation is done rather than take the initiative in taking advantage of any tax advantages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator resists. You're right. A senator mentions. We have a pretty special way of thinking when it comes to these prices, compensations, not to think of them as growths. In part, it happens in the government business. I'm sure it would be acceptable to pay back every deposit every year. There are very few companies who work, for example. in some active competition that can allow such thinking to continue. There is no respect for any merit. Increase is an increase. Of course, that is the way thinking should be. The other is, in fact, this anti-inflammatory disease that afflicts society, to determine somehow between the increases depending on whether these are prices or just because of the necessary costs, to improve the inevitable cost of business growth. It would be very good if we gave up this bad habit, as well as the government business. But when it comes to the capitalist thought: I think it would be very interesting to look at it, because low tax per cent of the time was precisely supported by indentation and taxation of interest in interest of interest, not real, and in a high level of inflation, this is of great importance. You're even being taxed when your money's turning down a high inflation. Each person sees that it is not very reasonable. For the individual, it might be very interesting to look at sources for recovery, e.g. because of housing debt or any such stairway. This may be of major importance to average earners with relatively small capital gains, but more often, not considerably higher debt than property. That would be a much more reasonable taxation system in my mind than the present.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u27	V.E.G. President. It's especially the parts of this bill that turn to the elderly that I want to go over for a while. V.E.G. A financial minister reminded me earlier that I had directed a committee on the change in the social security laws, where the Commission had concluded that there was a decrease in pay. It's quite a luxury by the highest. Minister to direct that committee. So Winston Churchill once said that it was only the fools who did not change their mind, and in its strength, I have allowed myself to change my mind on this matter. I believe that in the elderly, we have wealth that we should not allow society to fail, except that we are to stimulate it in a group of older ones who trust, guess and want to work. We're supposed to create a prerequisite for them to do so. That is desirable in a number of ways. This is desirable because the fulfillment of these people becomes greater. This is desirable because when a person leaves work for his age, it is often accompanied by social isolation that we prevent by letting people work, enabling him to do more than that. In fact, we need to take this step a little further because we need to increase the legal age of public employees from 70 to 73 years. If we don't do so, it's meaningless what the social insurance laws say, that a pensioner can start at 65 years of age. If men are simply forbidden to work 70 years of age, they have no choice but to quit. Right there, i.e. in the public sector, we're driving people out, if I can put it that way, with vast knowledge and experience. I would like to mention, for example, university professors, specialists who work at various institutions and conferences. It is a waste of the ability to drive these people home in their 70's if they at any other level want to continue working. But that's the natural relevance of this: those who want to. After 73 years of age, the job program of an older person is rapidly disappearing. Thus, the number of 44,000 in that group is just 4,500,5,000 elderly people in the employment market. That's why we should encourage, because there are no doubt more in the group that could think of working longer if they had the chance. That is why we should enable them to do so by making sure that businesses do not reduce pension incomes. The next bet is the 2nd. the proposal for this bill will be made by the Central Party according to the category's campaign policy. I'd also like to reiterate what was shown in my counter-representation earlier for a 10% increase in capital income tax as presented here; approximately A fifth of the tax pay available there is due to the financial resources of the elderly, i.e. The elderly stand up to 20% of the increase received by the State. As I said in a speech yesterday, this payment of the elderly to a capital tax zeros out the number-of-employer increase called here, i.e. one group of elderly people who receive money pays for a higher payout of other people's income. These are not expenses from a government fund or some dramatic intervention in fixing for people who want to work and need to work, there are others under that payment, so they can be maintained. This is what people are going to do about the fiscal tax, i.e. the part that lands in the elderly. Will there be a peak or a minimum? It is often life - saving. This is not an inflation of stock or gambling in the market. This is because people have been making up their entire career in minimum savings, which will then be worth 10% more if this continues. I trust that in accordance with the sacred wording of the Treaty, people will take that matter into consideration and take action to correct it. I would also like to state that I was elder with my former speaker, the son of Víglundsson, why. A senator, of what is to be extended, about rental cars, inquisitive. I think it's a long time to take her off. I'd like to point out one thing: every car sale in Iceland is full of used cars. Much of the cars there are just rental cars that have their rental car available for a short period of time, which is actually very short, so they can throw cars into the market. They have used probes that have not been inexpensive to the use of cars sold by Jón and Gunna. Clearly, then, these past few years have benefited greatly from rents. That's well, but I think it's time, some time ago, so that men just stand on their own feet and save themselves to be the billion, or whatever it is in here, if I remember correctly. There's another thing I didn't come to answer to the highest. Secretary of finance before, and I hope he hears my words wherever he is. What is just as important as providing a bill on the income of a trust fund is to collect these incomes. A special consideration of what people are going to do to improve the tax system would make for themselves. It's simple to point out that 1% adds collects, I'm talking about when it's due, you know, five billion bucks. Every percentage we add to the tax returns to 5 billion. That's a lot of money. Instead of reimburseing or raising the current fees, why not collect the already recommended fees? I remember a time when I spent my first year at the council, some years ago, especially speaking about black employment in the tourist sector. It's finally, good health, four, five years later, that men are making trouble out of getting, for example. The hosting of Airbnb lists it paying a valuable tax and men pay income taxes from the revenues to which it is due. It's first now. That means people are out of the game, you can say that, for four, five years. The last number I heard, it may have improved, was 13%, 13% of the operation is recorded. There, in many places, you can improve and collect the fees that have truly been recommended. Then there is another subject for another special discussion. I recall that 22 billion people are now in the medical system. You are immediately, as everything looks, both financial bill and so forth, by not taking advantage of the premium of Arion's bank, to give up a lot of money that could go into a government fund. I'm not necessarily talking about that kind of money should be used directly in government business but to reduce debt, because it says in the budget of the state's debt last year that it reduces interest payments, if I recall correctly, 8 or 9 billion this year. If they were to want the interests of government funds well, they should have the courage and courage to take advantage of the State's premium of Arion's bank as well as the portion that has already been released from a foreign hedge fund. I think it's a job to do. During the next few weeks, it will be evident whether the national part has the courage and the ability to stand up in the hair of a foreign power. In fact, a number of characters and players in that group have shown that this is not the case, so to speak, but I hope that this is the case with confusion and the power to do it because it matters. This is probably one of the biggest cases we have right now. I restate on the fact that if you want to improve the interests of the State and if you want to improve the nation's interests, then people will take care of this matter. It is absolutely clear that the Central Party will handle the case for as long as it takes to beat the hearts of men to work on it. This will suggest that employment income does not reduce pension income income. It is not for politicians to decide whether someone who is old and who can win and wants to win is to win a hundred. or something else. The tax paid by politicians is of no concern to whether it can earn more or less. In fact, I didn't think I would survive the day that the D.O.O.O. would stop the head of the Garden Town with 900 yous. per month. I thought they were the source of this party's election fund. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's not to know that unless someone went into a mess this morning and that could be reduced in the savings section of Valhalla. I rejoiced over them by wanting a minister of finance this morning to try to do something for the lazy. It is long ago that we can place older people, I don't talk about elderly people, I don't talk about desperate people, into some single afterlife. This is not possible because the circumstances of these groups differ so that specific measures are needed for each group. Although we leave these 75 - year - old directors in the town of Garth, these are groups that need special attention, such as those in a rented house that is expensive, those who owe their own housing, those who live at high medical cost - these are the groups that we have to look out specifically for and do something for. If it is that some of them are able and interested in and willing to earn a few extra jars to lose their lives, it is not the role of politicians to prevent or control them, unless less so. We're supposed to stimulate. That's what we're here for. - Other than that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u28	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when it comes to the pension and everything he said about it, I agree with him on that, and I agree with him. A senator about a lot. One of the things that has amazed me since the campaign is that the state uses the prerogative right to buy Arion banks and banks. A senator says he will fight a great deal for that matter. I want to give him a chance to do that. I cannot begin to understand why it should take some special courage on the part of the State to have a procedure that would be economicly reasonable. If the procedure is reasonable, and if it can be shown that it is reasonable for the government to use this premium, I don't think it's a matter of courage, it's just a question of whether it's the right decision or wrong from the interests of the state and the common people. I'm a little skeptical about this matter, but I'd be happy to admit that I haven't really studied it. I've only heard of it in the campaign and heard the media candidates talk about it from time to time. I saw some corneas in my day. Why is that? A senator and the Central Party so sure that they are paying for the government to use the prenup to buy Arion banks? Where does it come from if there is something that will bring in the government funds, whether they earn them, to pay off debt or to what else? That's what I don't quite understand. I think it's a financial decision that I generally don't think it's a bad idea that the state is in because we as senators don't pay a government fund from our own pockets, we don't feel ourselves when we take some financial risk. Therefore, I don't feel that we should take a lot of financial risk, with members of Congress or politicians in general, especially when it comes to the need for courage. When you talk about the need for courage to get some financial action, it puts me off. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator explaining this policy more and thanks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A sincere senator for this answer. I'm very kind to explain the meaning of courage. It is often in politics that many of us feel that many of our decisions are considered, as one says for themselves, natural, reasonable, but when it comes to doing so, they do not necessarily have the courage to carry them out. What I mean with courage is that we watch, for example. the number of people who lost their feet here when Icesave was at the highest level. Then they bent on opposing foreign authority, and many of them did not dare to do so. Happily, they were avoided by people who had the courage and vision. Why should we take this bank over? Yeah, he's full of his own money, which the Central Party wants Iceland's government fund to tell us about how it's spent. Next sure, the bank is also more valuable than its prices today. I thought I wouldn't do this, but I could point it out. A senator on a nice tour the other day with Sigrún, the Davíðsdóttir of a radiowoman, who reviewed that one of the first things a man would do, i.e. Those who get over this bank, would be cutting it up and selling it out things at profit, such as Valistor, map company Valitor. I will say without hesitation: If anyone is to profit from cutting down a bank like Arion and selling it at profit, it is the Icelandic people and the Icelandic taxpayers and the Icelandic state, not the foreign hedges. That is why the Central Party places so much emphasis on this matter and will continue to do so. But that takes courage, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and is quite prepared to study this matter more fully, especially since I am now a member of the Economic and Business Committee. I am still unconvinced, if I speak exactly as I am, because this still sounds like some food made on a certain investment, and the government should have an investment in order to finance itself. The problem with that in my opinion is, first of all, that investments like these are always risks. When we make decisions, whether it is for the nation or for the government funds, however we say it, we are actually taking on a role that I simply do not trust in politicians, either me or anyone, because I feel that it is an abnormal job of a state fund. It's not because I lack courage, except that I still don't see why here needs courage. I realize what courage it took after a collapse, and I realize it with the Icesave debate and all that. There was a big question about courage and discernment and good luck and other things, but I don't see it here. Here I see just one question: Is this a reasonable decision or not? In view of the nature of this venture investment, I'm very skeptical about it. If you can prove it's such a cremation, I wonder if we're not saying that, in fact, anyone who has a chance to buy a share in this bank. So that's not what we're saying? I wondered if there's a subject we're supposed to have here in a pita. It's just a part of the state that I find difficult on this. To say that, there is always a both the ◯en and the ◯ students. I'm not alone in resisting the fact that the state has one bank because of competitive circumstances that are predominantly in this country. There's nothing sacred in this, as far as I'm concerned. But as I say, I'm still unconvinced, but I look forward to discussing this better in the future. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u31	V.E.G. President. Once again, I thank you. Senator. A two - minute answer to a perfect description of how this matter is growing may not be possible. I'd point him. A member of the Central Party's campaign policy, which is on the team's home page where the restructuring of the banking system, not just Arion's bank, is presented in a very clear and clear way. The government's take on Arion Bank is out of control by the government because Anion Bank is a part of the stability agreements, which many of the individuals currently in the Central Party were in place at the time for the price of Arion's bank sale. The question is to maximise the government's profits by temporarily acquiring this bank and then selling it. For this, a very good article is made, as I say, in the category's campaign policy and on his homepage and not just his homepage but how the entire financial system should be reorganized. This is, as we have said, the next certain chance the nation faces today. By temporarily obtaining and dividing the bank, Orion is not being a factor, or he or she is going to be involved in risk investments for some time. Not at all. For example, it is also part of this explanation to take an Iceland bank in the same way and then sell it to a foreign bank to ensure competition in the bank market. I say again to what. A senator, because I hear he's interested in this case, and I'm glad that I would advise him to look at this on the party's homepage. I look forward to it and I think we have an ally in it. A senator when it comes to this. [[The president calls.]] I know he's got balls.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u32	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion so far. How pleasant and beneficial it has been to listen to what we hear! Councilmen Sabelstein Sæmundsson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir. Secretary of finance in an unusual business discussion about a so-called lorm. It's made me very happy. There's been a lot of talk about the social security system. That's very normal because it's one of the most important things in this so - called alliance. There are also things to say about the capital tax and the proposed changes in it, according to the highest. Secretary of the budget, intended to balance the tax rate on the budget. I'm very convinced that it will be because mathematics just doesn't work that way, but the number would have to be slightly higher. But I'd like to change a little bit about how things are going around here. It is the stated objective of the government and of most members of the council to try to protect the environment in one way or another. The main goal may be to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When I examine the intentions of the government with this bill, I think of the words of British poet Paul Kingsnorth, who asked when it had changed to protect the environment rather than merely protect human living and life - style. Now we look forward to 10,000 electric cars and 10,000 connected trucks receiving this value taxation that has been present. The primary reason for this is that we need to build wood and that, on the basis of this, we tend to run the wood when the total amount of cars used is above 5%. This argument I can completely buy and accept and all that. There's another one, too. Electric cars and minivans are still much more expensive than other cars, perhaps especially gas cars, which are highly contaminated. The increase in transport emissions has been considerable in recent years; it was 17.8% in 1990 compared to 22.7% in 2007 and has increased even more since. Total carbon dioxide emissions have also increased substantially during this time. We look ahead to a very serious situation. There is no need to account here yet again how serious the consequences can be if we cross this vent where very rapid climate change will occur; it is not even clear whether we have actually crossed that point right now, but the effect is not fully evident. I believe, first of all, it's incredibly good that the government allows it to extend it to 2020. That's what the Pirats asked about last year's discussion, and they didn't know what to do, but now they do. It makes certain for immigrants who use these renewable energy sources and clients who intend to divide over the course of this period. There was also a good change in the economic and business committee last year, to the less suggestion, when the M3-class of automobiles were added to this, which makes it possible for bus and bus transports of a particular size to enter this worth extra tax discount abduction; it has an impact on the bus and, hopefully, the companies involved in a tourist vehicle, a tourist car. Nevertheless, this number, 10,000 automobiles, sting me a little bit, because it includes a measure of ambition toward the overall goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The insides are important. We need to build them up and cross this point, somewhere around 5%. Then half the victory is won. It is obvious that 8.8% of automobiles are expected to reduce only 8.8% and, in fact, significantly less, since motor - trucks also release carbon dioxide of this total growing year - long period of time. This number is naturally randomly selected. It's a beautiful big, rudied number, but a choice would have been made. Perhaps 10% of all cars could have been checked, 12% or 25 points might be considered. cars or maybe you could just pick a whole other number. The number comes, as I know, from an energy exchange programme that was adopted in spring. At the time, I complained that she was a bit ambitious. I'll do it again. It's ambitious to tie us to your 10. Cars of each type. We should rather open up on this, say, it doesn't matter if there's electric or linking vehicles, the total amount should be considerably higher. Maybe we could pick a 30 or a 40. Cars. That's when we're over the 25% limit with this change. That's when we're really cutting back in this holistic change. During this period of time, until 2020, hopefully electric automobiles will reduce their price. Perhaps the major factor there is global chromatine bioavailability and, in fact, other substances, such as Indians and other factors needed in battery production. I also hope we see significant improvements in battery chemistry over the next few years. There is evidence that plastic batteries and other products can replace the chromatocarbons and therefore reduce our need for things that do not exist to an infinite degree in the world. Chromatization results in a high cost factor as well as the absolute production capacity, all of which are involved. I'd like to complain that we could be considerably more ambitious in this. I would like to suggest that this number be revised and even raised considerably by the committee. If you don't have a move from a financial and business committee, I'd love to put in such an arrangement myself, and I'd like to ask for your support. Councilmen on such a proposal. Still, something else is closely connected. This is a suggestion that we change the costs of carbon emissions from 968 k. in small 627s. The reasons for this are that this is being followed by a median market price in Europe. That may be a good argument in some way because we are, in fact, offering a product at a market that is likely to sell on the market. If there was a natural market, where there was a considerable supply but perhaps less demand, it would be very albino. But that's not the case. We are talking about the release rights of carbon dioxide, of which there is a very limited supply. As a result, it is a seal market. The State of the United States that sells them has considerable scope to control the price. It follows that the thought of this carbon dioxide release rights, when this occurred in relation to the Kyoto Treaty and later plans to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, was to create economic incentive for enterprises to avoid carbon dioxide emissions. The goal was not to earn the money of the state. True, it is a side product that benefits us. The goal, however, is to discourage companies from releasing carbon dioxide. I ask, Is it not difficult to keep the guards high because it's a seal market? We will be able to sell these sources because the demand is just so high. But it is good if, by being slightly higher than the average price in the European market, it is necessary to discourage the enterprises from releasing carbon dioxide; by allowing it to cut more in the interests of their own emissions and to provide economic grounds for them to add more money to the pollution prevention that prevents the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases or to simply bind them to the site of production. If anything is, we should be raising this number, not lowering it. Well, I don't think that's a very good idea. I'm not going to go into any more details on this bill. Of course, there are many things that are going to be revealed in the subsequent treatment of members of the Parliament and perhaps especially in terms of the social security and hopefully the fiscal tax. But when this encore ends, I'm just gonna say good for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a foreign law. It is suggested that, as permitted by earlier laws on foreigners, there is no legal basis for foreigners to be allowed to live in the trade industry here. This has led to, as any person knows from the news, that industrialists who had already been authorized for the duration of the older law and requested a renewal on the basis of current legislation have been denied a continuing visa. The bill consists of a change to a previous outlook so that reimbursement from industry can be granted. A respectable president. With a bill, I recommend today to be the law of the 15th chapter of Article 3. a law on a student's explanation of foreigners will be removed because it has caused inexplicability in the interpretation of the law. Is the explanation for not forming in harmony with the interpretation of the word study in the individual branches of the law. Instead of the explanation, it is suggested that the definition of study as a result of a repercussive on a study basis be added to 1 mg. 65. g. The law. It is also submitted to annuity from the above definition that it is permitted to grant deposit to students of the industry on the basis of a national study. On the basis of trade studies, the laws of earlier laws on emissary rights also took place. It is not so in the current law on foreigners. In explanatory data, including articles and debates at the Allied Council on bill that became the law of No. 80/2016, there is no clear indication of the legislator's decision to disqualify industrialists in particular from the definition of the law of education. After my opinion of the case, when this fault arose in the fall, and my conversations with some of those in the parapolitan committee that suggested that new foreigners be introduced, I did not get any closer to the reason why the industry fell out there, so with the bill it is suggested that it be turned back to the rule of the old law. A respectable president. So I have explained the key points of the bill, that's not far, the bill itself, and I suggest that after a discussion, it be referred to why. The General Board of Education and Education for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u34	A respectable president. I feel like we're at the highest. Ministers have been in this situation before. In spring, the minister spoke for a bill about the correction of printing errors in the law that had brought together the terms of marriage and marriage, causing individuals to be affected by it. Now we're correcting the law again. I'd like to ask the minister if these repeated adjustments and correctations of laws not even a year ago call for some particular reaction, whether the Ministry has to sit down and study the law to see if there could be more fault issues on them, similar to those two I've mentioned. These two corrections I've been referring to come out of the news because individuals are getting into trouble because of the error in the law. I'd feel better about it if the lawgiver and the executive authority would find this fault before it came so that people would not have to go into the media to get our ears, but would just be fixing things ahead of time. Is this something that should be done by the Ministry who could clearly address the Law text? I'd like to hear from the Minister about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u35	A respectable president. In fact, these laws have become somewhat older than one year old. They were approved here at the General Assembly for my time in the office of Minister of Justice after the work of a transverse committee. However, there was a time when the council adopted the law that a great law code was involved. There were significant changes in their installations, and the law itself may in some way indicate that many came to the contract of the law. It may be unfortunate when humans do not have a complete vision of this. That was quite before the summer of 2016. In view of experience and the procedure of the law, it was realized that some reexamination would be required. That's unfortunate. Of course, it is also unfortunate - people do not need to consult the media on these matters. So let's take the example of what's under discussion here, for example. Never testified to the Ministry, they couldn't get information from the Ministry on this fault, but they were only told about it. It's okay, too. I immediately took action, and I immediately said that it was the monotonous act to change the situation. You're right. A senator mentions. We've been standing here before to correct print errors and other things. Like I say, it's inevitable to revise the law code. I'm pointing, for example. in fact, it was surprising that the organization of industry had not made a remark that the industry had fallen between a ship and a dock, so there were many eyes that slid it and missed the error. There is also the possibility that there will be further adjustments and explanations of the specific laws of the law. I have the intention of providing a bill as early as January, with some specific legal modifications. As I mentioned to the council in the fall and repeat it here, I will again proclaim to the parapolitic field of consultations of the members who sit at a council that will be assigned to continue this great code of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u36	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. I hope that we will then be able to do these laws for an even better look at things, especially in matters where there is an overlap between foreigners and other peoples. Here we are talking about education in connection with the alien law. Another correction was what touched the exchange students at the end of spring, where a World Health Committee brought a bill because, in part, some high school students had fallen between ships and docks, it had been expected only for college exchange students. As the minister says, there were many eyes that did this in their time and missed it. I wondered, " Do I need anything more specific, clear, process that will be started along with the recent revision so that there will be an organized review of the Law section to find a point where I could be such a lapsus? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u37	A respectable president. Take it easy. A senator may mention and deal with his foreign exchange students a little similar to the mistakes that have been made here on the verge of delinquency. I'm not going to say anything about it, but it seems that there may have been a little bit of a effort in focusing on the university and losing sight of industrial education and other things. Of course, that is not good. It's a little easy for men to do this. This should be an urgent reminder to those who accept a review or a contract law not to panic in their own mind or personal situation and to look at the matter from just another point of view. I think it's important to assemble this group of consultations and will soon do so. On the other hand, I think, to keep my expectations in moderation, that there may never be a way to look at anything that might come up. Of course, trying to review what appears to be a human need for correction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u38	Mr. President. I have to say, I welcome this bill to the highest level. The Minister of Justice, for example, is absolutely unacceptable that industrial mines fell by this clumsy manner from the foreign law. However, I have to agree with a word. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son reports that it is surprising that in less than 12 months, there have been four changes in the law of foreigners and the fifth in the movies and revisions. And then on a transliterian committee to cover this code. This indicates that there was a little speed at work when so much adjustment is needed. I also have to say that the Minister of Justice thinks it is reasonable that it is the responsibility of a community organization in town to watch the counsellor. There are 63 senators, as well as a minister who does that work, this legislation to ensure that things are going well. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is no basis for any further alteration in the bill, i.e. ........................................................................................................................................ It's not today. Untimely deposit has been made in certain categories, but it has been excluded from there, as well as from those who are here for non-doctors, and they do not have to send their children away while they complete their studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u39	A respectable president. I have no idea that I have referred to a free society on the watch of this or another law. It is likely that the cities offer their tips when they feel that legislation is not in harmony with the interests of the citizens. There is no obligation for humans to do so. Of course, the Lawgiver is required to do so. This legislation was made up of a committee made up of representatives from all categories. A person may wonder, " Is it reasonable or convenient for such a committee to be given the extensive task of creating new legislation from the foundation in this way, whether the work of such committees is suitable for humans to get enough perspective on the sect and important legal considerations to be taken into consideration? ' I can't make it right enough that legal bills need to be handled successfully. Sometimes it can take time. In this hall, there have been times when legalization has become a mess. It has not been possible for humans to have enough time for them to do so. This must be kept in mind. Humans can't hold on forever. They need to be done at some point. Of course, it is only reasonable to assume that the law will change if there are inexplicable words or actions. For example, I take the case regarding the students of industry, that is the only case that has occurred since this law went into effect. It must be kept in mind, in the context of reality, that it is not a matter that often comes on a legal level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate your answer. Minister of Justice, however, did not answer my question. If we are scribbling in this unique provision of the alien resident, do we see the possibility of making such a change in this arrangement? I want to hear her attitude about the students who stay here having children, for example. During this time or would like to bring their children here, they may be granted permission because, in the law of foreigners, students are not allowed to keep their children in this country if they have a child during study, as well as the situation where students cannot obtain untimely living permits. No matter how long they have been here for years and even decades, they, Vágua, have to leave the country when they complete their education. Can a minister of justice see how to change that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u41	With regard to the second question, it is quite clear and has been legal, that the patent on the basis of study cannot be the basis of an untimely reimbursement. There are a number of reasons. It is a point that would be appropriate to discuss in the above - mentioned collaborative group or the political scene that I will soon state, whether it is a reason to look at and change it. The second question involves the children of students. Family unity is also excluded, i.e. if there are children abroad. But I have to admit, I don't know what's going on with students who have children here. I am amazed that the newborn children of students are expelled from the country and that they are not allowed to live. If that is the case, it is likely to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u42	A respectable president. I agree with what's been going on here. I welcome the proposed change, and we support it. I just want to put up an idea because we're talking about the rights to a student's children. In current law, the exception of students who pursue higher education at the university is restricted. It's like the highest. A minister entered the Law seems to be slightly tailored to that group. We talk a lot about how we're beginning to study industrially and that to the point of respect and honor. It is also true that the change in human society is that people are studying at all ages, even basics, as a result of those with children. One of the reasons why we are constantly hacking into this complex code of laws is that we are repeatedly listed who has rights and who are excluded from someone who does not have rights. Is it not just a reason to examine it once and for all that a person's privacy on the basis of study also grants the children of their students unprovable residence? Is there any reason to say that some study is more important than anything, and people get to study with their children around them? I wanted to see if it was the highest. A minister could not say that it would be a good idea to use this opportunity now and take these exceptions out. We're talking about temporary work permit anyway. So it's just a permit from foreign citizens who study here. If they have children, they can only be with their children here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u43	A respectable president. That's where it points. A senator for the sake of study provision. Of course, it is relevant to the question that she raised, whether it is reasonable for a person to be granted permission for his children during a study period. So in itself, I can't see any resistance. It may be in some cases when special circumstances allowing it to be authorized that young children and their parents who are here for a living may be allowed to live together with them. Governments have some kind of room for research. I can agree with that. A senator feels that there is good reason to consider that aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u44	A respectable president. Thank you for your time, and I'm happy with them. I would like to use my second opportunity here in a talk chair to state that I will at least take the initiative that we can continue with this matter and/or give a short time to take the initiative. Minister. But right at the end, I'd like to be sure we're here talking about a complicated law code. In the past few weeks, months and years that have to do with some mistake, there have not always been legal interpretations, etc. One reason is most likely because the law is being sullied. It is precisely defined who will and who will not agree with them. I'm saying that when possible, as in this case, where it's hard to figure out why there were exceptions, why the conditions couldn't just be without exception, that we should take a closer look at it and keep it to the extent possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u45	A respectable president. I agree with what. Of course, a senator, whose legislation should be as simple as possible and transparent as possible so that it does not have to be complicated. Me and the Icelanders have just had a lot of experience in these matters. Not that long ago, Iceland became the popular destination for tourists. Now Iceland is getting it for students as well. It's a pleasure. Of course, we should celebrate it and try to help with the arrival of people who want to come to a longer or shorter place for that purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u46	A respectable president. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to talk a little bit about a piece of work. The adjustment of the bill being considered here is clearly a problem with the overall review of law, but a certain aspect of the older law allowed, for example. Students who are living in high school and who have a permit to live. This point allowed by the old law fell into the new law without an explanation. All alike, in the work I've done in other fields, there is a list of the qualities and aspects that are to be achieved with the solution, in this case the law that is being worked on; a list that covers all the factors; that you can write a law, or set some quality in a program and such, and at the same time make sure that those things that are part of the qualities that the solution or the law is meant to be fulfilled. Clearly, there is a fault in this process that such a list of the qualities that the law should possess has not existed. Otherwise, it would have been very obvious that it would not have been marked by the field that a high school student could be granted permanent leave when the new law was being filled. This is yet another example of such a mistake when a case is made during the final or subsequent session. Without such a check list of which qualities the law should possess, or which or what solution should be returned, we will find ourselves in error and repeat it over and over again. I mention the law that we had to reinvent on social security, costing 2.5 billion a month. More such adjustments have been needed in the past. This shows that there's something wrong with the process, especially with an update to a full reexamination of the law, which we really need to consider. There are plenty of methods and tools that help with this and apply e.g. in a software program that could be accepted into the track. In that case, I would like to remind you that, according to a resolution agreed by the Council, Congress files should now be electronic so that a computer can read through the law. Then you can ask the computer: "Who is 1? " mg, 2nd speech, number, etc.? You will get exactly the article or text that applies. It hasn't been done yet. However, if we had completed that arrangement, we would have come to a much closer structured system around a legal review or an update in the law. So I'm directed to the government to complete this council resolution and to take good care of the procedures involved in the repair or uplifting of laws in the near future, so we don't have to go through this again. There are some practical solutions to this in other areas that we would need to consider. Let us take advantage of the knowledge that exists and prevent such mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a legal adjustment of the courts and other laws. Its motive is that of January 1. accept the basics of the European Court's work by the country's judicial decision to operate as it is known. So it is necessary to deal with the changed situation since the Council agreed on May 26, 2016, with two law-enforcement cables established in this country, as well as with the right to sharpen a few aspects of technical implementation of legal legislation. I will now step in to the main points involved in the subject and focus of the bill, but the main policy may be divided into four parts. First, this temporary source is proposed by the bill, from January 1, 2018 to July 1, 2018, to appoint judges at Iceland's Supreme Court, if a judge is under way or has been granted a leave of duty. At the same time, it is assumed that during the same period, it will be authorized to appoint a reserve judge to take the case into consideration. With a new court law that works on January 1, 2018, it was decided to reduce the number of judges we judge from ten to seven in a way that will not be assigned to the posts that will be released until the expected reduction is reached. These changes were suggested that it would take some time to achieve the desired reduction and would not be fully accomplished until the change in the Supreme Court's function, including the reduction in the number of treatment options. On the other hand, two Supreme Court judges retired in the fall months of 2017, this fall, and it is clear that the judges at the court will be only eight on January 1. It can be assumed, then, that by December 2015, one judge will normally be granted a leave of study as authorized. For this reason, temporary authority is proposed to appoint judges and defence judges to the Supreme Court so that, within the right time, they can complete the personal matters that have been appealed to the court before January 1. Second, a special temporary warrant is given for a minister to give a judge permission at the National Court if specific reasons exist, but no longer than three months. As mentioned earlier, on January 1, the National Court takes up the job and accepts the order of a judge at that time. At the time of their implementation of the law, there will also be the change between the granting of a judge who has so far been a minister will be left behind in the oversight and responsibility of the Court of Justice, but that institution will be the nature of the case only according to the authority given from the office of the law, i.e. (For fully formatted text, see publication) But now, for the past few months, one of those who have received an order to be a judge at the National Court has been appointed the district attorney in what has been known as the Guðmunds and the Geirriður. It is now clear that the treatment of these cases will not be completed on January 1. When the land's rights take place and the time for the appointment of the appointed judge. For obvious reasons, the same person does not feel that he or she is in favor of an established national rights attorney and state attorney at the same time, but there are all practical reasons to end the work as a state prosecutor rather than a new individual. In view of this, it is suggested that a special legal warrant be given to a minister to allow the Court's appointed judges to permit, if specific, to up to three months' request such permission to the judge on January 1, 2018. The source is the nature of the case in a temporary manner, as it is assumed that the treatment of the cases will be completed in the Supreme Court in the early 2018. It should be noted that the bill also states that a judge will not be replaced by a national court judge who receives permission on the basis of this authority. Is it now evidence that the land's challenge will not be like that in the first three months of the year? Third, a change is proposed in the implementation of judicial rights for the Supreme Court in terms of the attorneys who have brought at least one test case for the court on January 1. When national legislation was adopted in 2016, all cases, both criminal and personal, that would have been appealed to the Supreme Court on January 1, 2018, would be moved to the land's rights when he went to work. From that time on, it was decided that all the private matters appealed to the Supreme Court will be completed in the Supreme Court. It is now estimated that there will be some 260 people - they could become more - and it is clear that several of them will meet the conditions of testing according to current legislation. Is it reasonable to give to lawyers who have at least moved one test case for the Supreme Court on January 1, 2018, allows the completion of the court's hearings for that court's level of older rules, they prefer it. A fourth point is found in the bill that sharpens matters of concern and appeals of personal and judicial matters that contribute to the practicality of the court. Supreme Court. This is primarily technical implementation of judicial legislation, which is not a reason to take into consideration details. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u48	A respectable president. The nature of the matter, I have requested that the minister of foreign affairs be here in the hall at the same time, under this team, where he has been appointed minister in charge of the order of a state judge. I wish that he would be asked to come to the hall. That's what I'd wanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u49	The president can inform you at the highest. A minister has been made a word, and he comes here to warn us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u50	Is it not true, then, that the senator pauses?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u51	Does a senator wish to interrupt his case until a minister enters the hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u52	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u53	It is freely granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u54	A respectable president. There's something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice on this bill for law, and perhaps first declare my concerns about how late it is to win all of this. Of course, the country's courts are part of the basic building blocks that we citizens must be able to trust in as a professional agent. Then I have to say it's very unfortunate, so it's not strong to find that twice the appeals of Iceland's justice system are being run in two ways, i.e. that an unaccustomed criminal case appeals to the Supreme Court will be held at the National Court but unparled private matters that have been appealed to the Supreme Court. It has been explained, and you can see this in the report provided with the bill that, of course, this is part of all the work related to it. We knew long ago that the National Court would take action on January 1 in the afternoon, but for some reason it all seems to be done more and less with some kind of handbacking, both in appeal and order. Now one appointed judge has to be granted permission for other jobs and so forth. I wondered if there are other factors that we must somehow try to correct because these matters have not been better handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u55	A respectable president. I'm impressed. In this year, a senator is taking quite a long time to count the construction of the U.S. handbacking industry. How effective it has been that all preparations were made by many judges who came, both in the Supreme Court and in the district courts, and by experts, e.g. The Ministry. All I can say is that it was extremely successful, and really effective, that the court can begin work now on January 1 as planned from the beginning. Of course, there is nothing wrong, and perhaps it is not proper to say it, so this country has a double system to make any criminal case appeal after a year's visit directly to the National Court. Or at the end of all the criminal cases, I say, who are in the Supreme Court, they'll be brought to the National Court, but their private affairs will be finished, if you can call it a song of privacy at the end of the year, to the Supreme Court. The portraits could have been two others. On the one hand, the supposed original, that all cases would move to the National Court at the end of the year, all the private and criminal matters that are not finished. Of course, this would have led to a dramatic start in the United States, but it would certainly have been very convenient for the work of the Supreme Court. The stage could have been that no cases had moved over the years, and this would have meant that the land's rights had begun with an empty board and had very little work load for the first six months. Neither one I thought was an option. So there was a way to make great peace and a solidarity with both dishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u56	Mr. President. After all, national rights are an intermediate level. I wondered what the next day will be like. What will be the case judged in the National Court and possibly with the option to proceed to the Supreme Court, on the other hand, with the cases that will be appealed on January 1, private affairs that also have the option to proceed to the Supreme Court, i.e. get permission to go all the way there? There's a certain imbalance between parties that are suing a case for Icelandic courts. That's why it was the highest. Minister of Justice asked about this point. There is another question that arises at the senator's home reading a piece with the bill, i.e. to be appointed to judge for a temporary court of law in the court of the court. Due to repeated reports at the highest level. The minister of justice is incompetent to appoint or appoint judges is asked: Who will take the initiative to appoint the judge who is spoken of as being replaced by a judge in the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u57	A respectable president. Now I think we're gonna do it. A senator has misunderstood the meaning of this bill. This article discusses the authority to temporarily appoint judges to the Supreme Court so that the time could be short enough to complete the private matters that will still remain unfinished after next year's trial in the Supreme Court. The minister standing here is not incompetent to appoint that judge to propose the Supreme Court. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator is showing. That's it. This is regarding the sentence of the Supreme Court on premeditated or academic matters. In fact, the Court's administration, for the sake of the court, will, of course, begin ruling at the next New Year's Eve, assigned to form the permission of the Supreme Court judge. So far, it's been a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u58	Mr. President. First, I wish to ask the highest. Minister, in charge of this legislation, whether the national rights to take place on January 1, 2018, are fully funded. Of course, I ask in the context that we speak here at the same time. I understand there's 100 million missing. I'd like to see if a minister can agree with my claim that there are 100 million missing the country's funding. In addition, I have come to appreciate that the information system of justice is a key factor in setting up the National Court. I'd like to ask you if you'd be able to get it in the air sometime next year or if it'll just be some day later. Finally, so that I may stick to three questions in a previous answer, I would like to ask about the Court of Justice, which will address January 1, why the Agency's policy is not in place, according to Operation II on page 188 of the budget bill. There are three questions. Is the National Court fully funded? Will the information system be ready next year so that it can be most useful at this new level of judgment? Why is the Court's policy not in place?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u59	A respectable president. I assume that the Court of the Court, who recently conducted the manager, will shape itself and work on it. The role of the Court of Justice is clear and legal, and there is now considerable policy now. A long time ago, the land court is financed. It's a petition on the National Rights Act, of funding to him. Money has been provided to prepare land rights this year for production and to some extent during the previous year. Of course, national rights, like any other court, are financed and assumed, as one of the basics of the court. That is all there is to the fact that the courts are being financed. For information systems: Hv. A senator has asked me this before. It's good that people are interested in the information system of the courts. There's been a lot of discussions here. I have mentioned it as my special interest to speed up the electronic administration around the courts. It has the opportunity to do so now with the appearance of a new intermediate level that will be used for the latest tools and tools. In this connection some renewal has been made, and significant renewal must take place at the local courts on computer equipment and other things. I assume all these devices will be ready when the National Court takes up the course of the year and that much work will be done next year, and in the next few years at the courts, information technology is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. So I'll just turn to one another: hi. A minister had a word to do with what he said. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir just now and denied that handbacking had been fixed by the court's sentence. I just wanted to come back for the highest. Ministers of the many provisional laws we have had to agree with this council because the legislation around the land has not been carefully considered, including Just to make sure that the judges' qualifications of the selection can be selected as judges in the National Court. For example, they were not seen in the National Rights Act. We have had to deal with the so - called refinements because of these laws. In that light, I wanted to ask if a minister will see that there will be more temporary laws that we will have to pass through this council in order to initiate this national right. Then I'd like to ask myself, " Do I want to extend this order to the Minister of the Supreme Court, whether the Minister can appoint others besides the Supreme Court or whether the Minister's orders are entirely adhered to the Supreme Court's motion?'and where this will be published until the Court takes over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u61	A respectable president. In this council hall, people are drawn to a measure of delinquency in the process of turning a little over of the legal adjustment laid before the council in order to find them all to the ground and to believe that they give evidence of a great deal of handwork. Of course, in some cases that is the case. There may have been a huge error in the process of legalization, which occurs from time to time during various legal procedures. But it is not that when men are setting up a new court, a whole new level of judgment, for the first time in Iceland, i.e. a new court on the side of the two people employed here, that it's unusual that only a person has to sharpen the rules around it and help with the implementation of those materials. Calling it a great deal of weight and that it has been done in the past - they actually talk down to the council like they're getting things done. Here is a lawgiver intended to set rules and men do so in this room, out of careful consideration. It's not, I think, men offering to talk about it as a bit of a twist. In the second respect of land rights, he begins ruling now on January 1, he will. No further adjustment is required for him to take action. I'm not going to state for the future whether there is a possibility of changing the rules at any time in the courts. I've had plans to provide a bill for a legal application of a judge's interest registration. This has not been required in the courts, no time at all. I think it's time to do it and I would have done it in the fall election if it hadn't been for something. In the light of experience, social development, and otherwise, laws need to be handled forever. This is true of the entire national rights. This also applies to the order of judges and future sentences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u62	Mr. President. I offer the highest. The minister of foreign affairs and the local minister of justice in certain matters welcome to the chamber and thank him for having responded to my call to be present and to listen to my question. That was a suggestion at the height of October. The Minister of Foreign Affairs would present a case relating to an order to a local judge, which is unmistakably necessary for the national rights involved in the work of January 1. Now, a number of provinces have been appointed judges at the National Court. Therefore, vacancies had to be advertised in the provinces, where the appointed judges formerly served and now operate. I'm sorry, but perhaps after the discussion that was being discussed all along during this fine land rights, it's done a little in the last minute. We are here on December 16, Christmas, on the next page, watching that January 1 takes up the national rights of 15 new judges. January 1. A new district judge, a number of whom have been appointed. For some reason, it was not a date to advertise them in June when this was evident; it was first advertised in September. At the beginning of October, it was found to be the highest. The Minister of Justice is incompetent to carry this order from the governor to the highest degree. The Minister of Foreign Affairs received this assignment. [[I declared myself incompetent.]] That was in the beginning of October. December 16, nothing is yet to be heard. So I'd like to ask the minister, chief. Secretary of State and the Minister who administers this order to the district attorney, how to treat our courts in which the pressure is already significant. What will be the case on January 1 if the number of judges cannot be appointed, I think there are 12, who are missing from the district court?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There's a lot of unusual stuff that I'm here to discuss. As noted by whiskers. I am appointed Minister of Justice in this outstanding case for reasons. A senator mentioned. As far as I know, there are eight judges to be appointed. Now the material issue is covered by the committee involved. Hv. A senator will have to respect the fact that I don't want to say anything about the matter until I'm given the commission and can take a stand on it. Of course, everything will be done to ensure that this will cause a minor interference in the activities of the courts. However, at this point there is very little about the matter and about what turns me about the matter in a material discussion of the committee. I've had no review or opinion. I do not doubt, however, that the courts of the country will continue, as so far. I don't think there are any reasons for this level of pessimism. But as I say, the matter is in this course, and I don't want to mention it for obvious reasons, while it is in a material discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u64	Mr. President. This is not to say that it would be desired to the highest level. A minister of foreign affairs would appear, describing his position on individual candidates. It is simply being watched by a national rights decision, a national judge's action, a procedure in the order of a judge, followed by a judge's order of the district courts in Iceland, because it is quite clear that the pressures in the district courts are already considerable. I must describe a surprising memory and great concern over the practices that are evident in all of this when, from December 20, to December 30, I as a new senator in the hearing must be informed by a court of justice in this case that the Court's decision against the findings of a member of the panel is until December 20, the second, and from December 20, to December 30, shall be asked to determine who will be appointed judges to the county courts in Iceland. In those days, holidays come because of the weekend as well as Christmas. So I ask again: Is it acceptable that the appointed Minister of Justice does not know whether the U.S. District Court will run low at the end of the year or whether that work will be completed? There are a number of cases in which attorneys and lawyers have no idea which judge will handle the case for a year. That's the situation. This is offered to the Minister of Justice and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u65	A respectable president. I have to be honest with you that I don't realize what's being said to me. Hv. A senator asks that a minister of justice be arranged on a matter for a discussion on bill to legalize a legal adjustment of courts and other laws. Then she starts to tell me that I don't know what the situation is on the committee I referred to and did not want to talk about materially. I have to admit, I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator is leaving. Right away. A senator says that the district court will be exhausted in early January, and I don't know what it will have to do with it. There are eight judges in 42 C.E. I don't know where this discussion is going or where it's going. I accepted a request from now on. The senator, who remains as far as I know, is very unusual, to summon a state minister in individual matters in a discussion of the bill of a change in court law and other laws in this case. I refuse to be ashamed to know what the situation is on the committee I referred to and accept that I do not want to discuss the material issues until the committee has completed the work. On January 1, even though those eight judges are not yet appointed. Hv. A senator knows this very well. I don't know exactly where this discussion is going to lead, but I guess it's when you're called and trying to give the best information, but you know what? A senator well knows that while discussing the matter in a material way, he is not qualified to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u66	Mr. President. I realize that I am appointed Minister of Justice on account of this matter is by no means aware of the situation. The situation is simply that seven provinces of the district courts were appointed judges at the National Court. That is why the district courts are emptying out at the end of the year. Then, too, there are some judges who are quitting because of age and others, and that is why they are in Iceland today, in the Icelandic legal system, that the local courts will be very few in number at the end of the year. It is not the responsibility of the senator here that the Independence Party, unfortunately, is so manned at the highest. Minister of Justice is incompetent to appoint a district judge. It is totally because of her own work to do so. You can't blame the senator for that. Of course, the person appointed as Minister of Justice on this assignment must know his assignment and know something about what is going on there, know what the situation is, and, so, if you take a little citation, you will be running the case. Otherwise, for the New Year's Eve, it will be known to all who work in the courts, both lawyers and judges, that no one knows what it will be like at the end of the year. Nobody knows who's going on. Judges are changing, some have stopped, some do not respond to e - mails because they are going somewhere else. This is the situation and it's totally unacceptable. And she's at the highest command. Minister of Justice and appointed Minister of Justice in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u67	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the bill of change of monumental law, No. 160/2010, with subsequent changes. The bill was cooperated with the Agency and the European Union of Iceland, and it has passed through open communication processes. The bill suggests that the Agency and construction agents will be allowed more time than is required in the current law to obtain the required professions to review the design data and take care of the assessments in accordance with the laws of construction. The implementation of the bill for a change in humanitarian law revealed the firm will of the European Union's member and the company of construction agents to allow the construction agent to be reimbursed in order to cover the above design tools and take care of the assessments. It is because the preparations of an appointed construction agent for obtaining professional values are too short, but according to the provisional principle of the workers'law, there will be a delay to achieve professional practice now at the next year's end. The Ministry also knows that there are no market companies who have obtained professional merits to care for these projects. Therefore, it is clear that if the deadline is not extended, it can be assumed that there will be a shortage of legislation to handle tasks requiring professional recognition from January 1, 2018. The bill suggests that the continuation of the construction agent and the Agency will be extended to January 1, 2018, to obtain professional ideals for the review and management of withdrawals, and to January 1, 2020, to obtain professional merits for the review of key sources. It is suggested that professionalization be included in this order to allow the person to have more time to obtain professional values because of the main factors. In some cases, a smaller office manager will use the services of a qualified observatory to handle a special display, but rather get professional values because of the main effects and assessments. In this way people can make professional decisions about these initiatives in stages. V.E.G. President. I've traced the bill's main subject. It is important to avoid any unsurpassed version allowing for human activities as this situation may arise that there will be no suitable members in order to care for these important tasks in the mobilization program if the bill is not legal. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u68	V.E.G. President. I measure here for a bill to correct a change in the defense of avalanches and landslides, No. 49/1997, with subsequent changes. The bill was working together with Iceland's Weather Service and has gone through an open consultation process. For the next five years, the bill suggests that funds from above treasure will be allowed to be set aside to contribute to the payment of danger - eating costs by volcanic eruptions, floods, and floodwaters. There is no need to question the fact that Iceland and I live in a natural problem that can do much harm to society because of human loss, damage to society's infrastructure, and property damage. In recent decades there has been an increased risk of natural disasters, with the establishment of the Convention Fund and a treasure of great spiritual progress in these areas. The importance of responding to all natural hazards has been explained in the way that the surface flood has been done, so it is suggested in the bill that work at a hazard assessment for volcanic eruptions, which has now been held for nearly six years for the next five years. It is also suggested that work on dangerous food caused by floods and floods, which have now gone on for almost three years will also be held. The importance of volcanic danger was clearly evident in the metabolic events of Bárbjörður and Holunun. The cost of these events, including those events, was significant. because there is insufficient information on the risks of the community due to potential glaciers, gas and ash distribution. The definition of risk targets has to be completed so that the response of the community to both volcanic eruptions and to prevent increased damage to the target population, i.e. sensitivity to environment and society during natural disasters Icelandic society must be able to react properly to volcanic eruptions as well as to other natural disasters. Danger evaluation is essential for all reactents to be able to work systematically and systematically during times of natural disasters and thus minimize the expense of society. We see evidence that during the past few years, there has already been a response to volcanic threats. In recent events in the United States, scenarios have been called for different glaciers, including making it easier now to recognize the immediate consequences of a volcanic eruption in the Gulf of Phreak. This facilitates the decision-making of the receiver. The results are also available on the straggler of ash and the loss of ash from the Eagle Bay, which has benefited similarly. It may be noted that the public security department of the State Marshals has made a big difference in the number of events leading up to the challenge of the recent incident in the United States. The bill suggests that dangerous work for the floodwaters and the floodwaters will be followed for the next five years. The assessment of danger is based on the International Development Organization and the United Nations. That box has proved especially helpful in the work of danger because of the floodwaters in this country, as it has actually done in many parts of the world. Three years ago, an oversea fund was authorized by law to strengthen a dangerous estimate by a flood of water. This took a big step forward, but there is a need to continue providing funds for the commercial hazards of a flood that will be useful. to determine land use and planning. It is very important to have information on flood and flood risks when rural society makes decision on land use and defence mechanisms, with the aim of reducing the loss of community sensitivity to less and more long periods of time, also to provide response strategies when warning of the risk of flood and monitoring for water progress. As mentioned earlier, all natural hazards must be won and seawaters are not excluded. There are many smaller or greater water pollutions in many coastal areas, and the road has produced a marine protection strategy and an assessment of the need for projects on the basis of the law of No. 28/1997, on sea safety. It is necessary to provide funds for the full - scale danger of water pollution, which, in fact, will be useful. for decision-making of land use, planning and construction of defence workers. It is important to have information about the tides and the tides when rural society makes decisions about land use and again with the aim of reducing community damage. As with other natural hazards, a cumulative risk assessment is essential to action plans needed to be made when warning of dangerous flooding and to monitor their progress. V.E.G. President. I've traced the bill's main subject. It is very important to continue working on dangers because of volcanic eruptions, floods, and floodwaters in Iceland in order to enable society to cope better with such a natural problem and to prevent its damage rates from increasing as I have traced them to the past. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u69	President. I appreciate it. I'm looking forward to dealing with the project on the environment and transport committee as an officer. But since I am also a representative of the budget board, I have always called attention to the bill's role, which is the effect of the bill on the state funds. It specifically says that the bill does not have a financial impact on a wealth of money. Yet, it is said that cost will come from above a treasure and that it will have to be added to the financial resources. There's some discrepancies I don't quite understand. Besides, I think it's just a very good project and it's necessary. I scratch a little bit in my head over why this doesn't seem to be the cost of a trust fund, even if it comes through a treasure store.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u70	V.E.G. A president and a what? Senator. The funds produced on the surface of a treasure actually come from their own funds, which, in fact, is quite large. That's why this is happening. In terms of these tests, the funds given to the fund must be taken from each decision made by the Generals. That is why it is now spoken in this way. Actually, about 100 million would. K. research and are dragged away from the budget that the General decides can be used from the fund at any time. I hope that answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u71	Mr. President. I'm not going to do a lot of talking about volcanic eruptions that I'm thinking about, but I'm not going to discuss them here, but I'm going to go to the highest level of my blood. Environment and resource minister on a disaster fund to better explain the background of existing bill. At the time of 2012, there was an institution of a new fund that would combine various roles and thus become a result, if funded, more powerful sponsors in these matters. The report was written. It was presented in January 2016 on a so - called disaster fund, and the government decided to start that work by Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunuga, on February 16, 2016. A working group was set up. I discussed these matters with the current Environment and Resource Minister Björt Ólafsdóttir from this speech chair. The role of a disaster fund was to be similar to that of our discussion here. This was to be a precaution consisting of part of a natural study, the installation of the alarm system, and the operation, etc., and the installation of the export/reaction procedures. For nature's years, work was compatible. If it were to happen, this fund would also be able to pay some of the government's financial expenses if there was a disaster. Funding was supposed to be from the surface Fund of A"s Department of Saves. It was even talking about some repair insurance, etc. By now it had become a legitimate fund. During the past few years, the average cost of the State's disaster has been more than 500 million a year, showing the scope of this project. The bill according to the then environmental and resource minister should have been ready at the end of the year. It hasn't happened. That is why I view this redundant as here, and of course, it is a very positive step to ensure that capitals are involved in this important project. But it would be good to get an explanation of why this has happened and what has happened to this quality disaster fund, if at the top. The Environment and Resource Minister could answer that now or later. I don't need to mention here that members of Congress will, of course, treat this bill in a very positive way. There is more, so we want to know something about the fate of a disaster fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u72	V.E.G. President. ... andwhat. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Everything's right here. This case has been in the loop for a while. I think I'm winding straight in trying to answer the questions as a matter of course. A senator offered to the minister. The bill has been working at the Ministry for a while. The fact is, to some extent, that there's a special fund to be assigned to the farms. It's being discussed in the system. That's why. But if the conclusion comes, I don't think it should take long to set this up. I don't think I can answer this much better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u73	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise the law on farm income, no. 4/1995, which includes changing the laws of the law relating to the property funds of rural society. The objective of the bill is that real estate will be entrusted with a permanent role in the equality of rural society in building houses that are useful in the services of disabled people with great and specific needs. Thus, if there is an urgent need for support in the development of rural communities in this area. The panther fund of rural society was set up in connection with the translocation of disabled persons from a state to rural society on January 1, 2011. The sea then took over property owned by the government that had been used to the disabled, and its role has been to ensure the same position as its members by renting or selling property for such use. The fund also took over property, rights, and duties of the disabled who were laid down on that occasion. In the translocation of disabled persons, a total of 76 property treasures were counted at about 3.5 billion dollars. According to real-estate assessment. These houses have almost all been sold, most of them to the countryside. Only one real estate remains in the real estate and is expected to be sold soon. Institution funds from his bonds were about 130 million. K. in 2016. Then each year he has received a contribution from income an equation fund because of the language of disabled persons, who have corresponded to the annual contribution made by the State Fund for the disabled at their time, or about 400 million. K. every year. Thus, the sea is guaranteed regular incomes for building up the group. Then there's been a number of financial collections in the fund that have come up for property sales and rent. Despite the nearness of the original real estate project, there is still a great need to balance the local community's facilities for building real estates that are useful in the services of disabled people, including those who are disabled. Based on the switch between the service system in the affairs of disabled people and the general housing system in this area. In the bill, the real estate fund will continue to be assigned to do such an equation, although in a modified form, and for that project the new income of real estate and the financial resources that have been collected into it. The subject of the bill is in accordance with the will of a declaration signed by the secretary of transportation and rural government in July. They agree that if the bill becomes a law, it will have a very positive effect on the development of rural society on housing services to disabled people. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u74	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for having us discuss these three matters together. I think it's wise, both in the nature of these three cases and also in the light of the state of the council and the time frame we have. I had thought about going over these matters very loosely, since they have already been under discussion at the council, but perhaps rather going over how we can imagine that these issues can be won in the future. Of course, these three cases are linked. First of all, we have a bill on changing the law on disabled people's affairs and on the laws on how to handle equipment, loyalty and security at work because of the extension of a temporary law on the user - controlled personal assistance. So it is tied up in a provisional principle today, and it expires at this time of the year. This bill must be completed as a Senate assembly for New Year's Eve. The 55 currently relevant contracts are made on the basis of this preliminary principle of law on disabled people's affairs and expires in their years. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that the provisional requirements maintain their values until new total laws are valid, which include legal requirements for right to NPA. The bill also expects an increase in these contracts to be made to 80 in 2018. That's the increase expected in the budget bill we talked about yesterday. A respectable president. I may not go further into this matter unless I just stress the importance of being finished by the year. The provisional arrangement assumes that this service will be extended in 2018, but I also emphasize that it is very important that the Council can take the other two matters that we have for granted and that we should do so. The welfare committee tries to do it quickly and effectively. He has been a very harsh political instability that has been, elections with short notice, and so forth, very bad for these two cases. The members of the council during the last term, during that short term period, know that at the end of that council a resolution was signed on the course of the matter. Under that declaration, representatives of all classes wrote. It mentioned a few things the Ministry was supposed to do until the council came together again. In this agreement signed on September 27, 2017, it is absolutely clear that these two prime radios, larger issues, would be submitted as prime complainers as soon as Congress regroups after elections, either as prime cables or by a Senate committee or as members of the council. And under this all the companies wrote. I felt very urgent that these matters were presented here at the council as early as the first few days. There is something else in this regard that needs to be considered. Some of this has been explained in the ministry's processing. My first work was to assemble in the Ministry of Every Class, as required in this declaration signed on September 26, to review the case. That's what I did on the third day of the Ministry. The meeting went well, but it was apparent that opinions were about which case the matter was to be held here at the council. I felt that the conclusion of the meeting was that it was extremely important that these issues be conducted immediately and given a discussion, taking what to do. A law would be accepted by the welfare committee and the provisional regulations, which would evaluate what could be done in the other two cases. I went over the standards of that work, to form regulations, regulations, manuals and regulations and other matters that the Ministry was to process from elections. The situation is that there are six regulations available in the draft of the Ministry. They are about services and housing resources for children with severe developmental and mental disorders, on user-controlled personal assistance, on the waiting list, priority and management of waiting time, work permit for partnerships, automatons and other private personnel who provide services to disabled persons, on operating procedures and short-term centres, and on monitoring and follow-up for services to disabled persons with supportive needs. I've given a lot of emphasis on the Ministry that puts power into this work, that this case is going fast. The 13th and 18 days. December's meeting will be held for the first discussion of this Regulation. The second to third week of the new year will be expected to include the next meeting in which the comments submitted to each group of talks will have been prepared. I think it's very reasonable that the welfare committee should have a very good and thorough presentation of these regulations in the position of the manual work that has also been going on. I know that's in the way, this discussion will go out today and be referred to. The welfare committee, as well as the staff in the councils who have been working on these matters, will arrive on Monday at the welfare committee. I also stress that together with what these two bigger issues will be carried out, the discussion continued in this declaration. This was just an overview of the status of the case, the processing, and so forth. I've already discussed this with the Chairman and the Deputy General and expect a good cooperation with them at the moment. Senators on the progress. But I'm just gonna let me go over these two cases. First, it is the bill designed to replace current laws on the affairs of disabled people from 1992 onward. As we have seen, this bill was presented to a Council of 146 and 147, but it was not completed, so this verse is submitted here again. The primary objective of their change is to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People in Icelandic legislation. Along with the bill, the bill I'm going to explain below is about a change in local social services law. Both of these primary products are based on the work of a group appointed by the current social and housing minister and were designed to review laws on the affairs of disabled persons and on local community services laws. That proposal was submitted in October 2016. I'm going to review some of the basic points of this bill, but I'm running it over it, so there's no time to go deep into it. The bill suggests the name of the law: Law on services to disabled persons with a great need for support, and it replaces current laws on the affairs of disabled people. The reason for this name is to emphasize that this is a service law and that it is intended to meet individuals with needs to be met in a general way. It is suggested that public service to disabled persons apply laws on local social services, but at the same time a bill is presented to correct the adjustment of the terms of these laws, as previously stated. Is general support services made higher under the head and suggested that the limit be approximately weighing 10 to 1515 hours. Need to be in need of a week. The bill's objective and definition set out in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Then the bill takes place in a gray area that has formed between laws on the affairs of disabled persons and laws on the subjects of the elderly, where a person who is 67 years old may have the right to both laws. Ministers of Management and Control have been revised and strengthened in the bill, including so that a minister can now determine whether social rules have adequate improvement. It is then stated that a minister should grant private employment licenses with the goal of providing services to the disabled. The bill insists that the disabled have the right to a variety of services that meet their specific needs. These include new references to user contracts and user-controlled personal assistance, or MPA, as well as individual service programmes and service teams. The NPA directive is being carried out on the basis of the proposal for user-controlled personal assistance provided from 2011 to the end of 2016. The bill contains some new references to services performed in disabled children and in the families of those in the field of leisure care for disabled students and, on the other hand, for children with well - integrated mental and developmental disorders. Legal regulations are presented in harmony with the State's will and community declarations on the future business arrangements of disabled persons, day after day. September 28, 2015, which is based on the policy that jobs for disabled persons should be the way commercial matters are common. It is then stipulated that a consultation committee should be agreed on the affairs of disabled persons and suggested that a minister be legally authorized to propose a proposal to the Council for a resolution on a treatment plan in the affairs of disabled people. The terms on judicial matters have also been revised. These are key factors in this matter. Then there is the other subject that we will discuss together. There is a bill for a change in local social services laws that date from 1991 onward. These issues were also presented to a Council of 146 and 147, but, as previously said, they were not extinct and are reassigned here. The primary objective of the changes here is to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People in Icelandic legislation. Along with the bill, the bill is presented for new overall legislation on the services of disabled people. Other changes have to do with the necessary changes of the law as a result of the development of other laws. The bill is based on the work of a team appointed in 2014 and was designed to review laws on people who were disabled and community service laws. That group returned, as mentioned earlier, in October 2016. The main changes in the law's regulations are that the design and management and role of the Social Affairs Committee are brought into harmony with the 2011 revised rural government laws. There is also a key role for the security ministers, including by assigning him to determine the issues involved in terms of whether the company's rules have adequate improvement. The changes also depend on explaining the history of problems and compromises within the administrative system. Second, there is a set of rules to consult with the users of the service and specific user advice for individual groups, the first time laid down in the law. This includes high power for users, where they get to influence the policy of rural society, but also the opportunity for rural society to adapt services more fully to the needs of those using it. Third, negotiate agreements with private members and the application Marketing Authorisations to private members who intend to provide services discussed in the law. The regulations are made in line with the requirements set out in the bill to set up services for disabled people with a great deal of support that is offered along with this bill, and I went over here. Fourth, adjustments are made to the laws on social services in such a way that services will be not confined to homes but will be extended to activities of daily living and to break social isolation. This service is for all who have persistent or temporary support needs, but it is assumed that when the service needs become greater than 10 to 15 hours a week, special services, including on the basis of the bill of the concomitantly proposed subject, the services rendered to disabled persons who have a great need for support. Then an individual should have the possibility of making user contracts that include the user's managing how and when he or she receives a service. Was in this view to the ideologies of independent life, as stated in Article 19. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and the arrangements for personal assistance. Fifth, the provision for driving, which has been in the laws on the affairs of disabled persons, is explained and transferred to local social services in which there is a general service for disabled persons, regardless of how much other services are needed. Finally, housing arrangements are adjusted in accordance with the bill to correct a reimbursement of a law on housing. The bill was submitted to the Council of the Council of 145th, but it did not end. While it suggests general consideration of the duties of rural partners in housing laws on housing, the provision of social services will be discussed in a general way. A respectable president. These are the main points of these issues. When you go through this, it's teemed on a big one. I think it is extremely important that all the work ahead is done in the best terms of the welfare committee. I'd also like to say that much of what has been said about this matter is the nature, or the use of criticism, that it is the Lawgiver's answer to certain questions, such as the cost of departments and so on. This is based on an enormous process of consultation between very many people. It has been an evaluation of the Ministry of Health, and of those who have been involved in this work, that it is extremely difficult to plan to disrupt certain things other than the complete interruption of this discussion; or that the work involved was partially disturbed. This was the assessment of my predecessor, who was a member of the Ministry, and it's been published in memos and other events that have been here for the council. I share that opinion after reviewing the progress of the case and the points presented in a document signed here at the end of the council. Hence, these matters do not come in very much into the council. I also found, when I was meeting with the representatives of all classes, that a considerable number of members of the council believed that these laws were of the nature that the council had to answer certain questions, and then we just had to finish this matter. It is also clear that such vast and large changes will require living consultations in the years to come. There the Ministry, users of the ministry, and others, the Council, must be open to the fact that these issues will definitely arise, and likely matters that will never occur in the processing of the cases. Then we must be ready as a legislature and as a legislature to act quickly and be open to the possibility of this. There are matters that I personally feel that we had to consider, and I have had discussions with some members of the council about it. For one thing, it turns to the danger of a career in profit. So I think people need to wonder. I'm telling you clearly here that you must never be thinking back there. I examined it during this short period of time whether any arrangements or adjustments could be made, but it is the same - all of this makes it possible for long consultations in which people have been communicating matters and have come to a common conclusion - that all such changes require a considerable length of consultation again. If we think about the time frame ahead: As I said earlier, I suggest that these matters be referred to. The welfare committee. I'm stressing that we have to complete the provisional principle. It is not likely that the Ministry of Health, and those who have been working on it, will arrive and assist as much as possible to resolve these issues. We must not return to the fact that we are not able to finish these matters and that next year we will have to extend the provisional principle. It is a appeal to members of a welfare committee and to the U.S. National Assembly that we go to this work, that people go into this business, and try to work it as fast as possible. The person standing here or the members of the Ministry are willing to come to and assist in any way possible. I strongly emphasize that the work involved in regulations and manuals and other work is done quickly in the first weeks and months of the new year so that it may be possible to legalize both of these matters early in the new year. A respectable president. I suggest that these matters be followed by this discussion. The welfare committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I come up here first and second, just a few things. There's a huge deal here. The importance of the legislature is very high for a small number of service candidates. We're about to set off in the long term law of fundamental law. I think that is why it is very important for a health - care committee to make room for it, to take the time she needs, and not to get up. I was at a council when the legislation on the affairs of disabled people was established at the time. There was then a parapolitic solidarity in the council. All members of the welfare committee at the time were involved in the case and the opinion. The main thing I'd like to do is go inside the minister to see if he thinks it's not very important. Although this is truly a political matter, it is not a matter of which we should class ourselves as a group. This is an issue of rights, so it is very important to maintain a good relationship. I'm happy that in the matter of the Minister's decision not to increase the contracts, and at the same time, they will end up in the social services that are relevant to the UN Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is true that this is a law of fundamental law. No minister or one member of the council can tell another senator how to vote or arrange his career in a Senate hall. But I am stressing that if it is possible to cover this interpolitic solidarity, it is very important. But I also realize that there may be differences in viewpoints on specific issues. It depends on each member of the Parliament on the outcome of the case at the General Assembly. But the approach I have to make to this matter, and first I stressed by calling all classes to me, I think we should be able to approach it in a transpheric way. I feel that too, and I am grateful that we are measuring for these two larger issues now, along with the provisional principle. There's no default. Of course, it would have been by itself to complete the provisional principle, but the other two issues are discussed here, and these three issues are all in my mind. I have said that in the work of the regulations, in the work of the manual, I intend to continue to have a parapolitic approach. I told them at a meeting with the representatives of all classes that I was prepared to appoint a formal transliterian group, like the council agreement at the end of the council, but that we could also do it informally. I point out that all the work being done at the Ministry is known to be so that it is accessible to representatives of all classes. That is why it is important for a health committee to review it immediately on Monday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u77	A respectable president. There are two points that I would like to mention, in fact, a brief one, not only in the case of a minister. First of all, I want to agree with the viewpoint the Minister mentioned in connection with a profit - drive service, as I think he called it. I think it's important that we take a very careful approach to the earth at first. That we make the knots so that it can't be the drive to services. At the same time, I think it is very important that the legislation carefully considers the issues involved in the rightness of employees and the nature of the case, the rights of those in the service, and especially the families of those who serve in the service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Only in terms of profit - related views: You should assume that this is not a danger because your rural society should seek the most practical ways in which it is concerned. But I just want to reiterate, so it's said here, that I feel that if the legislature power can't intervene and make some changes that might be difficult, we need to keep a close eye on this in the early years and be ready to intervene. Everything we say in this discussion is considered a legal guide in that subject. I'm just saying, it's something we have to watch. In matters related to the rightness and status of families and other, this is one of the regulations involved, and, unfortunately, we do not have time to discuss here today. Of course, that needs to indicate why. the welfare committee for the development of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u79	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the review and asks if he will agree with my interpretation of his speech that it is his clear desire for this matter to be resolved, that we will see matters related to the MPA service taken to a particular point and that the measures will work, that we are not yet and again, in fact, delaying the matter with some legal argument that is often in the past, in fact, not at all present. For what do we see here? What we see is that we are actually discussing the same subject as the same bill that was stopped at the time. What does that tell you? Yes, it tells me, unfortunately, and then it was the highest. Ministers not in here at council, that there was a government opposition with left greens and progressives in the head which simply stopped the case on the grounds that it had to be considered better, fixed, etc. Then there's more and less of the same thing around here. Of course, it was always to be won and finished. So I reiterate: This is a government opposition I don't want to offer. I don't want it to be so that good things can't go against it, maybe there's some group that can say, "Yes, I fought for it. " I like it if this case ends on the watch of this government. It's a matter that needs to be run out of. Therefore, I find it extremely important to have a clear desire for a minister to request that a welfare committee finish the matter in behalf of those who call for a service to NPA.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u80	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the record. Yes, I can clearly say that, of course, it is very important that these matters run out. However, I believe that considering the short time up until the end of the year, it is not necessary for these two larger cases to end before the New Year's. We're gonna have to finish this temporary thing by New Year's Eve. The other two matters may be wise to review in January. There have been slight changes, not large. Review it in January but show that they are finished early in the new year. I also think, in view of all fairness, that much has been done in the processing of the regulations at the time that the situation has been working. Because of many of the critical people who came up with the issue, there have been refinements in the regulations. Of course, that would have happened too, even if things had been done in the past. Still, I feel very responsible for such a large language, since there are a lot of questions that arise in connection with this matter. So it's not unusual, even though I haven't been at a council at the time, that many members of the Parliament wanted to see better the overall frame of the Regulation at the same time. That's why I'm putting so much emphasis on opening up my work in the regulations as well as on what the bill is running out. This will help you to see the bigger picture. But I also stress that this matter, as I said earlier, is that there will be a number of things that will be needed to be reviewed in the law and perhaps especially in the regulations when this begins to work. I also reiterate that it is important that we try to win this thing as wide as possible in non - interpolitic terms. It is the will of the one mentioned here to do so. I hear that's the same way with you, too. A senator, and that's very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u81	Mr. President. V.E.G. In his speech, the social and equality minister could rightly agree that living consultations and cooperation are important. We agree with that. We want to do our part in this. However, there should not be a finish or a bramble that eventually calls for courage. Earlier today, we discussed foreign languages. It's always some piece of butt with us. Then the General must act quickly. What is no longer going on, and that's why I want to encourage the Independence Party not to keep the panels on the subject, since it was the Independence Party who also fought to complete NPA earlier this year but is now a member of the government with groups that delayed the matter, to keep people in touch with it. That's extremely important. But at the same time, I'd like to thank you for putting forth his clear will here that this case might go through because there are people waiting for this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. For a senator before and again that even though these two cases did not end with the provisional decision and by extending it as indicated in my talk, this does not delay those who should have been served in 2018. I'd also like to say it's important to finish these matters and once again emphasize it at what. The welfare committee that it is important to try to work hard. Therefore, it is so important that we have reached these issues now so that they can go to the Committee, she can formally start working in January before a meeting. I think that's underlined by the current independent party administration, forwarding party and left greener in order to win this case fast and fast. And this also underscores the desire of the present government to allow all classes to join the board because this is not a group of political issues, as mentioned in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u83	President. I'd like to thank you very much. A minister for detailed and careful reviews and for making his will so clear in the matter, which is not necessarily in this house. I'd like to make a statement, though, and ask the highest question. Minister. It is positive that there is an increase in NPA contracts from 55 to 80 in the preliminary protocol being extended. It would be interesting to know from the source of that number, 80, because according to the report of the UNECE project, which was made by the Ministry's Office, the European Union's partner, UNBI and others, 136 contracts are needed for the next year. 80 contracts are only about 59% of that. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where does this number come from? Why 80 deals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u84	A respectable president. In order to be completely honest, a review of these figures did not apply to government changes today. We've stuck to what the previous government brought up. It is governed by two factors and their interaction. On the one hand, it is the budget estimated in 2018 that is going to increase, and on the other hand some of the discussions with rural society and what they have observed about what they believe will be possible in this step, which will be further up and up in the coming years. That's my answer to this. I honestly say that this is not something that has been specifically revised during the first two weeks of the government or something I've gone into exactly. This is the beginning of how this number is born.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u85	President. I appreciate the answers. This sounds like there's just some nickel set up for the topic party and then there's a lot of contracts. I would like to point out that this is by no means in accordance with the general opinion of the United Nations Committee on the rights of disabled people. It speaks of budgetary programs not to be used to limit rights. That's very clear. But it seems to be happening here. I'd like to reiterate that I've spoken against this saying of contracts. There's going to be some kind of hunger. I know a lot of people worry about not getting a deal. I think there's supposed to be a little more money in this, it's not big money, and make sure everyone gets a deal that needs it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u86	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says it's not supposed to be the money that controls this. But I'm stressing the importance of completing the overall legislation, which is the two big cases, and all the regulations, before we put in the extra funding. It is, of course, so you drop, a bit bix, to be extending the provisional principle and increasing in there. That's because we're the executives, everybody's responsible for this, we're going to have to complete the overall legislation. That's where the funding comes in. It is the will here that we can promote this ministry as rapidly as possible. Then, too, we must speed up the law. She's the foundation for all this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u87	President. I'm gonna make this short this time in 1st. I'm not going to repeat all the criticism I've already brought on these two big bills when we last discussed them, i.e. this bill of services to disabled persons with a lot of needs and the community service bill, which has not been a major change since we last discussed this discussion. For those interested in their criticism, old speeches can be looked up at at at at at all - frequency sleep. There were 53 envelopes sent to the 146s when the bills first came to the council's discussion. There were many criticisms, and many of those critical voices have not yet been met. Maybe that's why we're here now and take it back. It is clear that the committee will need time to investigate these issues, which are expected to take effect in the middle of 2018. It seems general agreement that these two big bills, i.e. the bill on services to disabled persons with a lot of support as well as the bill on local social services, get a good time on the committee to give as many people as possible the opportunity to post reviews and the committees to respond to criticism and ensure that these changes are for the benefit of most people. It is the goal that all of us want to achieve, and it is also good to remember that it is a natural new person to enter the committee that does not know the history of the matter as well. In order to give us this needed time to work these matters, we have the highest priority. The social and equality minister also submitted a bill to legalize the laws on disabled persons's issues, which include extension of temporary regulations that require the right to the user-controlled personal assistance which will be provided naturally for years before the end of the year and will take effect on 1st January. As I mentioned, we answered at the highest. A minister earlier, I would like to see put more money on this suit right now to make sure that all those in need of these contracts can get them. It was something that I also criticized at the whole bill that didn't happen quickly enough. It'll take a few years to increase the number of these contracts. I'm worried that there will be people who need this service who can't get access to it. This is what I wanted to say and that it is my will as the head of the welfare committee that this matter will be handled quickly but well. We have to do it well. It must not be too rushed. We just have to do it quickly, but slowly, however it makes sense, and make sure it doesn't have negative consequences for anyone in the community. That's extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u88	A respectable president. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. The head of the welfare committee on what she did as a subject of her speech, which is the issue. I rejoice that these matters have come forward again, and I look forward to coping with them. The views we need to keep in mind about work are that many are waiting for the uncertainty about what the law will look like, so that people can see and be confident about how their future affairs will be handled when it comes to their service and rights. Then I'd like to point out with NPA that a six-year experiment has been going on. Preparation for the three years of full discussion of the laws available here has been carried out. So, what's here is a compromise. Hv. The chairman of the Committee noted that all the comments that had been made had not been answered. I'd like to point out the same thing as the highest. A minister pointed out in his talk, making major changes has a major impact on others. This bill is a certain compromise. I think it's very important to keep in mind that the points made are strong comments to are points answered in the Regulation and in the manual. It's very difficult to complete the Regulation, the manual, until the law has been accepted. I think it's very important that we work very fast to resolve these laws so that the Regulation work can be completed. We'll have time in spring to take action if there's anything in the law before the law goes into effect. I want a point of view. The Chairman of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u89	President. As I've said, we should, of course, finish this case. I completely understand that when you're working on this kind of thing, there's a compromise, and there's never gonna be anyone who gets everything they want. The European Commission gave a very detailed review of the case in which work practices were criticized and lacking assessment of the impact of the bill, etc., which is all right to examine. You need to make sure that everything is as it should be and mainly that this does not have any negative effects on groups. You are naturally a bit aware of the big corrections made during the past year when, because of the urgency of the law, you were corrected. There's something I understand is a little Icelandic. At least in our neighboring countries, we do not know that there is as much mistake in the legal process as at this assembly. That's a worry. Of course we want to finish this, but we want to do it well. We want to make sure we do this well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u90	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm trying to talk about, when we start to try to answer many of the questions that exist, to form a work relationship between a person who enjoys the service and the person who serves him, this as a means of profit, the cost of getting involved, a choice of contracts, and a lot of things. It's such a large law group that deals with so much that I think we need to accept the need never to answer all these questions during the council. Therefore, I feel very strongly about songs that have been in preparation for so long, have happened to the council before, have received reviews and consultations, that we are trying to speed up their work as much as we can trust in, so that when the value of being about the mid- 2018, the law has had a particular job, and we have had time to meet with the problems of that work. I think it's important to finish the law as soon as possible so we can take action before they're supposed to take effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u91	I think I can say my whole mind with a bang. Senator. I completely agree with this diagnosis. I'm not much for talking unless I have something to say, so I'm saying good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u92	Mr. President. We here discuss important matters related to the services of disabled persons with a great need for support, often referred to as MPA, and a concomitant bill for law adjustment, No. 40/1991 on local community service, with subsequent changes. As noted in September 2016, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People was signed for Iceland's Hand in 2007. The above - mentioned bill on the change in rural social services includes To implement certain aspects of the contract in Icelandic legislation, this is part of Iceland's validation process. These changes in social services laws include to organise, management and role of social committees, collaborating with employers of the ministry, which is remarkable, and then contracts with private partners, Marketing Authorisations, and more. Then there is a provision for changing the role of the so - called social home service, which people prefer to mention as supportive services. It's a home service we know in that picture. They want to look at these matters in a broader context than just to help people with household maintenance, cleaning, and possible cooking, that they take more into account the help they provide in daily activities both outside and inside the home. It's remarkable. It is part of making it possible for disabled people and older ones to live longer at home, such as we climb on a righteous and holy rock and have done for two or three decades, to create opportunities for people to live as far as home is concerned. More important, in the bill the security role of Ministers, is the fact that rural society is in charge of regulations and community decisions are supported by law. A lot of water has run to the sea since the contract was signed in 2007. A case has continued, slowly but systematically, and is now in the position of these two bills, hopefully in an almost final form. It is often said that these bills are the result of great compromises and that humans have reached land level in that subject. There have been extensive consultations, both to professionals and, of course, to service workers, to interest groups, and to prepare the current outcome. I hope we can see the end of the case. Some important things, however, are still waiting for a discussion on the welfare committee. I don't think it's to be minimized. I must say that the previous social and social equal ministers of the Þorsteinn's Víglundsson were extremely interested in this case. In fact, he fought to the last drop of blood in his work to keep it going. I experienced this so that there had not been political differences about the matter. But it was the Commission's opinion that the matter was just not finished. In view of this, the committee considered it to be a significant amount of responsibility to decommission it from the committee. It was a set of regulations, such as. The transfer of contracts between partners, to state that Regulation is in charge of that. Then there is an important point that we need to discuss to the full, i.e. the right of children to enjoy NPA. In my opinion, therefore, the answer was not clear enough. Then there is the big interest in children with a high level of mental and mental disorders, which concerns the rural community. Of course, it's mixed feelings to be standing here today when these bills are presented concomitantly. There are some disappointments with the expectations of the service workers in mind that the matter is not yet completed, but, of course, it is a joy to see the end of it. There is no political dispute on the subject, as we have noted many times. Based on the data reported in the highest range. A minister today is engaged in a competitive regulations program, and hopefully they will be placed in place soon. I think it's extremely important, especially in terms of the local community. We all know the political drama in this country. She has also delayed her assignment. But we believe that we are rapidly approaching the conclusion. A number of people are waiting for the law to become a reality, and we senators must dress us up in a book. And even though there are very difficult times ahead, great festivals, I hope it will succeed. Mr. President. There is the hope that the bill will be referred immediately to a committee and that the long - awaited dream of self - determination by disabled people will be realized in the recent New Year of 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u93	President. We will discuss three cases involving the rights of disabled people. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. The social and equality minister for this process, as well as the council for agreeing to her, that we are discussing these three matters together. I think that's gonna help with the discussion, because it's all connected. I think we'll get further and faster in our discussion today. Naturally, the focus of the discussion is very much on NPA or on the user - controlled personal assistance. It is vital, however, that we do not lose sight of the fact that the two huge bills, as shown in the case of the highest degree. Ministers as well as others. Congress officials, who have addressed much more aspects of the services and rights of disabled persons in much larger contexts, and including the same. is introduced into the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People. Although the discussion here is very much about NPA, it's a much larger case. I think that's one of the reasons why we're behind how late it's been to finish that case. That's because of what happened. The welfare committee has been discussing not only the MPA business but much more at the same time. It's gonna be like a half-assed elbow child at the discussion, but that's not the way it is, because as important a service as the NAPA is for those who receive it, I think we have a pretty long way of getting all disabled people under the NPA, even though in the future dream state it might be. Of course, when we discuss these matters, we need to take care of the interests of all who are disabled. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir spoke in opposition earlier, as if at the last council's side, perhaps in left greens, would have stopped things and prevented them from being smart. It's completely absurd to say such things. Happily, the issue has been in spite of a somewhat different viewpoint today, which is quite normal when many different categories come into play. But we have had the privilege of being able to cooperate in our desire to do things well and to want to work together. As shown in the speech of a man. Brjánsson Just so that the welfare committee did not get to the bottom of the job. I'm sorry. It would have been so much better if we could have finished our job. It just wasn't like that. Sometimes things develop so you don't get exactly what you want. The big issue that remains is to understand the discussion of the cost of division between state and rural society. I think you're absolutely right. A minister said before we have to make a decision there and cut the knot, but it has to be done with the discussion in order to get to that place. One major point that has been discussed is that there are several aspects of this element to be solved by law. It may not be unnatural, but it always causes questions about how this will happen. It makes things more complicated. That's why I think it's a very good suggestion at the highest level. A minister to offer it to show you what you have to do. the welfare committee into this work on regulations and manual. I'm sure it will be to keep this up, because it will answer so many questions as to how this will be resolved, although it cannot be completed until the bill has been completed at the council. I think this type of work will speed up and be very helpful. I'm glad to hear it. A senator and a new president w. A medical committee, Halldóra Mogensen, emphasizes the importance of doing things well but doing them quickly. I think it's extremely important that the welfare committee do exactly that. We were here earlier to discuss foreigners who have come many times, and we had to make adjustments. This has been criticized. I think it's quite true, however, that when new and large law columns are being approved, it will never be inevitable, but the Senate will want to make the preparations so that if it is known that something is over, it's done and not just said, "Yes, so we'll fix this later when we're going to have to get into the trouble." When it comes to the fact that there's something that's not quite quite prepared, we must finish it first. I hope that this will not take very long, and I think it would be best if the law could be completed so that these laws could take effect in the middle of 2018. I'd love to, but I don't know if that's possible. But I wanted to share their views. We certainly don't have a green job in the left motion to do this, and we never have. I hope and trust that the provision of this provision will be adopted for the year so that those who are already making contracts will continue with them as well as the expansion of the agreements, as agreed. I'd love to, at the same time. A well - being committee who works well to get things done. I think she really has everything in her hands so that she can work fast and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u94	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank you for the discussion that has been here on these big, important issues and the harmony that have been among those who have taken note of the importance of doing and finishing these matters. This harmony is in harmony with what has been in the public talk for the past few years, and yet we are here. What I would like to make correction and advance, and I would like to direct my case to the point. A senator, is it not that we have arrived at the point now to finish the matter and perhaps take some chance that it will not be complete and then it will be fixed completely afterwards? I can hear it. A senator speaks of changes to the foreigners, that it had to come back, etc. The changes made, though, were the ones to whom they were intended. At some point, it may be time to say, " Let's finish this. ' I would do it as well as I would. A senator said that one of the things that had taken up the case is that they heard more under than the NPA and the welfare committee had to watch a larger package. One way is to break up these matters and finish this matter. I ask myself, " Rather than seeing that the harmony and harmony of this matter is being carried on, it's better that we cut it down if that's what it takes to finish the case and not just hope that we can finish it by my years, but get into it and finish it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u95	Mr. President. Yes, of course we should and finish, but it is, of course, that the matter is never finished until it is finished and the Council Committee that has the matter discussed is confident to resolve the matter and so finish it. That's where we have to go or where we're going to get there. I don't trust myself to tell you which way. The welfare committee needs a lot of meetings to get to that place. I'm not going to have any opinion on it. I'm not going to tell you why. The welfare committee for work in it, but we need to figure it out, and we here need to finally have the political courage, but also the political conviction that we're just here and we're going to finish this. I think we're really close to that point. I'm very optimistic about it being just about there. Like I said, there are things to finish. We need to keep it safe in all our legislation that everything we do is in harmony with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, but in matters specifically involving disabled people, I would say that this is a key factor. But like what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen pointed out some tools for interpreting the language. So this is what we need to baby-sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer, though, would have liked, it might have come in a later answer, ask her whether it was a reason to break up if the fact is that it is complicated and large that a health committee cannot control it as I understood it. A senator earlier. She noted that the committee was not just referring to what was going on in the NAPA but, rather, to a large and large group of subjects, and that the matter was to be delayed. Sometimes it is better to eat the elephant in smaller pieces. This will benefit those who have an interest in it. Then I'd like to ask you a little, because now I've had a good time. A senator twice said that there are differing viewpoints in the matter that need to be reconciled, yet there is a paradox agreement: Are these differing views of something else? I'm actually trying to figure out how to stand here year after year and talk about cross political reconciliation in a case that can't be finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u97	Mr. President. I'm not sure it would be beneficial to break this up. These are two primes already. I'm not sure that it would benefit to put MPA outside parentheses, because this is part of a single body when it comes to different services to disabled people. It's so maybe. The welfare committee to decide, but I don't think it's the main thing, but it has to be realized that it's a big deal. As for the transnational reconciliation and the different viewpoints, I think there is a significant difference. However, the transnational reconciliation has focused on our not getting this into a conflict but on solving this on the committee so that we can handle it from there into a tripolitic agreement. Therefore, the committee should work there and agree on how to land the case. We are not going to take it here into the Assembly Hall to settle a vote for any issue. I don't think that would be good for the case at all. That's what I'm talking about when I say there are any noodles, even more subtle abnormalities, that the committee finds out and puts their arms around it and makes things right. I think that would be all of it, and especially disabled people for the greatest good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-16-4.u98	A respectable president. I'm also gonna thank you for the discussion that's very important. I'm gonna take this opportunity, because I'm not gonna sit in it. To celebrate this matter, a welfare committee, and to promote my views. I agree, however, that once we haven't been able to get it through properly, it's unusual to stand here again and celebrate this wonderful human rights business. So I completely agree with the viewpoints mentioned here. So I don't have a seat. A welfare committee who served as a substitute there during the last term. I was found as we discussed this matter at the end of the last term and wrote under the agreement, which I think was very important, since all the classes joined together to attack this project right at the beginning of this assembly. That's why it's very important that this preliminary bill pass right through. I don't know if it's reasonable to say in the Parliament's symposium that certain classes have delayed the matter. You see, I think there was a general opinion on the welfare committee that there was a certain need for someone to finish the matter, and then there was a reason. A welfare committee is not the least discussing the progress itself, i.e. The regulations and manuals they were working at the Ministry, and the ones we sat on the committee would like to see into their work. Here we discuss an individual service, but it is always an enormous challenge for the administrations, as important as it is based on equality and the like. I've been a little worried about what to do. We in this room may fall into too much detail. I agree that now we have come to the point where all views have definitely appeared. They've been tried to settle on this bill, but once the bills are sent back to review, the same views will come back. There's nothing certain that you can put your arms around it in a better way than this. So I'd like to encourage you. The welfare committee continues in its work, thinking that this is such a matter that it is more important to finish it sooner than later and accept that we may have to make some adjustments. I think it is also extremely important for the rural communities, who will be the executive in this service, to be clear as soon as possible how this will be done and that they will first see the manuals and regulations they are working at the Ministry. In my mind, and I'm sure all of us, it's primarily about the interests of the users. That's what we need to look at number one, two and three. I wanted to address two points that I've been worried about, and I mentioned in my speech at the last assembly when this matter was considered, so I'm referring to the ones sitting on the ground. well - being committee; on the one hand, regarding leisure services for disabled students and the importance of their rural communities working together on this matter. It may be easier for rural society to provide services for children with a lot of support inside the schools, a more difficult social element. It may be wise to look for larger resources in which rural communities work together. As far as the duties of rural society are concerned to provide support to those living in homes who need assistance because of impaired ability, there is a substitution in which local communities do not need to provide them with support in institutions. They are referred specifically to hospitals and nursing institutions in view of the fact that when we change nursing laws, those who now live in nursing homes are not necessarily older citizens. It may be even young people who need much support, but they may need more social assistance than a nursing home can provide. I feel like those better-behaved individuals sometimes land between these systems. So I throw into the welfare committee that they keep in mind whether there is some way that we can put our arms around it. It may not be possible in the legislation as such but may be more than just a subject of Regulation. I can't quite figure that out. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more than I'm going to. The welfare committee for the promotion of this project.
