ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Ministers, Justice Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u2	Mr. President. By permission: ▪ And the progress of those who become ill in the community? She wasn't much discussed before the last election. Whether we talk about the pay of disability and the elderly, minimum wage, or unemployment, we are expected to ensure that all who live in this country are suitable and decent. It is totally unacceptable that in a time where only economic growth is spoken of, large groups are left behind, far below the standards that the government considers normal to be in progress. That's what I said. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, on the kitchen day of May 29th. Since then, two fiscal bills, the budget of the last government, which a minister called a starving policy, and another in December, have been submitted by her own government, which is 98% like a previous financial bill. While there are indeed 2% added to the government's expenses for the most necessary infrastructure, there is no effort to improve the interests of those who are in the greatest difficulty or to address the growing inequities. So these people must call this bill starving policy. Child damages do not raise from the previous budget bill, so can the birthworm. There is no increase in growth, it contracts about 2 billion, rent-institution improvements remain unchanged. Unchanged money in the building of an apartment, though the most significant solution of the day. The elderly are not expected to be able to work and 40% do not achieve extension goals. A centigrade degradation is not expected to occur in micropigs. Why must I ask, " Where do governments appear to meet these people? ' Does the government take emergency action for these people, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for the inquiry. He uses important issues about the best interests of the worst in society, but he also talks about how we can get along on a global scale. I want to point first. According to a senator, the budget bill presented last week has made radical changes in a very short time since the proposed financial bill in the fall. That's what I'd say to what. A senator says all of those changes are for the better. All the changes are meant to increase here the equation in the community that I know we're going to have. A senator agrees. I'd like to mention, to make up a huge amount of contributions to the education system in the country. Hv. A senator quoted Piketty in the debate over policy. I know he's probably as well read in Pikety as I am. As a result, he knows that the two resources Thomas Piketty, a French economist, brings up to strengthen and increase the equation between the tax system and the education system. Here, the vastly advanced education system, not just increasing Iceland's ability to cope with new challenges and to make us competitive in the world - it will, of course, be based primarily on intelligence and knowledge in the future - but also on improving the equation. The change in the tax system in the budget and what. A senator must agree with me. It's a matter of raising capital taxes here. It's also about increasing the equation, because like a whale. A senator knows, well-readed in Pikety as the one here says, there are parishes there to ensure an equation, i.e. to collect additional tax returns in that direction. I'd really like to say it because of what. A senator asks about the elderly and the desperate, that we have had a conversation with the leading men of disability. It's time to have an active conversation with these groups and work fast, so hopefully right away in the financial strategy that will be put forward in spring we'll have an idea where we're headed. I think that's what. A senator and I would agree to make changes in the energy system so that at the same time we can encourage community participation and at the same time ensure a decent advantage to these groups. Senators, we all agree on the need to be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u4	Mr. President. I think it's a thin answer. I'm asking about the groups most ill in the community. There is no real effort to equal the tax system. The fiscal tax presented is proclaimed by a change that may even make this much less money than expected. Or should we use the 14 billion who go to a decrease in income tax to level the cost? No, Mr. President. It would have been better to skip that system change and use it to meet elderly, desperate, housing, and young people. We in the United States have supported plans for the structure of the educational system. We have also talked about the need to improve our health. But we, like the highest. Prime Minister, have also talked about tax returns from all the richest people in the country and about protecting the lowest wage. [[The president calls.]] They're not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u5	Mr. President. I have to say, "What?" A senator may think the answers are thin, but I can only hear him agree completely with me on the changes I was describing, i.e. of increased educational contributions, increase of capital tax. Hv. One member refers to the health system, where payment is being reduced, especially for those who are sick, elderly, and desperate. Of course, such changes need to be done and especially considered. A senator mentioned a cent in return to the loan that I think everyone in this room agrees that there is a need to reconsider. That's what we have to do fast, but I think that's what we're gonna do. One senator realized that when financial plans are placed in the spring months, there will be much more to discuss, especially when it comes to system changes. A senator refers to this and because he speaks of my words about starving policy, they actually applied to the financial plans of the former government. We need to realize that these laws are being made very important changes that are about exactly what was said before the election, if any. A senator remembers, there I always put special emphasis on health and education matters, and this financial bill fails, no matter how aggressive it is. A senator shakes his head wide high.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u6	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance and the government have expressed interest in making use of so - called more than their own money from banks to attack infrastructure and pay off the debt of state funds, etc. More than money from the Bank of Lands and Bank of Iceland. But why not Arion's bank? Is it because the government has given up the possibility of regaining power in that bank? Has she accepted that it was turned on, and indeed the last government, too, of the hedge fund that has managed to sell the bank to herself on discount? What's government policy on Arion's bank? Does she not take advantage of the prerogative that exists because of the way things were handled? Tells you the highest. Ministers still good for the Icelandic financial system, the Icelandic banking system, to get in there a hedge fund as the biggest owners of the bank? Does he not feel that this is a threat to the stability of the system? Does he believe that it was the right decision for the government to authorize it? Does he therefore disagree that it is proper to make use of the premarital rights? There's one thing, Mr. President, but the rest, the rest. Because the bank hasn't been sold all over. The reports now show that there is an interest in registering stocks in Arion Bank in the stock market and that the government is asking for a prenup on the rest so that it can succeed. Very much. The secretary of finance recommends that the state issue its prenuptials of the rest of the stocks so that the bank can be registered in the market? Will he do this before the release of the Government's White Book on finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u7	A respectable president. This question is first of all, what does it mean to pay money from the financial system and the possibility to use money now established in Iceland's financial system to continue building up our country? I've had a very clear course there and talked to her for a long time. I think it's an opportunity to rid the government of financial assets, first of all, by selling stock in years to come, and is the white book necessary for making major decisions on the subject. Second, if the banks continue to pay on interest, as they have done in recent years. In recent years alone, over 100 billion have been exploited for this purpose. And third, with special contributions that might be helpful. You know, about the premium as good as any. The senator referred to it was presented and discussed at the previous level on the World Economic and Business Committee. That may be, and I see it at the council decree at any moment. A senator, along with others, has offered a different view of whether that right of purchase was present. But it became the result of the government, the Ministry of finance at the time, it was introduced, and was not objected to by the majority of the Economic and Business Committees, that the terms of the government's using premium rights were not present. It was on the basis of stability conditions made in time by governments. A senator sat in his seat together. No doubt there is some disagreement, and it seems only to me that it is taken into consideration. I can only see that so far men have been working on this case on the right terms. Regarding whether the state will obtain premium on the market registration of the bank, the rules for which it is written have also been written in the stabilisation conditions made. In certain cases, the premium is not activated, and it does not exist for those here who fail to obtain the premarital rights if they are present.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u8	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The minister will discuss this more fully when we address a Senate resolution proposed by the Central Party on Arion Bank. But I thought the last one was the highest. A somewhat interesting minister, that under certain circumstances would not develop this premium. It's the highest. One minister who says to open some gap, tells them that they can find a way past the prenup, just as they found a way to sell the bank to themselves and avoid what was going on in the stability conditions of the Supreme Court. Minister mentioned? You can remember for the highest. A minister of the Council of Buy has to pay a bill to the state within a year because of the stability, stability, on which they were built. This has to happen with what happens to the Council. Is the minister's opinion that he will authorize the surrender of the premium to receive this debt, or does he consider it more desirable for the state to obtain the bank and thus receive this payment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u9	A respectable president. I'm merely referring to what has been written in the stability conditions. It is written there that the right to marry is there. Of course, it was the main concern of people not selling themselves into financial businesses at some price to avoid the expected influence of the stability conditions. However, it says that for market-related sales, special arrangements are being taken. So it is a cautionary step regarding the premarital arrangement, and now with this arrangement written in your hands, it is only natural that you just refer to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u10	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister will be talking about restoring trust in politics after the breakdown of the postmortem and the trust that then arose between Congress and nation. Now, governments of the post - years have failed to build this trust by e.g. disregarding the nation's will or not keeping the promise made. An example of this irrefutable way of ruling is a continuing neglect of the majority of the council to do the people's will and to put here a new constitution based on the proposals of a government body. Government Commander. The prime minister suggests that while the hope shown here remains high, it should still be postponed. The prime minister will pursue the case during the upcoming term. All right, more on that later. My question turns to a different kind of commitment of this council, but it's just the same thing. Mr. President. In the government's contract, this is stated, by permission of the president: In Europe, the government wants to look for ways to reduce financial management. Clearly, though, government funds will be leading investments in at least one systematicly important financial institution. So I want to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that there is the right to sell part of the state in the banks, so I'm going to take this monasteries over to human affairs, and the highest plans. Prime Minister on promoting the confidence of the public in politics, whether the government will do the will of the Council since 2012 for a study of the private development of the banks in its entirety, and whether this investigation will be terminated before further sales of banks take place. We're going to have a government. Will the prime minister be assured to investigate the overall privatization of the banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, in fact, addressed several issues. First, the General Review of the Constitution. I want to take this opportunity, though. A senator may not have asked about it directly, but in view of the fact that there may not be many questions here at the council, saying that I intend to request a meeting with the presidents of every assembly early after the year to review that matter as soon as possible at the beginning of a new assembly. My hope is this, in the light of that, as of a crown. A senator well knows that there are contrasts between viewpoints and categories in this matter, that we can at least agree on the process in which we would like to put this overall review into. Hv. A senator knows my vision of this matter, and I know the vision of most classes in it, perhaps not the classes that are new at the council. I think it's important that we sit down and try to agree on some process, and I hope that soon after a new year it will work out. Hv. A senator will then discuss the banks, the government covenant, and what is said about financial institutions there. It quotes our plans that we will also have a conversation with all classes at the council, i.e. We'd like to attack the preparation of so - called White Books on the financial system to meet what has been commonly discussed here at Congress that there is a future view of the financial system. Today, much has been done in recent years to improve financial markets. However, there are many special situations in this country, and it is important that we take our stand on the issues of opinion that have existed. For the study as a result. A senator refers to a case mentioned here after introducing the results of a study of the Privacy of the Farm Bank and the Parts of Hauck & Aufäuzer in this case, there is a case on the board of administration and monitoring committees. I'd recommend a new president of what happened. The Commission and the Commission took this matter up on the Committee and the Committee concluded its discussion on this matter, i.e. would take into account the data currently available in the treatment of the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I would like to reiterate my question and ask if there is any right to wait for any further sale on the bank part until the investigation has been completed. I'd like the answer. And in view of the latest news, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers with discussions of trust in politicians, to new reports from the Supreme Court at the highest level. The Minister of Justice is judged guilty at Article 10. Government law, by the order of a judge in the court of the land. Trust the highest. Prime Minister. Minister of Justice to persevere in his position? Is it possible to build confidence in political affairs in public that it remains there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u13	Mr. President. Hv. In fact, a senator has serial questions during an incomplete question period of inquiry, and it is very difficult to answer all of them at the short time that we are given to respond. As I mentioned earlier, a board of administrations and monitoring committee with continued investigation of the personal development of the banks after the report of the Buddhist bank and Hauck & Aufäuser for my inspection, but I do not sit on the committee. At least I think of it. A senator was on the committee. A member of the General Assembly had already set up the committee, stating that the privatization was, in fact, a condition of the privatization. A senator refers to the big study report, the report of the Allied Research Committee on the Fall of Icelandic banks. Of course, it is Generals to determine whether this case should continue within the administrative and monitoring committee, and I shall return to the newly elected chairman of the board. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. Then I want to say what judgment may be. A senator pointed out that he was killed two hours ago, and I have not been able to go over him properly but will, of course, do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u14	A respectable president. I'm really excited about 500 million. which is now to be used in the dental services of older citizens and disability, and therefore, I would like to talk about health insurance laws, No. 112/2008. With President's permission, I'd like to read 1 mg. 1st par. The law that reads: The aim of these laws is to ensure health protection and always access to health care regardless of the economy. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Healthcare Minister: When is the highest? A health minister intends to negotiate with dentists and negotiate with dentists because it has been known that it has not been done since 2004? It is believed that with repeated regulations and changes in regulations long ago, the right has been established to ensure 75% of dental expenses for those who pay attention to their feet and in this case are a group of elderly and desperate people. I'm wondering if there's a brighter time ahead with a flower in the field and if it's to be negotiated or if it should continue to dangle like this. The fact is, it is estimated that already a debt actually owes 800 million dollars. In this service to older citizens, these 500 million. are perhaps a little in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I happen to be able to get started with all the experts at the Ministry, but yesterday I talked to the specialist who handles dental matters exactly because we now have the budget bill, which the council hopefully does over the next few days, except 500 million a year, and then I expect a thousand million each year to meet these issues. During a conversation with the specialist who deals with dental matters, we agreed that these agreements would be needed, and they would have to start this conversation with the dentist because this is a very complex matter. Our guide should always be to ensure full access to health care as well as especially for these groups. In fact, we discussed a matter that was valid for recording at the council, i.e. the position of those who are unable to apply it for various reasons, to form as a result of a bioavailability problem, the public service of dentists. There is something that needs to be considered as well. I'd like to mention dental services to people who are on the edge in many parts of society, prisoners, and others like that. It's all a group of paintings that must be underneath. But as I say, there was a 20-minute very good meeting I had with the expert on the dental business of the Ministry yesterday. I hope to have more. I'm lucky I had that conversation before. A senator will ask me about this very matter right here. But I can assure the senator that I'm going to stay on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u16	President. Thank you very much. A health minister for these mischievous and effective answers. Indeed, I intend to lean on my smile and to be optimistic, hoping for the sake of all those who for economic sake have not been able to provide for themselves the public and natural health care that dentists need to be sought. First thing we'll do is negotiate with health insurance, the highest. Secretary of health. I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u17	A respectable president. I'm only going to use these seconds that I have here to follow this down. We need to determine how well the benefits of health insurance have been in children's lives and what the situation really is in Iceland regarding dentistry. I have reason to believe that there is a significant difference between children in social status whether this service is covered headly or not regardless of subsidies. That is something we need to examine, too. We need to know what the situation today is so as to know our goal and where to attend in this group of subjects. But I completely agree with what. A senator's health should be part of a general health and health service involving our mouths on the natural basis of being part of the medical community in general. I give it a special pleasure having a team member. A senator who is moving ahead in this legal group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u18	Mr. President. I think it's right to use this first query time at the highest level. Prime Minister and ask about the elections, the implementation of those who are associated with me in my opinion of democracy, the structure of democracy, and especially national security. We have become a tangible war, and this is the general trend in Europe, including the west of the sea, that in the campaign, propaganda is introduced, often and often very indiscriminate, to influence voters. Rather, there is no transparency. Rather, it involves the funding of this propaganda. We know this, the Tatta CD that was actually put into the campaign to have a certain effect. And there are other cases at home of campaign propaganda that are financed. It costs a lot of money and affects the elections, supports some classes rather than others at the same time. We'll see that discussion. It's also taken west of the ocean. What is Facebook doing to the sharing of information, collection of information, Google, etc.? I think it's very important that all of these factors are being handled very well. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she will not join me in that situation, asking for a possible government reexamination to investigate the last election to roll with all the rocks and have transparency, especially with regard to financing. We have transparency in the possession of the media. That's extremely important. We have one medium of interest for fishing and agriculture. There's more for the U.S. supernovas, etc. We need to know this, especially in order for voters to be informed about what is behind the propaganda being imparted to them. I think it's important that we go over it well, and we get to the relevant parties, the Government Accounting and Others, to investigate how the election was conducted, to inform who was behind this propaganda with the thought of building up the democracy for a long time. We're gonna start elections this spring, local elections. We're ready. [[The president calls.]] Let's have all things on tables for democracy and for voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for interesting inquiries. It is true, if we look into the world, so that various people have been studying to create the influence of communication media directly on the outcome of elections, the influence of algorithms on search engines on the outcome of elections, where individual behavior is being moved far beyond what most people realize in their daily lives. I think it's a very good and important discussion that I think it's important that we handle the Generals. With regard to the implementation of the last election and the anonymous propaganda. A senator refers to and was a considerable subject during elections, so I intend to request to the political executives that they sit themselves, or the authority's right to do so, on a committee to review the laws on political affairs. Of course, part of what needs to be underneath is how to handle political advertising or political messages that are anonymous and their financing. However, I am very open to discussions with the heads of the classes, if there is something more that the general council sees to it that it is the right thing to do in this, to form a request for the establishment of the Government Review of the matter. I know that the managers of the classes have been in contact with the Government Accounting on these exact issues and what needs to be changed and what the law needs to be revised so that we can create a law frame around this. My plan was to request the party that they put together a committee to review the legal matters of political parties, which include: it would be handled. If the Generals want to come up with another idea, I think it's only natural that we discuss them at the scene, for this is a matter of concern to all of us, and that is a matter of interest to all of us that politics is being run in a clear direction. I'll be happy if there's any further suggestions on how to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister is eager to hear very fine comments and enlightenments. I will also direct this to the Commission, Reunion, that we are taking full advantage of this request by the prime minister. But we must not just look at this funding in our country. There is a much greater danger, or threat, in general, that threatens democracy. We Icelanders are faced with opening routes to the north. There are great interests involved. Can certain elements that would like to avail themselves of it go into financing specific groups, political parties? Or the companies who want to run a more massive search for oil, will they go in some way to finance, direct or indirect political parties? This is what we have to inform the public about. Therefore, as soon as I want to know, I welcome a positive thought to the Prime Minister that I will emphasize that a state reexamination for these last elections, they will be examined, that we try to learn from the experience we had there, but also possibly followed by a petition here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u21	Mr. President. I agree with the views that go by. A senator in terms of the need to guide us in all the political activity in this country. Hv. A senator gave various examples. I don't mean to evaluate the practicality of their future, but I think it's more important to be prepared, as it were. One senator says that we will study that discussion as it is on a global scale. There may be more fields than just the Commission committee of the classes that are suitable for this. We should also discuss these matters here at the council. I think it's one of the issues we're supposed to discuss at the front of the clans and see which path we want to see to it. I will request to the executives for a committee over which political parties and the box on that matter will be arranged and will hope that the work will be successful. But I believe it may be discussed in a broader context here at the council, at some point within the council. I agree with that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u22	President. Why do we need new tactics? That's a bit of a complicated question. I say yes, we need a new strategy, but what kind of practice is that supposed to be, and why? It is not entirely possible to answer until we understand the problem. To do so, we need to tell others what we think and ask them what they think is wrong, which is the purpose of this discussion. We're all asking ourselves what we think is wrong with us. If we can then agree on what is wrong, we can try to resolve the problems. I'm trying to say in all too short terms what I think is mainly in the General Assembly, although there are other things. I admit that my remarks are general but not absolute, but because they are general but not rare, these are problems. The problem with me is two kinds, human and systematic. The human problem reveals that this is a person's experience or that he is being approached. Nothing is made of anything or made of nothing. People are given opinions. No one will admit to making mistakes. It's not a complete list, but I think you know what I mean. Then there's the other problem, the system. It affects what we do and what we say. We're dealing with a systematic balance of power. The greater part is complete, except for one thing; the filibusters and the effects of filibusters in the Senate work. The greater part of it alone is not a problem. Of course, much of it is. That's how democracy works. But we know that power can be abused. That is why we set rules, to protect ourselves from abuse. That's why we have, for example. human rights, to protect minorities from abuse of power. The rules that defend the smaller part of a council for abuse of power are simple, in fact, simple because there is only one rule; freedom of speech. Sometimes it's called a filancy because it's the way of power to minimize the rights of people, so I'm going back to the human part of the problem. Then there are two kinds of abuses of the majority. On the one hand, the larger part controls when and how a subject is scheduled, and the other is controlled by controlling access to information either through time or by lack of answers or by delay or by other means. Senators usually have very little time before the program, little assistance with technical understanding of matters, and very limited access to information. All of this goes together, and the chaos we're living here, so I bring up what's happening during these days with financial resources, that's a lot more confusion and more than usual. Generally speaking, this is the same problem. As a result, the discussion goes into the political gap and the human problem that I described earlier will take over the course of events. The subject ceased to matter, and the democratic process produces a faulty result. The democratic process leads to a faulty conclusion because we go to the man until the council ends, the case is canceled, and we need to start all things over again. It's a circle of shit, vicious ring. All right. To fix the human problem, I suggest four thumb rules, three for the board because it's in more part and one for the government position. 1st Ministers need to listen and accept criticism. 2. Ministers need to answer questions honestly and without compromise. In fact, I noticed earlier in unsubstantiated inquiries that a minister did not answer the question about the privatization of banks asking if they should delay or not initiate the personalization of banks until an investigation was made. That question was just not answered. This is one example. 3. Ministers need to shoulder responsibility for mistakes. I think it's an enormously important rule that we need to follow. 4. And this is for the government opposition, which is not much smaller: the government's possession does not make a gnat camel or a crow wolf, a wolf. There are too many of the things that make no one listen when we actually raise our hand. There are many solutions to the system problem, e.g. not to go down at the end of the council, the court of paint for my part and nation, the better expert support within the council, and open up committee meetings. I am delighted and obliged to announce that the next Pirati of the Allellium is the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an interesting discussion and good questions about improved work at the General Assembly, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request. I want to say, because of what. A senator refers to the fact that I have not answered a question earlier, that as I pointed out in my reply, it is really at the scene of the council whether such an investigation will take place, but I clearly stated that before a state's possession of banks would be reduced, the White Book would have to be placed on the cover for financial support. Hv. A senator and I will have this conversation later. I think it's a good switch for the human and the systematic. If we further look at the systematic situation, which I would like to mention, there are certain points that we have discussed in recent years at the General Assembly that make it possible for the heads of the classes that are now appointing government to put the Trusting of the General Assembly on program in a government contract. We do this, not as executives, but as presidents of the council. We believe that this has actually been a very hard move to make financial contributions to the Generals compared to a fall when it comes to cutting down funds to the council, so that the circumstances of senators to carry out their duties, to seek special help, to organise their own initiatives, have in fact been impaired. Therefore, we make more donations for the council now. I think it is important that, in turn, we in the company's priorities, within the presiding committee, decide how we want our donations to the council so that we make it possible for them to do their job, not just for supervision and maintenance, which, of course, is important, but also to show initiatives, to set matters up. That's the first thing, this tangible side, that's the Alllis financing. Then it is important to know that we discuss it at the council how we want to plan our discussion better. It has something to do with the human factor. Hv. A senator named the famous proverb. I've been very often accused of filing matters on important matters, I have an excellent resume in that context. I've always said that we wouldn't be talking unless we thought it was important. We are presenting certain grammatical comments, and what other options do we have? I myself believe that it is very important to have some provision for granting the council into a constitution, e.g. As we know from Denmark, a third of the senators could direct matters to national regulations. The question is, Would it not be that a third of the council is constantly making a legal hearing? No, that's not my opinion. I believe that the council would exercise this power, but it would be at the same time an enormous grip on the greater part each time to cope with the demands. Then I come to the third systemized case, which is the way we prepare things. It has been suggested that in this country, the coming of the Council is greater than any other member of the north country, i.e. The National Assembly of Iceland makes more political changes than is generally known in the Norwegian states. In some ways, this is because language is prepared here in a very different way. The senators get things raw, as it were, from the executive authority, and then I refer to a prime project, while in many other countries there is much more preparatory work, even by the presence of members of Congress. I've been speaking for that way. I think it's a good way to get better with the legal process. I have been criticized by those who disagree with me, saying that this means that members of Congress are actually in line to be prepared for legislation that they themselves are to handle in later stages. But we have a very good example of such laws. I'm talking about foreign affairs. I speak of the media law, which was not prepared by members of Congress but with representatives of all councils at the table. My opinion is that this does not have to conflict with the role of members of Congress to make such necessary changes in the case of Generalis. I think that this means simply that the bills will be better prepared for the council, the discussion will become more mature, and therefore we will not be in a hurry to discuss important matters. This is especially true of me when it comes to the total law of certain lawsuits. I think so. I referred earlier to a white book about the financial system. This could be an example of discussing matters from a mere foundation that we have not. that we are first, before we make important legal adjustments, we have discussed the expertise on which such legislation would be based. It is widely known around us that first a specialised job is done; it is put in for discussion, not for decisions, of viewpoints. It's turning itself into a law code. I'm not saying we'll change it all to one assembly, but I appreciate it that way, from the reason. A senator and a spokesman here spoke, as well as from what I hear from the representatives of all classes, that there is a great desire for us to go and figure out how we can get ahead. [[The president calls.]] I haven't been able to find out what I would have wanted to talk about, which is to be done by other people's agreements than a prime projector, but I may be involved in the second entry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u24	Mr. President. I appreciate the special discussion and the initiative. the advisor, the discussion of the procedure. She is needed to look for improvement in our assignments at the General Assembly. Many new ones are surprised by the organization and the activities of the Parliament, which are used to normal work, which has standards of performance, organization, and enforcing. I've often been thinking about the ideologies of streamline management, such as I've done it before, when a slow beating here in this respectable house. As an example, I think we can greatly improve our work ethic, that the Council's program is put forward here as soon as possible, with all possible warnings. Thus, there will be better time to prepare, more careful, often shorter discussions, and, as a perfunctory put it to the finish. Another is the hours of evening and weekends, sometimes to the night. I'm aware that from the past, it was reduced, but certainly the Council shows limited respect for the labour laws and requirements for resttime. That is not a good example. Mr. President. It is important that the Council cultivates as environmentally-friendly practice as possible in all areas, moving ahead with reduced paper use and electronic management and making use of technology as best possible by reading and comparing data that we are constantly dependent on, which are often complex. We're dealing with EEA data, EU and EFTA and what it is. Then it is my opinion that the Allied Council is to serve in a greater conflagration throughout the year with brief, natural breaks, not with an old tradition based on the use of breeding time or the use of a dozen in rural areas in the past century. This would put increased emphasis on practical, well - adjusted practices and legal practices, reducing excessive pressures and risks of repairing in the circumstances that would normally result at the end of the assembly before Christmas and in the spring. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson for starting a discussion on this important subject, which I believe has often been discussed in this room and in the community during the last year. With the permission of a president, as I went to search the world site, I found the following opening words in an article in the Morning newspaper: ▪ It will likely be late to capture the attention of many people or to bring about a hot discussion of the legislature and the status of democracy on the land. In 2004, Sveinbjarnardóttir, the late United States senator, had the daughter of Svein Bear, fall. Then, or probably after the collapse, I think that this is exactly what has caught the attention of a lot of people here in this hall and out in the community. When I arrived at the council about a year ago, I just spoke about this in my first talk, about the job here at the council and its appearance in the community, and thought that it might be our chief concern to be the one sitting here in this fancy Senate to change this language and face that we reassign to our community. The government is clear in the Treaty on the importance of improving the communication at the council, specifically showing that one of the priorities is increasing the independence of the council with increased support for committees and members of Congress. For increased consultation and a broader solidarity, non - political groups will be set up for some important work. I have to tell you my point, I'm looking forward to the project and I'm assuming that if the will is there in this room, it's exactly ours. We can change this. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's talk was about communication and the right to change views in his speech on the top of the debate. A number of fine factors involved were the prime minister and his firmness. I think the cause is totally ours in here. As one mother said to me, " Let's stop fighting and get to work. '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u26	Mr. President. I understand this discussion in the same way as the highest. Prime Minister, that it focuses on two things: the way the government approaches the smaller part of the council and the circumstances under which the Council is created to strengthen its position and to increase its influence, most likely notably toward the executive authority. If we start with the first, how does the government approach the lesser part, what's changed there? At the beginning of the council, we saw that the greater part announced to the government side where they would have leadership on committees, that there would be no discussion. I'm not at the top of it. The way she and her group responded when they were offered exactly the same thing a year ago, and that did not indicate a new method of working at the council. Then there's the budget and what you can read about it. Then we will see that contributions to the Commission are being made far beyond what is placed on behalf of the council. The result is that if we consider what people do, not what they say, that the project is being supported, perhaps at the expense of the council. The budget bill presented by the government, including by the permission of a president, tells us about $300,000 new team to go to the Ministry of Presidency: It is assumed that the Ministry of Presidency will be a formal basis for the coordination of the Government Treaty which has a continuous long-term perspective on the position of all projects related to the principal objectives of the government... And, this is key: ...and commission to follow up with them. Then there will be 85 million for such projects as the money policy, 40 million for taking away the filing process, a total of 230 million and 500,000 dollars for support of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for bringing up the matter, new tactics. I'd like to say that law is essentially a social contract. We're the law, we're the law. Therefore, the well - prepared legislation is essential. I liked to hear that as much as I could. The prime minister said that this government, which is expressed exactly in the Treaty, was to increase confidence in the Council by supporting the General Assembly in various ways, including our access to expert assistance, and that even more cases would be put into transverse labor groups, as was done regarding the alien law. It was exemplary. When I started thinking about what I was going to say today, I went back four years when I was a new senator. I felt that this language was simply intolerable, and I criticized it very much. That's when I was in government. In the meantime, I've been in a position of government, and it's very useful to take a seat there, too. This will help you to see the importance of the instrument in relation to the rules we have today. I am absolutely aware that we need to change the constitution so we can take the Danish way, i.e. that the council can bring matters to national terms if necessary. I'm there. About the continuation of the situation as we speak. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear came in, that a matter may continue within the time appointed. I understand it also takes a change in the constitution. I think we especially need to consider these things when we start reevaluating the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u28	Mr. President. I want, like the rest of us. Senators, thank you. The adverb for his initiative in this matter. It will prove that whatever it is that has fallen to improve the work here at the High General Assembly and that contributes to the careful treatment of the situation has fallen to strengthen the role of the Generals and to increase its way in the community. I'm speaking here as president of one of the least two council members. As for my body of Congress, we are all new and do not have previous employment experience so that we may not have much comparison, but there have been matters in the discussion as well as in general discussions in recent years that people know; indisprehension of action, objections to disrespect for the duration of the council, and here was the case. A senator earlier mentioned disrespect even for his work law. I think there is reason to celebrate this discussion, and it is safe to state that, on the part of my council, any action that has fallen will be supported to improve effectiveness in the activities of the General Assembly through careful court treatments. I allow myself to agree specifically with a prime minister who underlines priorities. I would also like to allow myself to stress it, as it were. The perfunctory, that the greater part goes by, is a democratic rule, but there is still room for the protection of my share in the work of the Generals. But, of course, everything within the normal range.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u29	Mr. President. This is an important discussion, and it is worth thanking for it. As a result, recently I gave a public talk at the University of Reykjavík regarding the project management and the Council, so I have only wondered about this. It was quite remarkable that when I started thinking about the place of the General and whether the Law of Project Management could apply, I began to wonder if political control could be possible. Can the legislation Work Be Guided? A basic law on this scene? We're 63 here at the council. We all have different opinions. We have set ourselves up to eight parties in which we agree on the main points, and then there is an arrangement, so it is a government, control, or memory, part of which all of this is being mixed up. The question is, Can humans have the same goals, the same vision that can guide this? When you do a job, it is very important to know what you're going to do and what you're doing, how you're going to do it, etc. We have instructions, we have a government contract. Is that a good tool? I don't think that's a very good tool. I think there are 180 projects assigned to us by the government. Where's the Senate's own list of projects? Where's the Senate Task List? She doesn't exist. I think there's a lot of things you can do here to fix, even watch. on project management theories. I'm not telling you so much about it. But there are things we can learn, we can do much better, for despite all the problems we are dealing with, which we are more and less agree on, and we can improve our quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u30	A respectable president. Now you try again to take two minutes to cover a rather massive case. The first problem is: Special discussion is a little short. I can't go into this subject without referring to the importance of putting our new constitution based on the Republic's mental attitude with all that goes with it, which is a lot of it. In particular, I would like to mention that ministers do not also sit as members of Congress or anything but, rather, do not vote at the Council, especially on the occasion that the people have the opportunity to make their own decisions. This is probably most important when it comes to politics. The biggest problem I've experienced during the council is a lack of time, stress, and lack of organization. It is often noticed as something corny in the city, and that is understandable. I probably would have done it myself if I hadn't had to do it on my own. But it's not about how members of Congress feel. It's about the lack of time and stress on the product, on the job. We are constantly on committees as well as in other places dealing with seas of temporary decisions and making mistakes when it would simply have required more time, more planning, and less stress. But it's gonna cost you. In my opinion, the entire session of the council should be taken for complete review from the foundation, the time of the year and the time of the day. One big thing is that the program is not predictable. We may never be able to set every subject on an appropriate date, but we should be able to prioritize according to an average of some kind. On average, this or the other side of this or the other side of the story, whatever it is. I'd rather not get into the government business when it comes to this discussion. It's already been all over the council. But it gets in the way that the government is under cover of much of the council. I think it's the root of a lot of problems. But now I can't help but take the last few seconds of my speech, a respectable president, to suggest that last meetings of the World Parliament's Regular Committees will usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u31	Madam President. I can't help but disagree. The last speaker to learn that there is a problem in his own life that Iceland is a member of the Parliament. On the other hand, it is true that while we are on the Congressary system, the relationship between the legislature authorities and the executives must be handled well. I appreciate this discussion, and I like it. I am stressing that working at the General Assembly is not just an isolated, sealed world independent of society's condition or, much less, the European Commission; rather, it is compatible with many other things. Certainly, the General needs to take a special look at himself. Surely, it is in our hands to discuss much of this. However, it is also clear that the way the European Commission prepares and puts forth a great deal of work for the Generals. Things in society, politics in general, it all plays into what's going on here. I particularly welcome plans to promote the General Assembly and that messages about this are made in a government contract. As a result, someone may ask: " What is the highest priority? The prime minister is here to comment on improving work at the General? But there's at least Two lines of argument: On the one hand, this matter, which in the government covenant, is now specifically addressed and even in the name of the covenant, and second, that the manner in which the execution of the Agency prepares and puts forth its affairs has a major impact on the activities of the General Assembly. There we can do better than that. I think we could look, for example. To Norway, where there is strong tradition on how large and decisive issues, policy-making, are prepared before they become a reality and are paid off at the World Council. This is true not only of bills but also of Congress laws, usually based on some type of white bookwork. [[The president calls.]] In other words, Madam President, this involves not only our inner reality but also our relationship with others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u32	Madam President. In a synopsis adopted by September 28, 2010, the General concluded that the procedure of the Council would be reviewed and that it was important for the Council to become and strengthen its independence and central role. It should be a serious criticism of Icelandic politicians and an emphasis on learning from them. The main findings of the Senate committee were that there was a need for increased independence from the Commission, more emphasis on the role of the council, and more professionality in preparing legislatures, as well as the giving of sufficient time for members of the Parliament to work on the issues. The Parliament's Committee felt strongly that the Council took its procedure for review and made a clear distinction between the legislature and the Commission. The Council is not to be an instrument in the hands of the Commission and in the hands of impalacy, says a report by the Committee. Is it not the time for the General to respond sincerely to the criticism of the II Parliamentary commission? Sadly, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and members of the judges of the administrations has shown no evidence that they are going to change old practices and, for example, consider government opposition. During the preparation of the council and the commission in committees, the EEA showed no flexibility and did not match one wish of government opposition. The viola and the compromise were all on the side of the board. The one standing here does not have much patience for the administrative part, which uses beautiful words on how important it is to improve work, to improve cooperation and cooperation with the government and its implications, but then, in no way, does nothing about it but, rather, does not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Though the nature of the matter in the form of a special discussion on this subject is somewhat limited, a member of Bison Gunnarsson for taking up this matter, since this is certainly a very broad subject, and it is difficult to establish all the details of short speeches. I think we're gonna have to watch action on the council and the building, and that's what we're gonna do all the time. It's a constant subject. There must always be a review. This is what I'm saying, despite the fact that at the time I've been at the council, there have been some changes in regulations involving the council. I personally have been involved in a significant change in the General Assembly in Congress, which is the rule of house to house, both in government and in 2011, but in both cases I was responsible for the outcome, along with others. It was a significant change in both cases, and in both cases, the goal was, of course, to improve and further the tactics of the Council and to enforce all the good plans that all members of the Parliament have more and less in these areas. I sometimes wondered if the changes we made in these two vast steps in the Senate have actually made us something. That's what I was wondering. I believe that if people are going to consider the order of the council and the council in this light, they will only have to appreciate how it has been possible to carry out the changes that have already been made in recent years. Have humans really taken steps to benefit themselves? The problem may have been, in part, that there have been very rapid replacements in the council, so there may not have been much intervening in the development of the project in this area. But I would put it into this discussion that it will be assessed as to what changes have been made in recent years and how they have proved to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion, and thank you for the voter. This discussion is very effective because we are now in the place where the matter is prepared and handled quickly by the circumstances in which we live. There is nothing to say, but it does prove to us how important it is that Congress matters are well prepared, present at a good time. Then I am, for example. to indicate that cases have come from councils to the General rather than from many times in recent years. Of course, this discussion is essential because we too need to look inwardly, i.e. to further assist with members of the Parliament regarding expert assistance, that the council is able to provide counselling and good help in preparing work. There is also one thing we should consider, and it is planning a talk period that goes on in many other places. But I'm also very concerned that there's no improvement, and there's no one to talk to but us, to increase the quality of what's happening here, to increase the demonstration of the Senate. Understandably, the public has no idea what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, and what we're trying to believe if we're not sitting here. But what we need to prove to men and the voters we serve is that the job of the senator is 24 hours'work. All we need to know is those who allow themselves to do so and those we are working for. That's why I think it would be a great improvement that in some way we could enhance the demonstration of what is happening here to the public to understand how the work is being done. [[The president calls.]] I think that could possibly add respect and confidence to the Generals again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The servant of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for bringing up a matter of this excellent speech. The man standing here has little experience in working and working at the High Council, but so far she has been happy. Yet, there have been other things that have attracted my attention. At my first committee meeting yesterday, one unnamed guest from one of the department came to say that they wanted to put up a bill after a year's talk. This may be possible. one manifestation of what many refer to as one of the problems of the legislature, i.e. that the project is about to get very aggressive on the park, and, of course, describes the reality that most of the laws, at least who become law, whose root is from the balances of counselers. Under the circumstances of working on a budget bill right before Christmas, we'll be in total lack of time, and these bills will have to be taken care of for a New Year's Eve. This is in a good agreement because of the need for this. Of course, it is not acceptable to all who come in that way, and there is a great danger of making all kinds of mistakes that are far greater than if time was more available. In fact, it seems foreign that at the end of each assembly, the council deposes a prime launch of some slippers at the end of each year. Would it be better if such practices were caused by all of us, then we must want the adjustment to be as careful as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u36	Mr. President. I welcome the concerts presented in the Treaty of the New Government for a new practice, though, as it were. Councilmen have come in here before. The first steps may not have given us reason for optimism. Then I have to say by word. Early prime minister today in various matters that I think they know well about the constitution, in regard to other important work, including the following: to inform the public about who are behind the funding of various propaganda. And there we are going to work on the opposite side. I'm gonna let myself be optimistic. A convention is a good place to work. He's very desirable. Otherwise, I and some others would not have sought to be here again and again. I have had the privilege of being in a government and government position, both large and small. It is an experience that you try to take along. It's very important to have a powerful president. I give that there will be no exception. My experience is that we have had a powerful president who has been able to do more with the Senate than with the Commission. That's exactly what happened earlier. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfursson is also a matter of how the authority is involved. We know from experience that if the government doesn't prepare its affairs well, they can even fall. So people have to be careful. I would like to point out that this is also a challenge for the media to participate in creating a new work ethic and a new appearance, a new approach to the council. I got a call last week from one fine media player on a certain matter. He thought it was boring what I and Reunion were going to focus on being melodramatic - we'll see how it's going to work out then -- because it's gonna be so boring. I don't Þorgerður headlines. I think it's a challenge for the media to join us in this activity. As spring passes, the majority of the section is being tested at the council, and it will be interesting to see how many cases on the side of the government stand are being established and discussed in the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When we start negotiating about the end of the council, we'll see if new tactics have been recorded.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u37	A respectable president. Thank you for participating in these discussions. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson said that this discussion would take place at a good time but that we had nothing to say about the situation. That's exactly what I think it is. We could do this well instead of doing this in a dog's pocket. We could do this well, rather than hurry to agree with the financial laws and not know what we are willing to do. It's been done before, we can do it again. The human factor has been introduced here. I'd like to repeat what I said about men's opinions. In fact, there were two examples of this discussion, though not serious, but just a few of the examples I'm going to quote. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson referred to the Committee's work in his last government talks, but the difference was that at that time the government intended to take part in what the lesser part did to the committees he assigned to him. There's a difference now and then. Also said the highest. President of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said he wanted it to be a contingency government. But what's wrong. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was, of course, a traditional majority government, a church council. Which is not desirable. If we were generally seen by a minority government, work conditions during the council would be very different. But the media would have to be sought. Maybe we could try that a little bit. Even the current constitution would do quite well if it was usually a minority government. There would be much more logical in it, such as that the prime minister could break up the assembly and the like. It's too short to talk, unfortunately, like a wag. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said. [[The president calls.]] But I think there are a lot of points here that I think we can continue our discussion in a larger field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u38	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion. I'd like to say first of all about premeditation that I'm glad that the government decided to take on the committee's leadership. This has occurred only once since this was turned into Congress law, and it was in 2013 in 20122016, when left green, and the Conspiracy took over the committees offered by the then government. I believe it was an improvement for the Generals as a whole that we did. I believe that it will be improving for the General as a group that the government has adopted the leadership of the committees now. I'd like to say about the work, it's not like the Generals were completely uninhabited and sophisticated so far. I would like to mention, as an example of good work, that in the Economic and Business Committee of the Last Parliament, then president, who, in fact, remains president, took very well the initiative that came from the management body to set certain issues on the committee's program. Within the commission, we had a detailed discussion. It was as if no one gave it any special attention, since nothing was intended for some newspaper headlines, but it made the discussion of the committee much more difficult when it came to points related to the financial system. These were issues that were involved. I just want to talk about the transparency. There's been talk of opening the accounts of the Generals. I think it's very important. I believe we can, in any case, do more by opening up a meeting, although it is natural that sometimes they can be shut down. That's something we could talk about. The only thing I've been worried about opening up all committee meetings is anyway. The senators wonder at asking the idiotic questions on the air. But I think there's something we're gonna talk about and solve. I think it's important that we go further this way, open up the meetings. So in regard to organization and efficiency, because it has only been discussed. I'd like to remind you that the Council is not just supposed to be efficient, though it might be more efficient, because it's a seminar like that. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson mentioned. There we need to go apart, and it is important that we not only maintain efficiency but also allow the civil role to exist. Then there is the organization. When I started here ten years ago, I called very after improved time planning. [[The president calls.]] Then it becomes like an addiction, to keep it in complete disorganization so that the interest in improving the organization decreases. But I hope that new senators will hold this flag up and let the rest of us who have been here no longer control too much, because it can, of course, be more organized than it is today. By the way, I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u39	Mr. President. Just nine days ago, we stood 16 women in the Akureyri Meeting and read accounts that have seen the arrival of the #metoo struggle here on land, while a number of women were assembled at the City Theatre and at Seyturus, doing the same thing. As I stood, I could not help but think how intense it would be to experience this revolution, to experience the courage and strength of these many women. I also had a bit of absurdity not knowing one woman who has no history of some sort of sexual violence and/or sexual harassment. I'm not divorced myself, and I'm afraid there's no woman here in the Senate room today. In the last few weeks, millions of women around the world have stood up and shared their stories and experiences. In Iceland, 419 political women issued a declaration on November 21st. in which they related that sexual violence and harassment are taking place in the political world. As a result, 136 accounts of violence and discrimination were reported on by women. Sadly, these accounts are just a fraction of the number of accounts presented. As a result, 11 groups of women from different professions and all with similar stories have appeared. According to reports from an emissary that appeared yesterday, only 4,609 women in Iceland have signed a declaration against violence and harassment, and 616 reports of such violence have been made. More groups are preparing the same type of action. Clearly, then, there are individuals in all professions who have to take this to heart, individuals who need to look at themselves and change their behavior toward women, including politicians. Although it was thus violated in some cases, the #methoo revolution did not start to attack individual sources, but to make the community aware of the actual size of the problem. However, the question is, Is the problem not deeper than we realize? What is the real position of women in a society that accepts as much sexual violence as shown in these accounts? How many women have fallen away from their work places, were kept down, and were told to remain silent? Just as we saw so clearly in the discussion of stigma, we must ask: " How long did it take to get a reaction? In the end, the debate is not really about sex or the male personality but, as shown in the title of the discussion, about the misuse of power, and perhaps to some extent about the image we have drawn from the typical manly person. How, though, do we begin the conversation that we have to deal with the fathers'empire that teaches boys that they cause and that it is okay to harass and humiliate women? Sadly, this is a deeply entrenched civilization, a conduct that is of no benefit, neither for women nor for men. We need to adjust our attitude toward sexual violence and harassment. We need to make changes. Although we're here talking about a situation especially relevant to women, it's not just women's business. We need men to get up and let them know that it's not okay, it's not gonna work out, it's not gonna work any more. Since we at the National Parliament must take this challenge seriously, I ask a justice minister as soon as I thank her for granting me my request for this discussion: Is there a review of the current legal situation to ensure the rights of those who report sexual harassment or violence at the workplace? Is the Ministry advising measures to cope with sexual harassment and sexual violence in Icelandic society? Has the scope of the problem in Icelandic society been evaluated? How does a minister envision a general discussion of sexual and sexual violence in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u40	A respectable president. I thank the advocate of this discussion that we all know from the media for the past few weeks, and it's very important here in the house as well. It is good to use the first opportunity after a meeting to bring this up. I think the President of Iceland spoke on behalf of all the people here at the Order of the Generals' sentence when he said that we were all deeply moved by the discussion that had taken place and the stories that have flowed from women who can report this lesion in which some form of sexual harassment has occurred and in some case serious violence has occurred. These are the stories of women from various professions, of various fields, and they are not excluded from politics. Clearly, this has been very many, and there is no reason for those women to be alone with these stories. Rather, they are relevant to all of us. I have a few questions that I'm going to try to answer in my short time. The question is, Has the problem been specifically assessed in Icelandic society? I can quickly answer that question: No, it has not been measured overall. I'm not sure that this problem can be accurately appreciated. But the discussion that has taken place opens our eyes to the fact that the problem is great and, in some cases, profound and varied. But we have some tools to evaluate this problem, and I'm going to get to it right after that. I am also asked if there is any review in the Icelandic legal environment to ensure the rights of those who report offenses or sexual harassment, not to mention violence, at work. Perhaps that question would have been more correct in pointing to the welfare minister, since social legislation on the workplace is a minister of welfare. However, I would like to point out that the law on how things are handled, loyalty and security at work, No. 46/1980 says that the sentence of the Regulation on the part of the minister is to be stated by the Directorate of the Work Board on the matter of planning, staging, and performing such activities as action against harassment. This Regulation has been established and recently revised, two years ago. This is Regulation No. 1009/2015. It, for example, clearly states that a professional person is obliged to let harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment and violence in the workplace fail at their place of employment. I'd like to point out that law is there. I hope everyone in this room knows the work that has taken place this past year at the Ministry of Justice and about the treatment of sexual abuse within the justice system. It's just a matter of looking at the law, a violation of public law. However, there is now an operation program on the treatment of these sexual crimes, and the government has agreed to implement all the measures that will be implemented and will be fully financed. In fact, some of these measures have already been carried out. Other measures will be made clear in the near future, and there are suggestions on how a process takes longer to implement, but it will be handled and prepared. I'll mention it here, with permission of the highest power. Prime Minister, to present a government memo on the policy and plan of the Council against harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, violence, and other inordinate conduct. It's a pleasure to have a chance to mention it here. It was at the highest point. Prime Minister forwards the policy and plan adopted by the Ministry Directors of Every Advisor early this year. On March 30, 2017, there were accepted rules and prime minister to the government, saying that all the Ministers of the Iceland's Council for the Management Board promote the presentation and education of current policies and social and equality ministers' policies against harassment and sexual harassment, which were valid for the entire Ministry. Furthermore, all ministers were suggested to investigate possible cases of sexual harassment, usually annually at the local Ministry, and to work out their results. [[The president calls.]] There is one aspect in trying to assess the scope of this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u41	V.E.G. President. As soon as I'm grateful for this discussion and the initiative of an advert, I'd like to say that it has been a chill to hear the stories of women from most sectors of society, not just here, but on a global level, and to be informed of sexual harassment and violence toward so many women that it is almost impossible. I am impressed with the women who have taken their step. I admire their courage and honesty. But it is also clear to me that the descriptions of fragility, human contempt, and violent tendencies expressed in the case of these women reveal a picture of a condition that is intolerable, impossible, and undefeated, and of all men to shame. To me, it is clear that all men need to listen, learn, and react. We individually need to accept our responsibility and that of others. We need to make other men, make them aware that harassment and rape are not men's business. On the contrary, it's not safe. It requires a wide variety of awake - ups in an effort to bring the situation to an acceptable future. A group of Icelandic men have come together under the mill # I'm a wide group of people from all parts of society. Our decision is to start listening and learning and then to respond. We must respond even. by being different names. There must be instruction on communication in such matters as street education, industrial education, and other things. We ourselves must take responsibility for ourselves and others, accept it, accept it. [[The president calls.]] I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u42	A respectable president. We've seen exciting events over the past few weeks. Throughout the world, thousands of women have gone forward and publicly reported sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and even gross sexual violence in public space. In the United States, political women rode on the ground and sent out 419 political women on November 21. Since they report that sexual violence and harassment are indeed taking place in the political arena. Afterward, actresses, stewardess, doctors and nurses, women in the University of Iceland, women throughout the United States, and others reporting on sexual harassment and sexual violence that they have had to endure in their working environment. Many of the accounts are tragically tragic and moving to all of us. A woman's happy solidarity is reflected in the fact that together they have found the courage to step forward, tell their own story to draw a line into the sand, saying: "There is no longer any more to this, that we will not be tolerated in the workplace culture and, in fact, the whole society is so exposed to the laity that we are living. And what are the tangible responses to these revelations of women? Is there an Icelandic community in their reaction? True, many workplaces, associates, and men at work have sent out proclamations in which such violence is lamented and many have taken action. But the response needs to be more and more intense. Who are e.g. The response of the directors of the theaters who accept the public money of all of us in their business? The media? What will the media do, including the member of the state media, to uproot and condemn this behavior and coolness? I advertise a real, clear reaction, both private and public institutions, to the reports that have been made. It is not enough for us to say that we intend to react in a physical way. There, Iceland's government has to be on the road with a clear signal and even clearer measures in all areas. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, it is not enough to have a way of creating revolution, stories, and words that do not begin revolution, actions and reactions that create permanent changes in a society where decaying female chromosomes thrive and grassers. Therefore, I encourage all government ministers to make even more clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter. With #metoo or # the Obscurial, a line was drawn to the sand, where women said that their bodies and self - respect should no longer be involved, a male toy with power, whether based on social or physical superiority. That's it. That's it. The stories that came out of the shadow of power are anonymous, and they have become quite critical of some, but anonymity comes from various factors. First, rather than the general problem that is being described, stepping forward and nameing are extremely difficult, and then the story is personal and starts to revolve around it. In addition, an identification of the name reduces the message being sent that we here describe the everyday life of all women in Iceland. In the third and perhaps most important of all, name analysis may bring charges, thus leading to significant personal risks for the one reporting, i.e. ... totravelingtheinflationofthejury. In this light, it is worth presenting an idea that I have heard many times about sexual misconduct, that a committee of truth will be established, where people can appear, and what they have heard during their lifetime, in order to get a good grasp of the problem, and in order for everyone to be able to express their mind freely and without fear of consequences. I propose this, and I ask the highest. Minister if he can think of that idea. In the remaining 15 seconds, I would like to add a question that is whether a minister has some kind of action to build a solid violation of the justice system. It has been made clear in these discussions that so far their experiences have been that this system is a shock to them and has failed to show them due respect. [[The president calls.]] How are you planning to go to the top? A minister meets this lack of confidence in the justice system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u44	A respectable president. Here we discuss a very important matter, the social media revolution #metoo that has caught many people's attention and moves on. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders saved the Elíasdóttir of Elias for her discussion and fine induction, as well as for the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen for being ready for this conversation with us here. There is no doubt that such discussions have greatly influenced individuals, contributeing to power, and encouraging each one to examine the kind of conduct approved in everyday relations. It is also equally important that in this hall we consider the role of the government in establishing ways to strengthen the change, including a course of prevention, practices, and laws that ensure the handling of the issues that arise. That is something many people need to do. The revolution was based on wide cooperation. In order for the work to continue, a wide variety of cooperation is needed. There's a key role in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. It's like the highest. The Minister of Justice recently reviewed the sexual harassment and sexual violence regulations at work where all work areas are obliged to implement a plan for prevention and action under test. Now I think there's every reason to look back at the regulations and see if improvement is needed. Similarly, I think the discussion must push every workforce, explore it, and see if the rules are adhered to. I see that time has run out, but I call them after arriving here on a second talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u45	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I say we men are supposed to say, "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This kind of bullying will no longer be tolerated. Send everyone who believes that the stories of the women that have taken place in the past are a small clear message that we will not tolerate such behavior and that it will no longer be tolerated. I think we men, because it looks like it's a really big problem and a lot bigger than I thought, you know, you just have to have a specific belly button exam. We need to go look for this little prejudiced, in our belly button, and there's no excuse if we don't find it. We're just asking for help because it's time. I can't understand why such things happen. I can't help it because we all have grandparents, moms, sisters, daughters, and if we don't have a lot more respect for women than this is. Then we need to deal with these issues because they are human rights. We will likely need to develop empathy and compassion for one another and stop all that is called violence. I think and I believe that if we get together, we can live in harmony, and we don't have to start this conversation again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Furbífjörður Elisdóttir for discussing this subject at a council today. The discussion has been quite extensive, but it certainly has not come to any end. I'd also like to take this opportunity and thank you very much. Minister of Justice Sigríður Andersen for her words at the outset. They promise good promises of government response in these matters. I believe that by 2017, I will go to logs as a year when sexual violence, harassment, and force would end. The women who went out and told of an elevator like a rock, gave the tone that allows us to continue our discussion, put us together for a better culture, and increased respect when it comes to dealing with the sexes. You see, we need a solidarity on this new note so that the #methoo revolution will really have an effect on all of us. I'd like to use the time to mention two things: First, it's empty business to talk about that me and Iceland live in a social setting when it's part of the reality of women and to this part of the accepted reality of women to experience violence in games and jobs. Of course, sexual violence is nothing more than violence. There is no reason to label it, any label intended to reduce the severity and the consequences, to cover the whole act with some kind of party, some brand. That's just enough. A society that does not oppose sexual violence is no welfare society. Therefore, it is important that such violence and the criminal bitch get on top of the political program being proclaimed here. [[The president calls.]] And that's good. The political ideas about how we as a community are going to prevent sexual violence and how we will react. I'd like to mention another point, how we can use prevention and education to prevent the acts of acts of national abuse that are sexually transmitted. It also makes sense to be equal to school students, which reduces stereotypes and prejudices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Elíasdóttir and for this fine initiative in the conversation that all of us need to participate in and think about, especially men. We are fathers, very, brothers, sons, uncles, friends, and fellow women's citizens - but not gentlemen. In recent years, we have read countless accounts of most of the national fields of sexual violence. The violence of men against women, who manifest themselves in all manner, poisons the lives of all around them. The pictures are in various ways, but all of these accounts have the connotation that there is a person in position of authority, a male, who attacks the memory of a person, a woman, in words or actions. It is important to remember that such conduct is not a rule but an exception. It is a result of a privileged position that brings out a worse side of individual. And when we add to cultural habits, a poisonous mixture can develop. It is important for men to step forward, fathers, brothers, very, friends, women's companions, and clearly say that such conduct is not in our name, not pleasing to us, and culture that can also make us men suffer. As we expand and open our discussion, these cover - ups appear on one another, and the sun's blanks are lit up and there we are going to collapse. It's a legal matter. That's where we'll be cast, the high Council. But it is also about culture and customs. There comes the return of us who are fathers, very, brothers, sons, friends, uncles, and fellow citizens of women.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elijah for the opportunity to discuss this important matter in this hall. Also, I would like to thank all the millions of women who have participated in the #methoo revolution worldwide by sharing their experiences. They have given us real opportunities to stop the sexual harassment and have given us the opportunity to do something about these matters. For us in the political field, it is important to put aside organized politics and give thought to politics as our workplace and what we want to do with our political culture. Of course it'll come into play on how we're going to do our politics. It matters. This is what everyone, yes, all professions have to do, for it is pretty clear that no profession can be left out here. So we must respond to the challenge of political women under the heading of the authority to which more than a hundred stories of sexual harassment and violence appeared in the political arena. This can be done by a group of us openly discussing the working circumstances of the Parliament and the workforce of the Generals and finding answers to how the Council can make political involvement more accessible to everyone, how to improve working conditions within the Generals. You need to map and evaluate the size of the problem. We must review the ethics of members of Congress with this matter in mind to name something. We at the Parliament as well as in other workplaces have the task of molding practical measures to reform and, of course, respond to the call for women in politics, women in all professions, women around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u49	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you very much for this important discussion. Within a month of the first declarations in the shadow of power: #methoo appeared. That was exactly, if I recall correctly and saw correctly, November 21st. that political women first came forward saying that sexual violence and harassment take place in the political world. During the past few weeks, so many more women have taken up similar stories. Happily, too, more people, such as workplaces and associates, have repeated their stand against sexual violence, and this gives us further hope that the culture can be changed that seems to hinder normal relations between people. We're supposed to, in my opinion, - I restate - thanks to women reporting their experiences and experiences. I can only imagine that it is harder than people think, but some may say that this is nothing now, that certain reports under sex harassment, much less violence, but I would like to say that no matter what I think, or others if it is passed, of other people's records. It is every woman's right, and every man's right, that I may tell her, to share my own experience and experience. It's my job to listen and take to heart what I can do to change my community. So, my point is, what can we do here to make this fundamental matter a matter of conversation and thus a change?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u50	A respectable president. In recent years, we have been overwhelmed by one feminist wave after another. A new generation has taken up the cable that runs through the Red Soccer movement and the Female list and woven it into a new web, the web of revolutions that spring on community media and that have changed society. Yet, they want us to feel uncomfortable between social revolutions and the efforts of politicians. Let's see, for example. Free the Nipple, who called attention to digital sexual abuse in the spring of 2015. By the end of 2017, this law has not yet been passed on in judicial laws, almost three years later. It should be noted, however, that the present government has such changes in its policy index. That was the last one, too, though she did not get to write that chapter in the history books. True, the last government was able to write a chapter of the women's freedom story, just as remarkable. One of these waves that have crossed society, you see, the last government was bombed. It was an extensive chapter in feminist fighting history, the waves have become so strong that it is not sufficient to lean on traditional statistics for economic growth, economic government, and other matters that people would like to discuss about politics. But that's #metoo. The experiences of those who suffer from sexual abuse have filled with social media and have brought us back to think. Now we hear of changing our community for the better. That's what we do. in a Synod by putting things in perspective, whether called sexual abuse, harassment, a sex market, a pay difference between the sexes, a domestic strike, a sex ratio at a assembly, conduct in a Senate hall, or that there is only one member of a nine - man budget board. These are all manifestations of the Patriarchal Empire that we have to fight against. President. Let's be glad that #metoo started the discussion and made us all feminists. Now, let's all continue to be feminists and bring back a real improved community. It's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u51	A respectable president. The parade and the Free the Nipple were--you don't quite know what to call it; a big enterprise or something like that. #metoo, in my opinion, is no less than a revolution, which, of course, is based on the past. Sexual freedom is a rather modern term. For many, this is very vague, since interest in it is more recent in historical context. But I think this is the beginning - the beginning - of a revolution that will change society permanently. I believe that sexual freedom will be defined in the forwards of future constitutions. So I feel that we are all in debt to the women who have taken action and told about it. They are the women who offer what is bound to be a sacrifice, but they are not their shame. Well, that's the main point. I remember when I was young that sometimes it was okay to say that you were terribly scared of fags. Men who were terribly afraid of gays, it's almost awkward now, so to speak, they're going to think. It was as if a man had a sexual interest in other men, they would be harassed and likely raped. During the discussion, I remembered this one, for it is such a sick mental attitude. But that was the far north, and relatively short since I stopped hearing it. I also feel that there is another point: I think it must be obvious to me that the responsibility must be men. Of course, men may be harassed and subjected to all kinds of terrible things. But the amount of cases that throw away women is so totally insane that there is nothing less than something deep, something sick, in our culture that I think is highly established, very old. I don't think women have access to all the conversations and fields men have to try to eliminate these horrors. [[The president calls.]] It is our responsibility, and we must take it primarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u52	A respectable president. In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has led to the implementation of a community violence programme with representatives of Justice, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Ministers, Health Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers. That project is based on another earlier assignment called AWAry on Sexual, Spiritual, and Physical Violence. There we have opportunities of cooperation and work that can be used to get to work that now must be followed by the social media revolution. The current social and equal minister has already decided to appoint two committees on the basis of that work. Others have the responsibility of assessing the extent of sexual harassment, sexual harassment, or violence as well as the harassment of the Icelandic labour market as well as the actions of employers in such areas. Actually, following the regulations we have been discussing here. On the other hand, in the community action programme, it has been identified as the basis for more broad range of treatment options for violent individuals. In view of this, it has been decided to appoint groups that include the workforce. will be assigned to map out and define the need for service to do violence and to those who are at risk of crime. I think it is very important that the lawgiver monitors the progress of all these tasks in order to learn from them, responds by changing legislation if necessary, and to implement new processes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u53	Mr. President. I think it's time for us men to start listening. I think that would probably be one of the best things we could do when we hear all the stories, all the amount of sexual violence women experience every day in all the classes of society. We now see in the revolution that under the shadow of power: #metoo is, an amazing number of narratives of incredible violence experienced by women in this context. But this isn't the first. We have seen the march of the Drussun, which is another outstanding enterprise, primarily of women, to protest the violence and return the shame they have suffered because of sexual violence. We have seen a revolution like the Free the Nipple, who had exactly the same reaction protests against digital sexual abuse. I think we should start listening. But we should not just listen. You see, changing is also our responsibility. What this revolution is all about is turning bad culture into society. Our culture does not change in ways that are different from our own, not just our own, but that of promoting the changed conduct of our male brothers wherever we witness such behavior or violence. It is our responsibility. That's why Iceland's campaign has been taking place in equality under Barbershop, the barbershop, a wonderful enterprise where men come together and discuss what they can do to change. How wonderful it is that men in the council, who are, in fact, overly large here after the last election, are going to get together and discuss what we can do at the council to change this culture. It's time for action, too. There we have many wonderful opportunities, a new government is going to emphasize measures against sexual violence. For the council, there is a bill built by the restoration, and so does the Senate. for a change of approach to proof of the burden of rape. [[The president calls.]] And most important, we can support the work ahead of us - one of the last things I did in the office of Justice was to appoint two task force groups referred to by a former speaker on sexual acts, as well as measures to help improve the treatment of violent individuals in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u54	Mr. President. With your permission, I'm going to read one of the 616 accounts: ▪ About a hundred years ago, some men feared that women were given the right to vote. Who Should Care for Children and Home? And what would be next, perhaps a candidate for women? When the Women's Art was founded in 1983, the fear of bringing women into the General Assembly and even of their affairs. When the women's signing list of political activity becomes ready, I hope that their next fear will be that women will no longer accept their good counsel, their comments, their innuendo, and their coat. That's what one of the 616 stories sounds like. I wished for this special discussion because I felt that it was important that the U.S. Congress be given the opportunity to discuss a subject that has an unusually strong subject for a discussion at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I requested this discussion because sexual violence and sexual harassment are something we should no longer accept. So I thank the minister and the members of the council who brought up a hearing for the participation in the discussion today in particular. It was important for this to happen. Each of us needs to think of what we can do to change society's attitudes so that sexual harassment will no longer be tolerated. One of the first and most powerful things that all of us can do is not stand by when we witness that violence or harassment, react and draw attention to, except for, of course, the foregones. not to resort to violence or harassment. Finally, I would like to use the last seconds to thank those who have been behind the #methoo revolution in Iceland and all the brave women who broke under the shadow of power and told their story. We owe you all a lot. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u55	A respectable president. One thing that has stood for justice and even justice for cleaning matters depends on what kind of sexual violence or sexual harassment is in my view. We have so many stories about women who have not taken up early enough for the justice system to really benefit them. These cases may be handled by the biggest aghead. As a result, sex offenders feel that they are not only weighed by themselves but also by the justice system, which is completely unacceptable. I notice that in the Board of Directors Action Plan, which I discussed in my talk earlier, e.g. It should be noted that those who suffer violence at the workplace within the board of directors need to step forward within three months. Of course, if there is to be a time frame, all employees need to realize it, and we need to be clear about it. I think, after a discussion that has taken place, it will be much easier for those who are intolerant to harassment or violence to take action. That's what I think we must do, i.e. making it easy for people to step forward so that they can handle matters as well as they should be out of the right position because of them - now I must be a minister of justice to maintain that we also live in a state of justice, and here are certain rules for handling matters. We'll have to try to run these cases in that direction. This discussion will, in my opinion, definitely have the effect that everything will be looking for better. I thank the advisor and all those who have been involved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u56	The president wants to state that in view of the number of projects available before the council, an agreement has been reached for a talk-off period for the susceptibility of the council to pay for matters to go up to committees. A manager has up to ten minutes, and other members of Congress have three minutes, even though a discussion over which cases will not last more than 30 minutes. Those answers will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u57	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for building 5,000 cab sprays. Transporter is signed along with other members of the United States. House - to - house affairs are now in total crisis, and huge problems exist. The prices in the capital area are very high, and at the same time, there is a great shortage of rented apartments. If people are above their heads so much that they can smell a rented apartment, people can be overworked. Thus, many cannot buy or rent. Young people are not looking for a solution for the next few years. In the rural area, we face another problem. There is also a need for adequate housing, but the price of production is far above the market price and is not motivated to build there. The situation in the tenet market has serious consequences. Research shows that tenants are far more likely to have financial problems, and tenants are far more likely to live in poverty and poverty. At the same time as the rise in real estate prices by 94% in the capital area since 2011, the situation of large groups of people who do not have housing has deteriorated significantly. Visitors simply do not offer reasonable solutions today. In response to the last government, independence party, and forward, it was called a correction that brought tens of billions of people to the wealthiest of the country, and it also took on real estate prices. At that time sensitive groups were left entirely behind. And not only that, at the same time, the interest and child support fell to real value, but these are the resources that are used best to ensure security for young people and prevent children from being affected and protected between school districts, and they are constantly torn away from their friends and associates. By means of the labor movement, mainly, an important success was achieved in the preparation of collective agreements in 2015. At that time the contract was negotiated for building a public tenet. On the other hand, there is no mention in the government covenant. The question is, Will this be fulfilled? So during the last winter, when I spoke to the secretary of the housing of the new government, I gave this talk to Jehovah's Witnesses. Clearly, there is no need to repeat it here and better if the defence minister had taken the time to listen, but he may have done so on his TV upstairs in his office. It is amazing to see that there is no changing emphasis in a new government, either in the budget or in the government covenant. The need to take up this discussion and do something about it has certainly not diminished with the appearance of that government. Since it was born, new data have come to light from a camp loan fund that emphasizes the need to respond promptly with a much greater urgency than financial resources are being proclaimed. They show in white that depositors are unable to store up savings. More than half of every third tenant's provisions will go straight to the landlord. Now it's time for families with two breadwinners who don't have a down payment on an apartment and who don't have an increase in housing prices to worry about eternal financial gain, and for them the same economic dangers that I mentioned earlier between disappear and school. We need to build a wide range of safe rent markets and increase the number of housing apartments with public financial resources. It is important to continue working on such exports in close collaboration and cooperation with the labor movement, which has ensured the results of collective labour agreements. Then came funding to build 2,300 common rented apartments. The synonyms suggest that the plans for them be doubled, that there will be 5,000 general rented apartments built to balance the infected housing market, which puts too many in poverty, which is, in fact, a lack of place, which allows those holding their homes and making out the leases to hire prices at apartments. There is no healthy competition here. It's built a lot at this time. Sadly, though, not everyone is able to buy the apartments that will be available to the market. The coming of the Kingdom is needed to lay the foundation of a reliable tenet for the future. Thus, an increase in the number of apartments over the next year must be practical for society all, not just for those who have money or for those who are quick to pursue it. Mr. President. The government needs a careful approach. She needs to work closely with the rural communities in the country and with the camp loans. The need is primarily considered for new housing and to ensure that the building work is done there. To put things in perspective, the camp loan fund, e.g. that by the end of 2019 there will be a need for 9,000 apartments in the country and more than 2,000 apartments every year thereafter. Therefore, the establishment of the government of 5,000 apartments under the Parliamentary arrangement is proposed on the basis of the General Relations Act, No. 52/2016, then the independence party and the forwarding party were in the very government, so they must support this case. Strong communities that rent apartments without profit are a very important part of neighboring housing systems. We need to head there. But this doesn't exist to a sufficient extent in Iceland. It promotes instability and poverty. So I challenge the body of Congress to accept these suggestions carefully and to consider them the necessary improvements the council considers necessary. But we need to do something to meet people who are not able to enjoy their fruits and build a healthy tenet for the future. We owe tenants and young people who can't handle payment to buy their first apartment a lot better resources. In fact, we owe to all the people in the country who have the worst choice to do something about it. Despite all the basic human needs and the clearest example of the security to be enjoyed by all of us. Therefore, the official must go much harder on earth and take along with this one of the many necessary steps that must be taken in the fight against poverty in the land. Indeed, the suggestion costs a shilling, some 2◯3 billion a year for the next few years. However, this is a single - change operation, and it is the very option to make use of this mass - scale profit from banks in such a procedure that does not contribute to a lasting expansion. Finally, I believe that a powerful steady tenet is a very reasonable investment and will make a difference for the lives of the people now but also for the next tens and hundreds of years. Finally, I suggest that when this discussion is completed, the matter will be referred to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u58	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Logi of Einarsson's for this fine passage and this fine counciling proposal. As noted in his case, there is a great worldwide need. I contend that fear of homelessness or too poor to live in is simply nationally adverse. You see, people who are concerned about their housing will not be able to do everything they want. It is also disturbing that people do not have a roof over their heads. However, the lack of housing means not only that people have a roof over their heads but also that people have too small a roof, too low on roof, too expensive, a roof that leaks, or a roof that weakens people because of molds and the like. That's the problem. Then we've got an emergency. It was a fine article, according to Rafn Hafþórsson in the reactor, that it takes about 34 hours to build a 120 square - square - foot [120 square m] apartment at work. If we assume that there are 2,000 apartments a year, as Ævar Rafn does in this article, it is 200,000 square feet [300,000 square meters] or 8,160 square feet [8160 km]. hours. The problem is that we need more resources, i.e. a qualified professional labor force capable of doing all this work. Part of the longer-term solution is to promote industrial education and make the industry more desirable, but at the present time it is harder to get enough work force to solve all these problems. Then there's the economic problem. Building up is what it is. It is more expensive to build if the demand for work is greater than the oer. We know it's complicated to do this, including. Because property needs to be assigned, and it takes time to care for it. Achieving social housing has been a success in the development of rural areas. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson set out an excellent request on this last group, a inquiry that brought in numbers that were not quite good enough. The question is, What are we going to do? This suggestion suggests that we do not simply trust the market in blindness, as has often been suggested but take a good injection. True, it is unclear how much housing is missing. Depending on whom you ask, it is 1,500 or 9,000 apartments. The figure 1,500 comes from Reykjavíkurburg, 9,000 from an apartment loan fund. Well, I'm a bit bent on trusting the bigger number, but I don't think the data's good enough. But we need this injection. The Pirata's shadow code at its time suggested a significantly greater injection than this. [[The president calls.]] At least this is moving far in the right direction, and I thank you for a good suggestion that I hope to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u59	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for interpretation of the construction of 5,000 rentals. I don't think we're going to have any kind of emergency problems at a housing market. He is, as is properly pointed out in this body of interpretation, mainly a huge market supply problem, not just the tenets but the general availability of every real estate into the market. There is a particularly striking shortage of small, practical apartments, whether for rent or for purchase. It's very bad to see that, despite all the discussion that's been going through, I'd say at least In the last eight years, the importance of increasing small, efficient apartments, in terms of difficult economic conditions, etc., has been extremely low in these substances. Farmers have to look to their responsibility there, for it is, of course, within the organizational authority of the rural communities where the possibility to ensure the right supply of apartments lies primarily, to place specific construction areas under the construction of small and mediumsized apartments. We know that the economic motivation is to build as large and expensive as possible, to maximise the use of building areas, to maximise the interest of the building project, etc. There's a specific market failure, and it's related to the rural society in the first place that ensures sufficient subsidies, as well as to ensure that the weights go to the existing apartments needed. It needs to be corrected. I can totally agree with the movers of this synonym that we could even do better here than plan on building a tenant. However, it must be associated with the financial frame set at any given time by the managers. Such a suggestion needs to be financed. What I would like to point out, which could be contrary to these views, other than the public's founding grants, is extending a reserve to the financial loans of the apartment loan to build social housing. This is quite normal, in line with the role and role of the camp loan fund, should not be overlapd with ESA complexs regarding the potential competition of the apartment loans to the financing market and may solve a certain part of this problem, e.g. The construction of students in students' services, while the Social Services of students, has sought such funding rather than the general apartments. I think it would also be more correct for the rural community to go to such funding rather than take advantage of the establishment of a government fund to meet what I consider to be the duty of the local community to build up social housing. [[The president calls.]] It would be good for all rural areas to shoulder their primary burden on the capital area, at least in Reykjavíkurburg, Hafnarfjördur, and Kópavog.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for opening up the discussion here. This is mainly an offer problem that we are looking at. In part, these are homemade problems. If we look at the largest rural society, Reykjavíkurburg, we've had very little to do in the past few years and all emphasis, in effect, on the urban areas that are building expensive stores that are far from meeting the most important needs, and most calls for them. At the same time that this inexpensive disturbance of property in the capital area began to develop, they felt in the position that a building order was changed in a time period by the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. It is, as an apocalyptic person knows well, and surely he would be fully trustworthy in designing apartments with everything other than a building rule requires, a thing that we senators need to look at, to continue trying to simplify the building order, even though much has been achieved since the whole thing was read here at the time. I think we need to resolve to work together on solutions that allow people to obtain apartments, whether they are bought or rented, who meet the needs of present but are not all framed into the same frames. Of course, they're big numbers. It's like whisk. Einarsson It was discovered that the camp loan fund has found the lack of new apartments, about nine thousand apartments to 2019 C.E. There's another problem we need to look at, that's the operation. I'm skeptical that we are simply able to build nine thousand apartments to 2019. Of course, part of it is the weakest places the industry has been in the past few years. I allow myself to say, for decades, where there has been a steady decline. There is another challenge that we must work together. I just want to reiterate these three main reasons. It's an offer problem. We need to look for ways to make an apartment structure simpler and more efficient and to open a more flexible design. We need to work on the building principle in this context. Of course, from the present level of national knowledge to be of some use in these areas, industrial studies need to be greatly strengthened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u61	V.E.G. President. It's a very nice thing to do here. As we all know, though large and positive changes are taking place in the seminary, there is a crisis. I'd like to remind you that during the season of 2013's election,2016, these issues were undergoing significant changes. They are making progress now because they are working hard, not on trouble, but on a steady level of work that needs to be done well. I agree with what they've brought into this place, that there's an open market problem here. We're talking about building an efficient small apartment of the right size, but it's hard to build on an expensive land. The availability of land thus needs to be in harmony with this. That's where local societies come in. It is also positive to see that many societies have begun. I want to point, for example. in Akureyri City, where there has been a start of building apartments according to the general system. Now I understand that the student apartment has entered the system. There we are expecting a considerable number of apartments into the market that will strengthen it. It's all about financing on the project. This has to go on. I agree that we need to stay close to this project and continue using the fine tools we have now and set the foundation for the season 2013-2016. But all things can be improved and done better. I hope we agree to increase the grip of young people on having their homes and safe havens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u62	Mr. President. It is of importance that the dignified Council of the United States enjoys matters that burn most in the country. There they are health and housing. Therefore, the synoptic arrangement discussed here should be welcomed, ending in a huge interest for the entire public. The situation in the housing market is similar to that of a disaster. The jungle law has ruled where buyers run to and threaten one another or try to get in the favor of real estate halls to look at possessions before they get into sales to get ahead of themselves, and on the other end there are tenants who have had to endure a lot of insecurity in the rented market where rentors keep rising and more and more and more people go to short - term rent to tourists. Here, the number of families, the elderly, the desperate ones, especially the groups that governments are supposed to try to support is always lost, the incomeiest, the child of numerous families, the elderly, the desperate ones. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, who said that housing matters are not only social matters but also health issues, because worrying constantly about where and how the family will manage their home for the next month or year is a major concern and is affecting the health of those who have to deal with it. In terms of the iatrogenic inducer with the proposed measures, the reduction in the level of hotel structure is to be maintained. Hence, circumstances in the next few years have the right to enter seriously. It is not impossible to react a little bit when it comes to words. paritaprevir Witchest. "Engthor Ólason's son. It is worth noting that the senator, who told the city's land map and consignment policy, was responsible for the land's housing problem, has had no more than 1,200 apartments in Reykjavík in recent years. Of course, there is something that no one could suspect, but it is a negative feature of the fine tourist stream that we have enjoyed in recent years. Mr. President. The government can, in the way proposed in the synoptic arrangement, take in a decisive way and thus increase social stability in Iceland. Social stability is a prerequisite for economic prosperity, which must always be the primary objective of those with whom we are in charge. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I challenge the World of Congress to vote for this proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u63	A respectable president. Thanks to you. I think it's very good that we discuss this matter. I'm not going to say that I feel that this fine conjugal proposal is completely complete and very well-expedient where there is talk of dealing with emergency problems with a solution that's a little quick solution, as if it's very easy to throw in here a number of cab sprays. The situation is that 17% of the population are living in rented camps today, while 80% of them really want to be in their own apartment. Perhaps I'd like to have a further analysis of whether there is a real shortage of rented apartments. At any rate, I agree that it is of course necessary to build a stable and secure tenet. If we had a stable and secure tenet, there may well be others who would choose to rent. As we have seen, this is primarily an offer. What is the blame for this? The cause is no doubt to some extent in the community, but not entirely. There has been plenty of property supply, e.g. in the rural areas around Reykjavík, but executives did not start building. It's been suggested that we simply don't have traders, so here's the importance that we further contribute to young people choosing to go to industrial and technical studies because there's a shortage of people with that education. But after a crash, all equipment simply left the country, and there was no money to attack the structure of this facility. This market may, in many respects, be at a preconceived position today. It is being built everywhere, and it is clear that a considerable number of apartments will be returning to the market very soon. Of course, the tourist has made changes in our recent years. Since this is true, it may be helpful to intervening what is stated in the Treaty to address the situation and to provide more space for your community to respond by making certain rules. There may be good reasons for doing so in some way. This also has a specific stimulus. I'm more worried about this market in the long run. If we look at the story and what the construction market in Iceland has been, it's always taken a very large swing. Of course, it is the most important matter for all of us that we can somehow stretch it out. All too often, companies in this market are running out of business, and the costs for everyone are high. There is a lack of stability and stability in the sector. I'm glad that this council proposal has come up and gone to work. The welfare committee, where you can call for reviews and take a good look at this important matter of housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u64	A respectable president. I just wanted to get involved in this discussion and look out for the national agenda. Granted, many of the capital areas are missing but also in the country, and there has been a growing industry in many areas where it may not have been much during the past few years. As the palms of the hands and jobs are being spitd out, there has been a very high number of housing for people to be able to come to that area to participate in the job structure. Therefore, I believe that there is an effort to get started, with the support of the state, to build a social tenement in the country, because the community is not the only one who can handle it. This needs to be considered in the context of the development of such facilities by rural societies, pension funds, the state, and even professional life. It's not going to happen on its own. If the social building built years ago had not been available in many parts of the country, it would have been quite difficult to continue building in those places. Many of my settlements around the country have not been built for 30, 40 years, that is, their story. More often than not, it takes a start to get things started so that all things work and people can see fit to come into the local settlements and be in a rented home and determine if they have the best interests of buying in the local place or building. To find the possibility of a future residence in these settlements, there has to be some rented home for people. The area of the country must not be left behind in the environment that is now needed for injection into the housing market as well as for furthering industrial education, we must remember the country area, and also smaller areas where housing is needed. This remains in the hands, supply and demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u65	Mr. President. Thank you so much for your discussion. No, it's not a perfect Senate resolution, so we're about to adopt a new strategy, so it's all going to be fixed. But a camp loan fund study of people's minds in order to have a house against having to tell the whole story because they don't know the rent system that is so mature and developed throughout Europe. It would be different if people knew it. The rent system people know here is so that you pay rent and they risk being thrown out every few months. That doesn't give you good expectations. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator needs to adjust the rhythms of the construction industry. I know about that. We do this by means of analysis and funding in research and innovation. Because we're also at 70% behind - we have 70% of the material, e.g. Norwegians when it comes to building houses. It is also expensive to spend more time building homes than you need. It takes money to create light, to develop, and to develop ideas that have been developed. I agree with what. A senator who mentioned earlier that construction arrangements had to be helped. We need to keep in mind, though, that people must not be affected by the quality of life and that such people must not be treated with special needs, such as disabled persons and others. So it is difficult to do so. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. I think it would be wise to look at the extension of an enforcing rule that allows an apartment loan fund to lend certain projects at a certain rate. I think it would help too. Building issues are not just social factors, as has been mentioned here. They are health issues. Most important, we have construction work in Iceland and the largest environmental environment we are facing, or where we can achieve the most results. I've been making a lot of money in a lot of last year's speeches. We need to work on building more densely. We need to cultivate less building, and we need to develop a more rapid buildup of materials that do not cover the environment beyond what is necessary. This body of interpretation is primarily a protest card that you raise to point out that it needs to be met by a very sensitive group of people in the world who are poor and young. Then we'll take the suggestion and we'll fix it up, put it in the right direction. Then we will discuss all the other aspects of construction in the country so that we are not in this roller coaster ride. It may be said that Iceland's construction market is the largest known Icelandic dollar in behavior, for it is naturally under its influence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u66	Mr. President. I recommend the second time for a bill to correct the change in general penal law, but the number of tourists is 12 and they come from six political parties. The subject is serious. Last year, 169 people visited an emergency hospital because of the rape, but there have never been more. In 2015, 145 people turned to the emergency room. In spite of this, the number of police rape charges has not increased. There was an increase of 58 between 2015 and 2016 in rape cases that came on the Strategies Table. For example, in a conversation with the Morning newspaper earlier this year, a talker named Gangina said that it was almost near to conclude that a rape epidemic had taken place. Twenty-seven drug addicts were reported at the 2016 Faramoth, and 13 years earlier. 29 Congregational Guards were reported to Stepamoth 2016, but 11 years earlier. It must be ignored. Sexual violence and rape are social ills that need to be controlled as far as possible with education, mental changes, and necessary legal adjustments. A bill of what is recommended here is effort in that direction. The bill means that there will be a decline in the definition of rape by the method of action. Instead, there will be consent, in other words, that one who has intercourse or other sexual practices with another without his consent is guilty of rape. Thus there is a lack of consent to collaboration or to other sexual partners, which defines rape. A agreement for intercourse or other sexual practices must have been made voluntarily. Current 1 mg. 194. gr. a general penal law begins with this statement, with the permission of a president: ▪ Anyone having intercourse or other sexual relations with a person by resorting to violence, threats, or other forms of illegal neglect is guilty of rape... Our bill assumes to replace these initials with: ▪ Anyone who has intercourse or other sexual practices with a man without his consent is guilty of rape... In addition, there will be a further addition to the provision: It is considered to be acceptable if expressed freely. Acceptance is not available if it is obtained by violence, threats, or other illegal pressures, or by means of deception or the practical application of the individual's error in the situation. Mr. President. The sexual abuse of the law of law is common in all to sexual relations and is intended to protect freedom in that area. The interests of those to be protected are primarily the privacy of the individual, i.e. sexual freedom and self - determination rights regarding sex, body, and emotional life. Thus, each individual has the freedom to decide to have intercourse or other sexual practices and also the right to refuse involvement in sexual activities. It is necessary to define rape based on lack of consent in order to provide adequate rights for sexual freedom. It is known that in all cases rapists are not able to resist, e.g. because they freeze or are paralyzed by fear. Research has revealed that this reaction is common, and doing so does not require much physical force to accomplish its will. Similarly, it is unusual in reality that victims of major physical injuries after rape, and the study noted that there were very rare physical injuries. This is shown in a 2013 State Department report made available by Edda ▪ at a time point in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Mr. President. All of us know a discussion of sexual abuse, how few they find to the police, that the reality is that the burden of evidence is heavy and, unfortunately, it seems, very widespread in our society. Clearly, the change in definition of rape to general penal law does not change the fact that the level of evidence in sexual crime will always be difficult. So this new definition of rape is certainly no magic solution. On the other hand, the changed definition is designed to promote a firm change in attitude toward the offense. If rape is defined due to lack of consent, the emphasis on consent will be increased with the investigation and the prosecution of rape crimes. At the same time, such definitions will mean that the importance of sexual freedom is made much higher than before, and even may result in increased education, as well as awareness of the importance of consent for sexual activity. It should have a general warning effect. Then there is a natural legal approach to the implementation of the penalty law, where the emphasis on violence and threats of bacteria and the sea has been directed toward the protection of sexual freedom, i.e. whether or not the person agreed to engage in sexual activity. Taking into account the increased knowledge of the nature of rape and the reality of the wrongs, it is the time for those moving to rape to be defined by agreement with self - determination, immunity, and the freedom of the individual. Mr. President. On October 1 of the past, an article was published in the Ul river's website, by Ragnheiður Bragadóttir, a professor of law school at the University of Iceland, in which it discussed, including the U.S.A. the subject of this bill. By permission of the President: In this proposal, there is a solution that accepts consent to the law and meets the requirements for the clarity of penalties, since it has a definition of when and when approval is not. In that definition, the same terms as those used in the current law are used. Hence, the bill does not include much change, but it can be said to be a normal part of the court's development, and it seeks to ensure that the law is in harmony with the common sense. However, the bill shows the agreement more clearly, is easily understood, and could have an impact on the prevention of fractures. Mr. President. By the bill design, there was also a difference. looked to a recent report by the Swedish government on the increased protection of sexual freedom. The bill of rape is defined by a motion indicated by the adjustment of the Swedish penal code of rape. With regard to the term "contact" in Article 1. The bill is clear that consent to convergence or other sexual practices must be expressed in words or other irreversibly expressions. This means that consent must be made or that active participation in a certain ceremony will be interpreted as approval by another person or another. No participant protests or resistance to sexual activity will be required. At that time, complete inactivity cannot be interpreted as a willingness to participate. From sexual freedom, it is normal for a person to engage in sexual activity at any time to change his mind about his involvement. Such communication must be expressed by word or other expression so that it can be assumed that another or another participants will be affected. It is not advisable to define too accurately what form of consent should be expressed. There is a danger that legislation that calls for a person's ability to communicate will not be in harmony with the actual nature of human relationships. approval is also not expected if it is obtained by deception or by applying the patient's error in the situation. Mr. President. The bill is a factor in changing attitudes created by ancient fathers'empires and is still dominant, or exhaling, in many places. I'm sure you don't have to remind a world of # capital, and then the #methoo revolution that has gone up like a fire in the world and is Iceland there no exception. It shows that society is exposed by attitudes and therefore behavior that we cannot tolerate. It is long time for a man to lose his male viewpoints that in many places reflect that in certain circumstances a man has virtually the right to have sex with a woman. We need to change the law in harmony with the public's sense of justice and use it to change attitudes and influence the more important aspects of our lives. Mr. President. Transporters rely on it. A body of Congress agree to give the bill a safe course so that it will become a law as quickly as possible. By doing so, we support and respect women's struggles.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u67	Mr. President. First, I want to welcome this bill warmly, which has been submitted to the dignified General for a second time. This is in the opinion of the person who stands here for corrective action in Icelandic society and the need for restitution of general penal law. In my opinion, it is necessary to explain this law of penalties, 194. Gr., because I believe that there are some precautions involved in society. In order to update the figures today, December 19, 182 cases have been raised at the emergency centre of the Land Hospital ◯ University Hospital, with countless issues coming into other institutions, other emergency centers throughout the country. As noted earlier, it is that it is always part of those who turn to an emergency room or those who experience such violence that cannot describe their negative attitude toward what must come upon them. In Agnes's Gísladóttir, psychologist of an emergency room, it was found that 60% of those who made emergency Hospitals sought to demonstrate in some way that they were completely opposed to what was going on, either by word or by trying to put up a physical fight. This shows that 40% of those who looked for either garbage or were unable to do so would express their opinion of the actions taking place. It shows to us that this bill is absolutely necessary. When I've been talking about this, I always take the example of breaking houses that are also in general penalties. If a house is locked and you haven't been invited and you don't have a key, if you go in there, it's broken. The person who owns the house or lives there does not have to prove that the person did not invite those inside. It's very clear in the law. There's always a broken house if you haven't been invited in and you don't have a key. Always. If you claim that you have been invited, you need to prove it. That's why I'm happy for this bill and I'm happy to pay it for my street.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u68	A respectable president. I like like the ones who spoke before to celebrate the manner of this bill. I don't have anything to say about adding for a reason. The vehicle crossed, which is fully understood in a report. On the other hand, I want to beat the fear I've heard, especially in one radio interview with another of the sieves. A senator's being turned around on the evidence burden somehow, so from now on people have to start proving their innocence. This is a misunderstanding that sometimes comes up during the discussion. I felt that it was only right for me to speak up in an effort to dismiss the misunderstanding. For example, it is possible to imagine cases in which two individuals are present and that some sexual activity has taken place. One of them says that it wasn't consent, the other said: "I didn't know any better than it was approved. Then it changes the case when this bill, I say, when it's the law, it changes the case in its character, and the question stops being: Were you not quite sure or what? The question is, weren't you sure you got some sort of consent? If the answer is: No, I didn't agree, it's a violation. This does not mean that people need to prove their innocence. It can't be that way with such a simple adjustment, at least not with this adjustment, so I'm sure. I think it's very important, which also comes out in a report, but I think it's worth raising a case, that it explains the law. That's a big problem. It is, in fact, an independent problem in my mind how vague general penalties are, how difficult it is for the citizen to read general penalties, and to discern the true rights of his rights. You would have thought that this law should be clear, but it is not based on these changes, the positive changes that have occurred in the matter of sexual freedom, and the right of each person to control his sexual behavior without an explanation or without having to fight something specifically for it. People have their sex freedom and should not have to justify it or explain it. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I just really wanted to strike that fear with some people. I've heard it in the community, not in this council, because I guess people have read the report well enough to not have that fear, but it exists in the community, always comes up when these changes occur. They're unnecessary. That's unnecessary anxiety. This is good. I insist that all people who read and study this subject will agree. That is why I say again: I look forward to this legal case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u69	Mr. President. I reroute here a case that was previously delivered by two of those who present the case now, the one standing here and the other. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who, in fact, members of the Agency, is now proposed by the entire Central Party and must be counted as one of the most urgent matters here to be resolved in the council. In fact, it was already urgent when it was submitted to the last assembly, but it is no less so today. I must begin, however, Mr. President, simply because of the leading lead in order to identify myself in the context of the present position. As noted, the fragmented banks of fallen banks agreed to pay the so - called stability donations. This was part of the conditions for stability known as the conditions under which these parties went on, enabling governments to lift capital capital capitals. In order to meet these requirements, modest items, a variety of property, were delivered to the State. One of those assets was Iceland. Glitnis's small farm delivered that bank whole to the state to pay a part of the stability project. In the case of the Council of Copenhagen, which held the bank around Arion, there was another way. It was dedicated to at least a section of the Independence Party at that time felt too much that the state had three banks in its arms, as it was said, simultaneously. So a certain compromise, a fine solution in my opinion at the time, came in order to cope with these anxieties of independence. It was that the government's possession of the Arion Bank would be at least ... ata timeindirected. What I'm saying is that those who held the bank had the opportunity to sell it, but when it was sold, most of the money paid for it would come to the State. In other words, the wealth was to receive most of what would happen to Arion's bank. On the other hand, if you can't sell the bank at a normal price to a person who could be trusted to drive a bank to the future in the year 2018, it was assumed that the bank would be released by the government, just as it did by an Iceland bank. Then, unexpectedly, the announcement was made at the beginning of this year, and there it was announced by the then prime minister and financial minister, who is now at the highest level. Secretary of finance, where they specifically rejoiced that there had been almost 30% of shares sold at Arion Bank, i.e. A divorce would have sold a 30% share in the bank. Some of these weights were among the largest owners of Copenhagen. There were a number of factors to consider, and I and many others already made comments. No doubt many people wonder who: " Why did men go that way, so why would they sell themselves, so to speak, to the bank? ' The reason for this is obvious when people put it in context with what I mentioned earlier. They sold the bank to themselves at the lowest possible price, that was, to sell the bank to themselves as little as possible, with the goal of being able to take out of it over their own money, and then to sell the bank back in one piece or two at a higher price that would have to be left to the State. This was, of course, an attempt to compromise with what was expected in the stabilisation conditions. First, of course, the current government should never have approved those purchases. And there's still no question about that, Mr. President, how it happened that these parties thought they had the authority to go to these purchases. In any case, the government did not react in any way except to make announcements, declarations that it was a cause of joy, and showed the strength of the Icelandic financial system that hedge funds were buying much of the largest bank and were at the same time ensuring that a share would have been given over half of their share of property. Of course, they should never have agreed. Some of the people involved here have at least one. fancy careers that have been behind the world's investment activities have used various methods to maximise their benefit in this work, including the U.S.A. Be convicted, at least one fund, or one of those buyers for a very significant payoff in African countries. It is obvious that the purchase of such parties at the largest bank of the country, a systematicly important bank, is not designed to protect the stability of the Icelandic financial market. But it was to be just one of the conditions that the government would expect these parties to have fulfilled. Of course, it is the same question whether governments consider it proper to allow people to ignore stability conditions. This is a particularly critical question now, when we see the difference between Anion's bank policy and some government policy or ideas at least, including the highest. Secretary of finance, to take even hundreds of billions out of Iceland and the Lands Bank out of their own money. In the meantime, let these investors take over their own money from Arion banks. It doesn't run into Iceland's infrastructure or paying off government debt, it's going to break down. To make a contribution to these funds in New York and London. Of course, this is an unacceptable conclusion and is amazed, Mr. President, apathy of the present government and the last government in this matter. It's not just weird, it just doesn't work out in my mind how governments have gotten to this. Happily, though, at the time, people had been aware of what might be called an emergency inhibitor and had ensured that if these purchases went through with a minimum price, or an 80% of the bank's own money, the state might step in and a new premium. It is now known that when this was presented at the time, the year 2016 was set up for the bank, and as a result, this sale was held under the control price, just below 80% of the value of the money itself, and thus the government's options are activated. Governments, both the present government and the last one, have somehow fanned this out in hopes that things will just go away. But it's the opposite. The problem, therefore, is coming up with reports that people are interested in registering the stock market bank and asking that the government give up the premarital rights specifically, step in and cancel their prenup rights, so that registration may take place safely on the basis of these bodies. I tried to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to the earlier day whether it would be possible on the part of the State to give up the premium. I didn't think he would answer that, actually, far from it. In fact, I had hoped that the highest. A minister would be in this discussion today so that he could give clear answers about what the government will do if she is aware of it in this matter. All we know about the government's policy on the financial system is that it may be possible to shape a policy later when a white book has been written and discussed. But in the meantime, the government is losing this position more and more and more, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to get involved, to put it in order, and so later it will not be much better to take over here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u70	V.E.G. President. Of course, I would like to thank you for setting up a program, one of the so - called senators. This case is presented a second time, as noted by the spokesman of the case. Not without reason. The reason for this is that the opportunity is now, which may not be readily available in the year. I think it's a little interesting, Mr. President, that there's not one candidate in the audience. During the last campaign, the media stressed reorganizing the banking system. Not one member of the party is here to participate in this discussion or to listen. And I don't think one lndependence man either. Maybe they've given up on it to get something out of it all. But I'd like to thank the members of the council of the left green, which is a board of directors here, thank them for being in the gym, as well as, of course, everyone else and Hrafn Haffni Gunnarsson as well. Then I won't count any more. The case is very serious. Here is a unique opportunity that we have to actually take the banking system into the hands of the State and reorganize it. Let's start with that, then let's write some books. Let's start with the present opportunity, then let's go make the White Book to process it. There is no need for a book to tell us that we are facing specific opportunities, that we do not need to write a book now. It's shown in the synopsis proposal. Of course, it has not changed that now the opportunity according to the bank's annual account or annual account for 2016 is taking advantage of this opportunity. I wonder when 2017's annual account will be settled whether the story will be the same or whether it will be the same or whether it will be the one to say, "Well, wait, it'll fix something or change, so it can't be used. But this is it. It's tomorrow or between Christmas and New Year. This is something you're supposed to do. Don't wear that half-hearted thing that somehow seems to be with the blessed government. At any rate, there is little clear policy or specific answers there. This is also shown in our synopsis, which some have been trying to turn out, put it that way. I know that during the campaign, independents minimized this, saying, "How are you going to pay for it? When on earth are we going to pay for this premium? It's just that because of the bank's debt to the state and stable conditions, it doesn't have to be paid, it doesn't have to rely on money in this way that was trying to make people believe in the campaign. It is now a death - dealing instrument to make use of this prerogative and thus reach the index of this book to be written. I don't know what the government will do if it's not to be used now. That's all I'm saying. A respectable president. It is still possible for those in attendance and independence to participate in the discussion if they have any interest in reorganizing the banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u71	A respectable president. There was a lot of complaints that the candidates and the lndependence always betrayed an election code. Then I said back, "I'm not worried that the advancemen will break the campaign. " I'm much more worried that they'll be true to them. That's because I don't often agree with the forwardness of the economy. When what is now the Central Party came out of the forwarding squad, I assumed, and confessed to the prejudice, that the worse part of the ideas that have been found there for economic management and economics had been there, especially when I heard it from a man I appreciated in terms of economic values, that the ideas of the head of the bank department were good. Then I ended up thinking, " This must be terrible for the Middle Ages. ' But that is prejudice. I plead guilty about them, like sometimes more. It's in Pirata's basic policy not to evaluate matters from where they come from. Now, I have not considered this matter much, only and I am just beginning to understand it in order to form some reasonable opinion of it. And the opinion I have about it right now is that I'm very curious about many things that are overexcited to me. paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, passed over. I expect the matter to be addressed to the committee I am on, which is why. The Economic and Business Committee. I think all of this is the scariest of cases, especially the price of which it's sold. No matter what you think or what prejudice you allow against certain political parties, I have to say that I am not a person for trusting people or institutions in general. I mean, a lot of institutions know less about things than they seem, political parties and businesses. But I certainly trust the hedge fund no more, and absolutely not to protect Icelandic interests. You see, this case, I have to say, sounded the campaign plutonium, as they say. I even mentioned it in a show where I was or what I was doing. paritaprevir We were Gunnlaugsson Gunuga's son. Then I asked if it was not a proposition for the state to be in the stock market, sort of, as it looked to me then, and it basically looked to me yesterday. But I've been curious about this matter today and listen carefully to what it means. Councilmen and members of the Central Party, especially in unsupervised inquiries this morning. I have to say, the highest answer. The financial and economic minister actually started an even greater interest in me and even more curiosity because I would have thought the answers could be clearer than this, you wouldn't have to go to the top. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy said. I express deep interest and curiosity in this matter, and I eagerly look forward to a closer look at it on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson's son, for opening this discussion today. There are two things I want to especially address. First, the importance of getting started in the restructuring of the financial system. Earlier today, there was talk about the rented market there. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson suggested that the state support five thousand new rented apartments. It went through the discussion that, of course, everyone realizes that it's all about growth. In Iceland, we're high, too high, we're real, we're too high. That's the fight we have to take. Part of the way to obtain real - life growth is by reorganization of the banking system. This is one puzzle for that job, a respectable president. Various people have said to me during the past few days that this is all nonsense, all this expedition, and all that speculation is that the state is going to buy a bank that has it anyway, and this is probably all too high a price that the government has to pay for the bank. Can anyone imagine buying at this price if the underlying value would not be there and be well beyond it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u73	Mr. President. I appreciate this quality but actually a brief discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson especially for taking an interest in the case. So I hope we'll follow along together on the Economic and Business Committee. It's about to end this huge business of interest in the public in Iceland. This is an enormous value, and you can see best from this, as I mentioned earlier, how large the figures are, how much governments think or see at least ... theycantakeoutofthe two banks they hold around, Iceland Bank and Bank. It would be easy to take about that. 100 billion out of Arion Bank alone, compared with the records we have seen, including Danke's assessment of the size of Icelandic banks with other Norwegian banks could be met all the conditions for self-finance and all precautions listed above, but still reduce Arion's own bank money by nearly 100 billion dollars. So that it is obvious, Mr President, for what are the foxes limited, what they intend to do with it, and incomprehensible that the government is not in charge of this matter. I hope that it will not be so that after 10 or 15 years, a study report on the type of error in this case will be written and will try to understand what the government was thinking. I hope we take that discussion now while it's still possible to intervene. I remind you of what I mentioned here briefly during an interview earlier today, that under the aforementioned stability conditions, Kalykön, a daughter of Buy, they kept their arms around the bank, paying the State bonds, standing in part of the rest of the stability programme within a year, or I think it's actually less than that. And they should do this either by selling Arion banks and using them to pay this letter, or by handing it over to the bank. This is in harmony with this, such as that governments cannot avoid taking sides in the matter. These people will want to sell the bank in a stock market or the rest of it in a new year, and then the government will be forced to take a stand on the matter. The situation will then be even more narrow if they do nothing in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u74	A respectable president. I recommend here for billing to correct the change in clock law, No. 138/2013. The bill's forwarders are beside me. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njlíl Trausti Friðbertsson, Ásmundurksson, Brondísdóttir Haraldsdóttir, and Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. The bill suggests a factor of 3,◯7. mg Section 5. The law will go away and we'll be on the 6th floor. The law of the law, on the exception of the stamp fees, adds to a new letter, as follows: The document involved in the sale of an individual in an apartment house. So the bill suggests that a clock charge for buying people at an apartment house will be taken away forever. In general, individuals should be paid 0.8% for the purchase of houses, but they are given half a discount if they are first paid. So here it is suggested that the price be dropped permanently because of the purchase of individuals in an apartment building and the first purchase will not be limited to first purchases. A respectable president. We know most of the facilities in the facility today, the lack of housing, and so forth. The greatest example of this is here in Reykjavík, where houses are scarce, including housing. by the apathy of the city's authorities, has led to higher prices, and has caused young people to have trouble possessing their first estate. Lack of housing has also made it more difficult for older people to reduce their size and those who have a full house of children to grow. I guess we could stand here all day and talk about the real estate deal. There are some things that need to be done by the government and other personal servants. Yet, one way in which politics can be done is to reduce the amount of taxes and taxes. Determination of stamps is certainly a step in that direction, and for that, I speak here today. A respectable president. The goal of the bill is to make it easier for people to own houses and to increase efficiency and flow in the market. There is a great need to make it easier for people, as it were, to have their own housing home, especially in the existing conditions of the housing market. Tax and payment of real estate transactions have an impact on the increase in real estate prices, reduce availability, and reduce the share of buyers and traders. From the above point of view, the removal of a plunger charge of real estate transactions will facilitate the efficiency and price of a housing market with an up-to-date increase. In real estate, buyers pay housing, as in the past, 0.8% paid in the form of a label. Consider an example. Thirty-five million ago. K. An apartment pays for nearly 300 of you. K. to an extra tax, about 150 yous. K. ... thefirst real estate. 75 million ago. K. A 600 - year - old home is the price. K. and so you could continue to count. It may be obvious to everyone that the payment of a few hundred thousand dollars on real estate is neither justified nor reasonable. It is also burdensome for individuals who are reaching out for the house market. It is known to individuals who have bought their property for the first few months. The removal of a single payment of hundreds of thousands is much better for families and individuals, especially during the first and the largest pay on the premises. That's exactly how we need to view this price called a stamp price, but it's really just a side tax laid on the citizens of the country. Mr. President. It would appear that the Kingdom will survive about a billion dollars. In income, the price will fall. Thus, there is a direct decrease in taxation. According to this, politicians cannot and must not look at things merely from the view of the State. There are some who fantasize the loss of the government when ideas about taxes are presented, all too seldom in this room. However, politicians are not elected to care for the interests of the State all the time but are the interests of the common people. The plunger charge is taken out of public pocket. For majority of the population, this amount is important at the first purchase. It is never irresponsible to look at things from the perspective of the taxpayer, in this case largely young people getting a roof over their heads. So I'll be here as far as I'm going to put them in their best interests and therefore put on this bill here today. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to the Economic and Business Committee and 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u75	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of elections to the government. The bill points to one law for an election age. In the shortest case, it is suggested that the country election election year be reduced from 18 years to 16 years. The movers to this matter, as well as the ones listed here, are quite a few, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arna Arla Sigurbjörnsdóttir; Bjarkey Olsen daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Bjölna Leví Gunnarsson's Víglundsson; Katrín Friðriksson; Jón; Karl Gauti Einar Einar Einar Hjaltason; Kolbeinn Óttarsson; Proppé; Logi Einarsson; Smári Mccarthy; Vilhjálmur Árnsson, ÞórunnEgilsdóttir and Eglur. I keep it up to draw special attention to something that makes me happy about this bill. Here are the parties from all the political parties located at the General Assembly. I think this is appropriate because the last time he lost his campaign year in 1984, when he left 20 years to 18 years, all classes of Congress were involved. The democracy is the joint cooperation of all of us who sit here, so it seems natural to me that we all come to develop it. The bill is based on matters previously proposed at a council, the first, in fact, nearly 11 years ago, in January 2007, so the pregnancy has been a few. Not all cases have looked like this. First, a synonym was proposed by a deputy senator left green, Hlynur Hallsson, who wanted a minister to investigate the possibility of reducing his election age to 16 years. Thus, several attempts to change the Constitution were carried out to reduce the election age in all elections. What has been done today is a reenactment of what was proposed to Council 146 and Council 147, which is, as it were, a change in the terms of elections to the government, which requires only simple legal adjustments, not a constitution, as it were of elections to the General Assembly. It is my hope, however, that this change, it penetrates, brings great happiness to the next district election that a body of Congress will see in itself changing its constitution around the next election so that an election age can be lowered over the line. The decline in election age is that a group of young people not only get a voice to influence what happens in their local community but actually direct access to the decision - making process to the same extent that we as the older ones are. Because we're considering this in the context of local elections, there are probably few people who know the local government's issues better and more closely than this age group who have just gone through nursery and elementary school, which are one of the biggest projects of rural government. Good point. Children 16 and 17 are not being suggested here to become adults. They are to remain children. It's something that's a little good for us that's sitting here. According to the United Nations Children's Covenant, children have the right to express their views in all their matters. We must never forget our responsibility to listen to children. But by making two-year-old voters an active candidate, I believe we would strengthen this thinking of elected agents whom I'm afraid too often forget to take into account children's viewpoints. There is a measure of concern that our campaign will decrease. Unfortunately, we don't have proper numbers to back up that claim. This is what the U.S.A.'s campaign study suggests. It's been done since 1983. Following the results carried out by survey, voters have been consulted with all voters since 2014, where they are analysed according to age, and their votes. It turns out that the participation of young people under 30 in elections is lower than that of those in their 30's. This is something that is being processed in various fields. Lowering election age may possibly be part of the procedure, possibly causing some interest in young people, but these are multiple measures that we all need to take at the same time. We need to continue to investigate the reasons why young people do not share in conventional politics as do older ones. We also need to support our teaching. In connection with the project # I'm ready for the 2016 elections, high school students' review groups were put together to answer the question "What makes young people vote? " These groups revealed that there would be three main points. There would have to be increased access to politics and political information, political instruction would have to be improved at all school levels, and respect for adults for young people. This is in harmony with the discussion that has taken place on this matter of the past and is something that is important to keep in mind regardless of whether or not we'll be off the election age. Increased support for contrast elections is needed. There is a need to increase the support of democratic activities within school and democratic education at all levels and to do all we can to allow young people to experience that they can affect society. There's something young people are doing. They often refer to the unconventional political involvement of young people. Earlier today, we were discussing the social media revolutions that have changed society in recent years. They are a fine example of how young people can break out of the established political system. So the challenge - this may call on us more. It's all about traditional politics. Conventional politics are not going anywhere. Allied governments are part of the reality we live in. We need to find ways to get young people in because we need people of all ages. We need as many willing hands to help make society better. I think these changes in election age can be part of it. The positive experience of those countries who have taken this step gives me reason to believe that. I mention, for example. Austria, which started by taking the step on a rural level, then expanded it into elections and elections. I also mention Scotland, where 16 - year - olds were allowed to vote for Scotland's independence by national law. As a result of this, the Scottish Parliament adopted an overwhelmingly large part of the election for the Scottish Parliament to be available to people 16 years of age. More often than not, President, it is the younger people who lead older generations to the future with their ideas of equality and democracy. By ensuing young people, children aged 163/4,18 years, a great step would be made in strengthening the voices of young people in society for their own good, as well as the opportunities for younger ones to mold their lives and futures in the same way that other citizens did. I suggest that after this discussion, the case be referred to the General and Education Committee. I'd like to direct it to the Committee, because I have some hope that it will soon run out and be sure, that if it is not possible to complete the necessary improvements in the case and to contribute it to early New Year's payment, it will be possible for two new year's district elections to come to the votes and work on making society better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u76	Mr. President. This is a very important matter. It's the perfect way to go this way, to try it first at the state level. Like what? paritaprevir Of course, Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier, but in short, I believe that the evidence is more than just, as shown in the bill's report. First, it's democratic, i.e. Gives more citizens of the country an opportunity to receive a democracies. Second, this is likely to increase campaign participation, but studies have shown that young voters are among the most interested and that increasing numbers of younger voters are likely to be able to help. Third, more and more voices are likely to enter the folk talk, which also increases the likelihood that new and positive ideas will appear in the public talk. Of course, there are some concerns that have been mentioned in the past; young people are more likely to be more impressionable; they are not mature enough to choose and are not fully informed to choose. My experience of working with young people and dealing with them, however, is that young people today are generally very well informed with strong opinions about things and have, in many cases, been conducting a discussion here in a country that has become an important transformation in Icelandic society. I think this is just an opportunity for the local government and hopefully thereafter for Icelandic politics as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u77	A respectable president. Although I am not involved myself, I support this matter along with several other members of Pirata. I think 16 - year - olds aren't children. I know they're legal, but they're not children. This is an intermediate between being a child and an adult. I don't think we should act like they're children. These people are simply not children. Because of me, it's safe to go straight into lowering election age to 16 with the Generals as well. But like a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson went over the past. It requires a constitution that is in its nature much bigger, and we don't do it between Christmas and New Year's, as history shows. But I support this case because I believe that youths should get used to sharing in their community and being allowed to participate in their community and have an uncircumcised right to allow their views to influence matters. I would even want to go further. I think it's important that at this age, these formative years, teenagers not only experience that they vote and vote for something, and that it's just a great idea, and everyone else gets happy afterward, but that teenagers get to make decisions that can make some kind of mistake in schools and other institutions where they're involved. I think it's very important that they get to have a real influence, so that they feel that the cause is important. But it's more radical than this bill we're talking about here. I can't help but mention a bill that's been put off. a member of Parliament, Án Fúðu Helgadóttir, to give rural governments a chance to have a different percentage than 20% to call out for votes on certain matters within the countryside. The bill simply means that rural governments can have a lower percentage. I find that in that case, especially at the local level, 16 - year - olds should participate in such votes, in which decisions are closer to the citizen, closer to the voter. I think it would further train youths to make democratic decisions and to see that they have an effect, whether to their liking or not. In any case, I support this case, and I certainly hope it gets through for the next district election. I see no reason to wait for something longer than that. It would also be four years for the next experiment, so it is to try immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u78	A respectable president. Perhaps it should not be surprising that I support this matter as one of its transporters. I wanted to be a part of the discussion, because I think it's a huge deal and it touched a lot of the points we've come into, both today and the high point of the discussion these days. Democracy. I have been radical in these matters, and at times I have wondered if being a limited campaign age is my master. I may not be going to make suggestions for that subject right now, but all the citizens of this country have one voice. The setting of a target somewhere will always rule out a certain part of it. I'm not going to move the change form of the material, but I'm going to throw it up in the discussion just because the rule of election age means that someone's always being excluded. This issue has been presented in the past. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in. There's been some voices in this regard, and here's been some things. Some have asked why they should do this for local elections. Is this government elections being used as some experiment firehouse for what should come? I look at it the other way around, it's actually an honor for the elections and the administrative level to pull the wagon in and, as we've been in here, a much more significant change is needed if this change is to be done into the general elections that I think will be the case. I think we're actually taking the step here on a path we've always followed, whenever that will be, hopefully at the next election. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son made many questions, and they heard about whether 16 - year - olds have the potential to vote. I'm so old, I'm so old, and I can see the year older than yesterday. It just so happens that it's my birthday today. [[Foreground on: Congratulations.]] Thank you. I'm 45 years old and I talked to people in the campaign who would get the right to vote, this proposal would become a reality that is much more important to me in many matters, if not to everyone. So I don't give much to the fact that something happens at the age of 18 so that you all of a sudden become mature enough to participate in a democratic society. I think this is a good thing. I think we need a step into the discussion that we will join together on the continued progress of democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u79	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words here, even less than my three minutes gives me, and I'm not going to surprise myself by opposing my language. However, I'm going to come up here and say in particular how happy I am to see it, and I'm happy to see the change that is made from the country's election to the first place, simply because I believe that this makes it more likely that the change will happen and that there are more likely that people will go all the way next time. It's not only good and it's necessary for our young people to promote their democracies, it's essential for all of us. I'm sure of that, and I'm in a position similar to that of today. A senator before me, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who was glad to see in a plow, that we can learn much from younger ones. I'm convinced that at this time, when we're dealing with a shrinking campaign event, some campaigns that we don't particularly enjoy, we don't think our community is improved, young people are even the ones who can lay the lines down. They're young people who know social media. They're the young people who can take us on, just like that. I think it's for our all good, it's up to us all, and I'm hoping that the General will be leading the case in such a way that we will see the local election immediately in the spring of 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u80	V.E.G. President. I'm not on this bill, but I find it very interesting when I read it and the report with it, including the thought and argument that young people 16 years of age get votes in the county elections. I remember now from the campaign campaign and, like last year's campaign, when we went to school and listened and talked to the young people about their interests. I also remember when I was a teenager myself. At school there was not much talk about these matters, but I remember one teacher, whom I even met in the campaign and recalled with him, who had us practice only in some time of offering talks. I remember that my chest was sparked, but nothing was followed earlier than 40 years later. I like this, too, to attract the attention of youths or the interest of rightly said in politics, so that they can be taught that politics has something to do with all of us. There are too many reasons why young people feel that they should not have opinions that they are naturally meant to have. They should have opinions, and they should begin to think of these matters, in my opinion as soon as possible, because it has to do with all of us the way the country is being controlled. I'm going to keep an eye on the matter for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for a very nice discussion. If I count correctly, I'll have three of them. Councilmen are joined by a group of supporters of talks in this area beyond the number of people involved in the matter. Although the discussion has been a positive one, we have moved many opinions, which is just the good part of it. There are opinions about everything that involves the complex machines of democracy. It is not easy to see that democracy exists above its head or that someone has a right to vote, as if it were not even a matter for women or under 30 years of age to vote. Some 100 years ago, a third of the Icelanders had the right to vote. It was about 3/4 of the Icelanders who had the right to vote last time. This scale is always moving. Like what? A senator and birthday child, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, mentioned in his case these are just boundaries that we pull somewhere, that people are children until they are 18 years old, that we receive driving tests at 17 years of age. These are all human sentences that we put down and can change. The role of these changes needs to be examined by the Committee, if necessary, for example. To examine the terms of local government, whether to have a different age of voting rights and a vote to rural governments, where local government must be legal. That would still complicate the system, but then I'd like to remind you that an 18 - year - old can choose a president who must never be under 35. The error in the system is one of the things that make it the organic system the democracy is supposed to be. Finally, I would like to ask the president for a mistake I made in a letter talk asking that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee, which was done last spring. Now I've been telling folks that the case is to be taken to the board of directors and reviews committees. I would kindly consult with the president to see if he will cope with my change and thus receive my birthday baby, why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, a member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, this fine case for a birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u82	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorof, no. 95/2000. My importers are a party of the forward party, okay? paritaprevir Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Þórunn Egilsdóttir and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir. It's suggested that after 17th pars. Let the law bring in a new article, 17th par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Parents who need to get maternity aid outside their home After the 22nd. The law's coming up with a new article, 22nd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Parents who need to get maternity aid outside their home It is suggested that these laws come into effect. The bill was first submitted to the 144th legislature and reassigned to the 145, 146, and 147th legislature but was not granted. That's what's left over. The term "birthal aid " refers to any assistance or service provided by qualified health professionals in connection with future or present birth, and is generally considered necessary to ensure the success of the life and health of a child and mother after birth. Since a group of people are not able to offer adequate maternity aid in their home, it is necessary to stay away from their home before birth to be safe at the time of birth at the time of birth. This may result in some situations between this group and those with birth support in their home country, so there is no need to stay elsewhere while waiting for birth. This bill is intended to correct part of the separation. The bill suggests that parents who need to stay outside the home in order to be safely in close proximity to birth care and cannot be able to travel or geographic circumstances should be allowed to start or take birth strength three weeks before the scheduled date of birth, which should be confirmed by a doctor's certificate, or earlier if a doctor's testimony is confirmed. It is generally advisable that pregnant women should be near the birth site no later than three weeks before the anticipated date of birth, or at a gestational age of 38 weeks compared to the average duration of 40 weeks. However, the bill assumes that a parent can start or take birth root earlier if it is confirmed by a doctor's certificate that a mother's presence is earlier near her birthplace. Evaluation of the need for a pregnant mother to stay away from her home in order to be safely in the presence of pre - delivery aid is primarily medical. In any case, the birthal aid offered in district hospitals is likely to be sufficient, as is the 3rd proverb for 1 mg. 18th par. Health Care Programme, No. 40/2007. In special cases, however, parents may need to be more specific for medical reasons. It can, for example, be used. applies to the case of multiple births and the predictable complications of birth. It should be noted that the second parent may need to stay away from home at the same time as a pregnant mother. The bill complies with the three-week reporting intervals according to the criteria specified in 2 paragraph 1.mg. Section 15. and 1st. 23rd par. the layer of birth and parent'sorof. However, once you are not sure when your parents will have to start or take birth strength, it is expected that you will have to withdraw from them every week. This may be the case when unexpected events arise that require parents to stay close to birth aid earlier than expected. Otherwise, it is anticipated that either parent will apply for pay on maternity or birth strength in accordance with local laws. However, the bill suggests that parents'right to birthworm or strength will be extended at the time they need to stay away from home in order to stay safely in close proximity to delivery aid. Otherwise, parents who need a maternity or the strength to get birthday aid away from their homes should be placed at a lower birth or a left - strength to use care and association with their children after birth than parents who live in a home - to - house ministry. That situation, as 1 mgr, is the opposite and not the best of a child. Section 3. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which has been granted the legal value of this country by law No. 19/2013. It is expected that during the days of a parent staying outside the home, an extended birth Orallofs will extend, which is usually the period from the time the parent leaves the home to be close to birth care and up to the birth of a child. Because of only one month's pay for birth intensity, it is expected that the length of the birth will be at least one month; yet, if specific circumstances require that the parent stay away from home, it can be studied for two months. It is then assumed that parents who start taking birth strength until otherwise due to such circumstances will be allowed to switch the intake of the strength into a time period that is generally prohibited. This calls for a change of 6 mg. 14th par. Qualifications Funds and Pays of Birth, No. 1218/2008. Is my speech session over, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u83	The president admits that the hour is only hard on us, but the president is in charge during the session. He's about five minutes now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u84	So what? A senator has five more minutes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u86	That said, I'd like to mention a few more things, i.e. ... withouta piece of paper that comes with the bill. As I said, the bill, if approved, is not the situation on people in this country regarding access to safe health care. In this context, I would like to discuss only the cost of housing that people of the country need to make when they have to stay away from their home weeks and even months before the baby's birth date. That's a lot of money. People may stay three or seven weeks, even longer, away from their homes and have to rent homes. The one standing here knows how to rent a so-called Airbnb. Some have access to labor companies, which are more practical. And some people have families and friends who can host them, but not all of them. There is also a problem with having access to other families when even more children are involved. In other words, it is not a small matter and very costly one. Economic anxiety is added to concern about everything else for prospective parents, who are not good at all for a mother or a child. In addition to housing expenses, there is also pay free leave for a spouse. Children must be taken from school if more children are present, which is a major source of family life and insecurity when traveling across the sea and land, even in many weather conditions. According to my information, countries such as Greenland and the Faeroe Islands meet prospective parents who live far away fromurances with housing grants. I think it would be wise for us to examine at least how our neighbors in the north are on these issues and then consider whether the ways they have chosen to go are suitable for our situation. Another point to consider in this context is how we will fully meet health - care laws. We may never be able to do so entirely, but we are now fulfilling current health - care laws, i.e. to ensure that everyone always has access to health care so that there is full equality here. Not now. The Government Treaty places great emphasis on community affairs, that all Icelanders are at the same table as public service. The same covenant also highlights the structure of the health system. Thus, the changes proposed by this bill are fitting for the promotion of the government. Although the change in the law is subject to social security, the overall change in health, how we see it developing to the future, the way we provide equal access to health care for all Icelanders. Our priority at our last assembly was to produce a health plan for Iceland. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to view our health system as a whole and to plan its structure on long - term schedules. The agreement on health planning was adopted at Council 147 and the work on the project is now being done in the Ministry. I can't wait to see what they're doing. But the situation is this, the highest. President: In later years, the number of birth - service sites has declined, but little has been replaced by the State to meet prospective parents in order to ensure their separation and their children. Let's change it. I'd like the bill to go to what? At the end of the discussion, the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u87	V.E.G. President. Here's a good case, and I hope we can all join together. The birth of a child is one of the biggest events in each family's lives, and it is vital that it be successful. In reality, though, not all of us are at the same table in this country. The fact is, the whole of the country has been reduced and its availability varies. No one knows until he tries to find out what it's like to go a long way and be away from his family and even a mate when it comes to childbirth. This can be challenging and challenging. Support and solidarity do not help. I think it's part of improving equality to the habitat and making it possible for health care to recover and strengthen the country's habitats. This is also made up of the basis and equality to the residence. Nor does everyone live a long way to get in the home of relatives and friends to spend a long time, if necessary. This has a high cost for families, as well as for the pressures of having a child and having to be away from home. I hope we can join together to follow this bill and correct these issues that all of us make a huge difference. I'm glad it's here, and I'm proud to be an associate in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u88	Mr. President. I just want to agree with the good stuff that has been brought here by the senators of the advance party and believe it's long time to get paid here at the council. This is the fifth time it has been moved and the time for it to receive the treatment it deserves and the payment it deserves. Sadly, birth services have gathered far and wide throughout the country. Women must go a long way to attend such services at any cost, loss of employment, and an increase in the cost of housing. It is shocking and detracts from people's interest in living in areas of the country where birth services need to be applied for a long time. This is the moment in every family and woman's life that is most important, and everyone wants this service to be the safest, not under stress, and does not have to take any risk in these matters. If the problem arose, as is indicated below, both in the case of birth strength and in the birthworm, it is of utmost importance. Other factors also need to be looked out for the cost of this, which I think may require elsewhere, housing costs, and loss of both parents, in many cases. We know examples far and wide from the country, where such services are no longer available near the parent and at great expense and discharge. Thus, this is a large equal case in terms of housing equality and housing security. This is a big part of strengthening the habitats of the country for parents, and I would be happy to see this case getting paid. And although it's not popular from this platform to bring stories about myself, I'm a local woman who's had four children, three over wintertime when a man had to stay away from his home and wait for birth, without a mate, and was so lucky to have a fourth child in summer. However, not everyone can direct births into the summertime. Though local women have much to do with the song, I don't think that's the way to improve these items.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u89	Mr. President. Even if she doesn't mind. Not too much, this is an important suggestion for a change in the law on maternity and parentorum. Councilmen of the House of forwards are offering up. This is an important matter for parents who need to stay outside the home in order to be safely present at birth. This is a very positive first step, but it's too bad it's not gone far enough. The fact that medical services in the country are such that parents who are expecting a child and who need to stay outside the home need to go into debt because of a land in Reykjavík are naturally ridiculous. Not all family or friends in the capital area who can provide parents and even older children stay for a longer time, as is often needed in these cases, and like Erla Rún Sigurjónsdóttir, a midwife at Isafundur, recently pointed out in Facebook entry, it is a terrible situation to be pregnant on a high-school woman's couch. Recently, a media discussion about married couples was made on ISsafon, who are expecting twins and who see the need to pay some 200 yards. K. for two weeks stay at the hospital hotel. That is one example of many. It's sad, but it's true that future parents who live outside the Great Rygout or the Great Eagle Area are just not first-class Icelanders. In effect, they are neither second nor third - rate Icelanders, for they do not receive home - to - house services or support for medical care where it can be found. I hope that the welfare committee will consider this when the motion is adjusted in the treatment of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u90	Mr. President. I rejoice in the performance of this case and allow myself to express its support. Here is a very good subject, which is of great importance to people living in the country and not to live near a place of birth. However, this is also important for those who even live at birth, since it is not always that in every part of the country, even where there are health institutions, there is adequate security and constant service to ensure that parents of children, e.g. children who live in the security of people in the capital area. That's why it's so important. In a sense, this bill will come to some extent a change in our attitude during the past century to birth and childbearing. The public in this country expects virtually all children who come into the world to have an opportunity to accompany these children all their lives, etc. It is no longer possible for us to take any risks regarding pregnancy and childbirth, at least not without necessity. That's why it's adding a bill from a major fault to our system. On other costs, which inevitably come to this type of health care, and in fact others, there are other laws that must be handled in some other way, in some other way, especially the living cost to the parents in the capital area, and in the same way with others who need medical care here. I believe this is a matter of justice, and I hope that there will be a better payment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u91	A respectable president. It is good to get involved in these discussions about national agreements, such as having children. Of course, it's gonna need a bill that's around here and maybe you could say that an example from my district, i.e. The South Sea district is an example of this, of course, Western Islands. There is a well - equipped hospital in which birth - care programs have actually gradually gone away and are no longer available. There is a midwife in the island, but in reality there is not a normal obstetric aid in the hospital. Of course, there is a matter that would need to be revised. I have, like, moved about that speeches in this chair before. So there are more than 50 babies on average in the Western Islands, two, three, four in the island, the rest all over the country. And, in fact, so many of these other factors related to ultrasound and other ultrasound, ultrasound is not being done in the hospital. There will be a natural cost of going to a country more than once when it comes to having children. This high cost, it doesn't have to abound. It will turn to the people - the people itself - but it will also cost thousands of millions of dollars to the island's medical flight, sometimes by means of a normal medical plane, sometimes by the helicopters of the Land Security if there is a problem. We have an example of a business shutting down because people have to stay in the country for as long as they can. Whatever the case, the Western Islands are good examples of conditions that are not really meant to exist in our fine country. This is, therefore, a highly supportive bill, a step of many that must be taken to improve delivery aid in the country. I do not decide whether this should be three weeks, four or five before the scheduled date of birth. There's something the experts need to work on. But I hope so. The welfare committee will take the bill to careful review, and it will serve as a less supportive description.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u92	A respectable president. I want to thank those here who have spoken for their speech and their emphasis and support of their bill. All of us, then, agree that this is a national agreement and that it is important that we take a closer look. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter said that it might not go far enough and entered more expense groups, e.g. costs for housing. I think that at the time the matter has been discussed in the Senate Hall, this factor has always come up, the cost of housing, the cost of living. I would think that when a welfare committee considers the matter and examines it, she will take into account their indication and may bring it up with some application. But like a dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned such a change at home in other laws. There is something that we need to consider. I think that the reason this fine bill has not been successful before, despite being put forward for the fifth time, is not because there has been some argument against it or some opposition to it, political opposition somewhere. I have not sensed it that way. Rather, I feel that political unrest has had its own effect. They've never had time to win the case. It was only once that they got away from it. The welfare committee again, if I recall correctly. It's been a little dissociative. But I hope this is a good time for this matter on the welfare board, if you come back here to the Senate Hall, and hopefully you'll agree within a few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-19-5.u93	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a financial law. This bill suggests an extension of the time of provisional regulations on the law, but the law falls otherwise from the value of the 31st of December. The bill suggests that the length of the provision will be extended to December 31, 2020. This provisional principle provides financial intervention clearance to the SEC in certain urgent situations. Sources have the intention to limit damage or damage financial markets if there is a need for financial problems and/or financial problems. The main evidence of the law is that the Commission can first preach to stockholders and meeting stockholders and demand that certain matters be handled for discussion and decision-making, and secondly take over the power of shareholders, or meet stockholders, and make needed decisions, including the limitation of power of decision control, partial or overall expulsion, possession, rights, or related financial companies, sales of property companies, or partnerships with other companies. This law has been under law on financial enterprises from the execution of emergency laws and as temporary regulations since 2009. No material changes have been made to the arrangement since that time, but its duration has been extended five times. Last used in March 2015, the vigour Fund of the Western Island of se was the source of the law. was united with the Bank of Lands. By taking over property and debt. A law that implements the European Union's Directive for restoration and return of financial companies comes to replace the regulations under consideration in the bill. It is assumed that the implementation of the European Directive will be completed in 2020 and that it will therefore not be necessary to extend the duration of the directive rather than being proposed in the bill. A respectable president. If this bill becomes legal, it will be guaranteed that the SEC still has the authority to take special measures on finance if necessary in order to limit damage or damage to financial markets. The work of the bill was made consult with the National Intelligence Agency, Iceland's Secret Bank and the Organization for finance, and it is their assessment that this law should be kept in security, despite its sources have not been used in the last two years. It can be said that there is a situation far different from that of the law and the decision making on temporary extensions in recent years. That's why there's no need for the law to exist, but that's the way it is that you never know beforehand what can happen. However, I dare say here that we are in a very different position, but a few years ago, we were referring to these material in general, about the status of financial companies in the country. This was a reason to weigh whether the law should be extended. I think it was right. The advice I have referred to here was to help with that assessment. It was rather unanimous that the law should be kept alive. I believe that there is a valid reason for that. Therefore, this bill is submitted and suggested that we extend the length of the arrangement as a precautionary measure. As discussed above, it is assumed that when we adopt and implement the European Union's Directive for restoration and return management, sources similar to these will be legalized in a country that remeditates a person to think that the disaster laws at its time were a model for many other nations and decisions made by the Icelandic government on the basis of the European Commission's emergency law have provided a model for the European Union's further regulations, e.g. of how rich government sources come about by means of the new Regulation to step into financial companies and what rules apply to property value, etc., as well as to the priorities of bank and financial institutions, which proved to be quite controversial when we Icelanders brought it into law and may be said to be in their place the beginning of all the differences between Icesave cases. This has become a principle of the order that has been being born in the European Union in recent years. I suggest that this bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
