ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 113, on the record of the beliefs and principles, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer today, but the Senate says it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u3	As an answer: Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u4	Madam President. It could be read in the Mark of the Book of News magazine, five days ago that Copenhagen is now working on sales at up to 50% of the partner at Arion Bank in a closed out invitation to US investment funds and a group of Icelandic pension funds. The price of this price will be in the range of $175,690 billion, which is equivalent to an increase of 0.8 per year to the bank's own money. These transactions would be expected to run out in the next few weeks, the value of sales would be available to supply up 84 billion bonds of deposit published by the Icelandic government at the start of 2016. V.E.G. The secretary of finance informed the presidents of the opposing parties that these reports had at least one report. to some evidence of a meeting last week. In view of the fact that the following is going to be discussed with the owner's policy for financial companies, and it has also been requested to meet in the Economic and Business Committee for the policies that don't allow for any overall re-examination of the financial system, but to sell on almost all banks without any other changes, I would like to ask the highest degree. In particular, the secretary of finance to this Council of Buy at Arion Bank, which includes - of course, there are significant incentives for the members of the Council of Copenhagen, who receive high requisitions if they succeed in selling the item for private pay in the near future. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he knows who's behind the hedge fund and that an assessment was made whether these parties intend to be in the banking business in Iceland or whether it's short-term investors who intend to re-selling the item soon and up profitably. And if it has been evaluated for its economic impact, either this item will be sold in the near future relative to the fact that the object will go to the State as it would by the end of 2018. Could such an action be even more economic cost in the long run? Tells you the highest. Minister that this sale prevents some of the rest of the system from being reorganized?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that the Federal Bank and the Ministry of Economics has received information from several demands or tenants of the Council of Copenhagen. An agreement was made on how the owners of a broken house could come to buy certain items, and I can confirm that their offer is in accordance with the agreement made, i.e. The price is not below the 0.8. At the same time, I have directed that request to the Federal Bank, and the Navy has checked to see if there are others behind this offer. It is believed that it is not, these are people who intend to be in banking activities for a few long periods of time, but of course they cannot commit themselves forever. I thought it was very important to know if these are really these people, all of whom are foreign, or whether they were there, e.g. Some Icelandic investors are behind it, but I'm told it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u6	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It stated that the institutions of the Ministry and the Federal Bank have no members behind the foreign forces, i.e. A hedge fund that wants to offer in Arion banks and that their plan is to run here a bank permanently. I asked the highest. Minister also whether it had been evaluated that it might be more economicly acceptable that this object even went to the State as intended before 2018. Has its economic impact been evaluated in relation to this sale? Of course, you may think about buying now and even selling on some profits soon thereafter. Then I asked the highest. Minister also to the effect that the sale, if observed, would have had on the government's ability to reorganize the system. The following is the question of owner's policy, the separation of business and investment banks. [[The president calls.]] Once this item is sold, it is expected to affect the potential for changing the environment. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for his evaluation of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u7	Madam President. First of all about economic impacts, it's according to an agreement the parties are buying. They are not buying from the State. This is done in accordance with that agreement. However, I can answer for political influence. I personally don't think it's convenient for Iceland to own all the business banks. I think it's good enough to have two of them, even if it's temporary. I don't think that would be desirable for Iceland if all the banks were on government property. As for the reorganization, it is the same kind of answer that I can give, that it is not the state to reorganize Arazon banks because the state has only a 13% share, but I will further establish the renovations of the whole banking system in a special discussion below. I believe in itself that this sale is in harmony with what men could expect when the agreement was made. I don't expect the future to be greatly affected by the banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u8	Madam President. In view of the reinstatement of the council after the bill on correction of the retrospective social security law, I would like to have a word exchange with the highest court. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It is not obvious whether a planned correction will pass a constitution, especially by the restoration of the law, or possibly the State's benefits to pension patients. There is very strong evidence by trying to keep these matters as black and white as possible and not create examples that could be used improperly and undermine the security of the city. With that in mind, I ask the highest. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Department of Social Affairs and Why is the highest measure? Does not a minister himself for this matter, but rather, does a health committee recommend the matter? In view of the fact that the rationalization of these laws for two months is the obvious failure of the Lawgiver, I would like to ask the highest degree. A minister of what he would define as an obvious mistake in this context. Who is in a position to determine whether or not a mistake is involved? When do we find that it is an inconsistencies with the text it follows in order to support the failure and not need to follow the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u9	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is simply a clear matter. It's been a long time for years, in preparation, i.e. Social Security review. It was always clear in all preparatory work on the part of the Committee, the social security committee involved in the preparation of this case, that the recovery system was being made where one of the impairments would be opposed to all the incomes of the carer. Hence, it was quite clear that the intent of the Lawgiver in this case was clear, stakeholders to all members of the committee, in their reviews for the council, was also clear, and can be read from all their comments that they were fully aware of the kind of impairment. So it's obvious that there's gonna be a legal error there, and in such cases it's been the custom, that because I'm told, now I don't have years under my belt, that the committee simply takes the case for consideration and accept the necessary correction. I think it's quite clear when it comes to discussing possible benefits, that it should be kept in mind that at no time at any time, the legitimate prospects of a pensioner for these benefits were instituted. It was always clear what the Lawgiver's purpose was, and it is very clear in all its evidence at all levels in the conduct of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u10	Madam President. I don't think there's any difference in the fact that there's been a mistake. I don't think these questions were perhaps a way of wondering how, pardoning the sleigh, Šslay, it can be, and how bad an example we're setting by putting a law backtrace. This makes a gray area that can be dangerous to the example we set for the future. Then I would also like to ask what it said in a girl that in reality the U.S. Department of Insurance knew about this mistake in January but continued to pay off law. Then I would like to ask: Is the decision not to pay in accordance with the local government laws? In a strict sense, it may be that a government makes a decision on the right or the duty. If so, should it be counter-and court? And with whom? There are a number of these things that come up when we make a decision to pay back, and particularly when government agencies do not pay by law, but according to the spirit or will of the Lawgiver rather than the law itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u11	President wants less of it. A member of the Parliament is an Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u12	Madam President. Once again, it's been handled at all levels since this mistake was made with the intention of the Lawgiver who was completely clear at the time. There is no doubt about it. On the other hand, the Ministry informs the Ministry when failures arise that were not appreciated. The Senate is immediately treated to correct and correct matters. I don't think it's, like, cot. A senator says, some dangerous step down in this regard. I think it's right to bear in mind that the legislation actually confirmed its intent to the decommissionment of budgets, which is quite clear by funding to this budget that it was thought of with the purposes it was due, otherwise it would have required about 30 billion more to the budget this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we were not to respond in such a way, we would simply have to cut back to meet the costs not allowed in the 2017 budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u13	The president encourages you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to respect the time frame specified here for queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u14	A respectable president. I was attending a meeting Saturday or a Memorial conference where experts in animal health and public health, food security, and antibiotics were gathered. The meeting was held by the initiative of the former senator, the son of Jónasson, who was discussed with concern that the change in import of fresh food, non - frozen food, could lead to a worse position on the land. The article Guðnadóttir, professor of virology, also points to the same subject that appeared in the papers last week. During the meeting, the facts of scientific concern were very interesting that huge value is being generated in the unique situation of Iceland's animal health and the fact of public health that food safety, the incidence of food infections, and, in particular, antibiotic resistance would be the lowest or the least available in the world. The North countries are doing pretty well, but Iceland is in the lead. I've asked for a meeting on the pro board for this subject and I have a reason. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason also wanted it, but he was there at the meeting. This is in view of the fact that a re-evaluation of the livestock agreements and the export of the import protocols. In the courts, the requirement of a collective dealer is to discuss a ban on the requirement for 30 days of cryopreserved meat. So I would like to ask a minister if she takes these views seriously, share the concern of the scientists on this position, and whether these views or even these experts will be taken into the Ministry's work for the implementation of rules in case of need.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u15	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Jóhannsson won this inquiry. I'm sorry, and I told my friend Ögmund, the son of Jónasson, that I couldn't come to this meeting, but I sent my deputies to keep an eye on the matter. There is reason to be very careful about what has to do with food security, which is related to Icelandic speciality, excellent food that we have, not without reason, built up here within the country. I share a lot of opinions. A senator, as soon as I say, "Yes, we're keeping a close eye on the situation. " Today, we will put food security first. We will listen to their specialists and their advice. But I say, "We are also to go down with caution to the earth. We are to help the discussion be enlightened, balanced, and without any fear - inspiring propaganda being planned." I'm not saying that what's happened is panic propaganda. I'm stressing that we're supposed to be paying attention to experts. There are conflicting opinions. The Ministry has some reports that I'm going to study, as a matter of fact. A senator knows, and based on a report made by a New Zealand member who has had experience with import or no import of food, meat. I will study it more closely, as with the opinions expressed by other important experts in these matters. We still need to be guided by the interests of farmers, consumers' interests, environmental interests, and nature's interests and animal protection in this regard. We need to make sure that there is a clear and clear policy of monitoring, giving it to consumers and farmers whom we expect from them, i.e. that we build a rule here that makes us continue to have excellent food production here in Iceland, green food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u16	A respectable president. I'm glad the Minister agrees that these are serious things. The development of antibiotic resistance is very rapid, and this is not panicking. These are the facts placed on the table by scientists all over the world. I encourage the Minister to study the New Zealand imports of what can be brought into that country and as far as Australia because of animal health in that islands. Iceland is an island, too. There they spoke independent experts who were completely independent, had no interest in defending the current system or changing the system and moving more in here. However, the minister took some members out of the Rapporteur's office, including the New Committee Ögmundur Jónasson, who has fought for consumers here at the council, as well as as the head of the BSRB, and replaced the company of professionals, a collective body of sales, a community of interest stakeholders. Now, I'd like to ask the minister: "Do the Minister believe in the whole market being a representative of the consumers' grounds in a review of the market agreements and the import of meat to Iceland for competition with domestic production? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u17	Madam President. Yes, in that way we are distinguished, me and him. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, that I thought it was important to meet the precise viewpoint set out in the opinion of the Parliament's labour agreements, i.e. the need to appeal to a greater group than has now been or to the last minister approved. I took advice and guidance. A professional health committee was very serious and partly reassigned to the committee. All I have to do is live with it, I think it's important that the committee reflects a broader perspective than was shown by the then minister of the Ministry of the Government. I trust all members of the review committee, 13 persons, to contribute to the goal I believe that all members of the Parliament want to work on, i.e. to promote intensive food industry, powerful agriculture, short- and long-term green agriculture. There we need to keep much in mind, including being careful about what we're moving in, how it's marked, originated, etc. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a lot more that unites me. A senator, but he suspects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u18	Madam President. The city of the capital area is now about 64% of its population, with the exception of the migration of brothers of the 1.7 million tourists who arrive here in the region. Therefore, it is imperative that the territory's traffic issues be cooperated with its rural governments. In special discussions last week, the highest claim was made. The secretary for transport to Reykjavíkurburg would not have agreed to a misdirected international convention at the Bourgway and Smokejanes Ways, although this was in the agreed transport program, a program that the government did not seem to have intended to accomplish. In 2006, when a large percentage of an independent group, including the city council, was rejected, a form of misdirection at the Smokejanes Way and the Basis were rejected by the city council. and that they were strongly opposed by the neighborhood's local groups. There were subsequent suggestions for improvement in the intersections. Since then, there have been no talks on the road conventions that have been received from the road to Reykjavík. The project is not for the Al Parliamentary Transport Plan for 2015-2018 adopted by the Council of 2016. Also, it is not part of the transport program 2011-03/022 adopted by the Council of 2012. That, however, is expected to be 1 billion on the project at the end of a transport program 2015-226, but it has not been approved by the Council. So it cannot be seen that a minister is correct. The project is not part of an agreed transport programme. So the questions are very simple: 1st Does a minister still keep his word from last week? 2. If not, does a minister feel it appropriate to come up here and correct his words? Third, I'd like to know who the minister of this business has been in contact with the city of Reykjavík after he arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u19	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to discuss what happened here, i.e. that the government did not intend to complete the transport program. It was the General Assembly that adopted a four - year transport program that was approved on October 12, 2016. It was this assembly here that provided a broad budget bill for the current year, where the lack of 10 billion could be maintained in a transport program adopted several weeks earlier at the council. It is not the government's means to finance it, that is, Generalis, that has the legal right. During this turn point and other projects in the capital area that have not been met with the city of Reykjavík to take a step that is highly important to pay for traffic flows in the capital area. We have here one of the most disaster - filled streets in the country, including the central streets of Bhust Road and Smokeynes Ways, where the incidence of accidents is high. We've got another misdirected block just over there, which is Great Way/Flaminades Way. There's a very low incidence of accidents, which is because they are indiscriminate, the rest being a light - directed interface. Despite the ideas of going to a city line and increasing public transportation, which I am a minister of great favor to be examined thoroughly, it will not solve all our problems in these areas. Whether I've made any progress about the fact that this was on a transport plan - I'm just asking for respect if it is. But the main thing is that I will now, at a meeting planned with the city authorities within the next few days, take up this matter, along with others who have had a disagreement with the city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u20	Madam President. It's honorable for the highest. A minister to correct a case, even though there was a very careful way to go there. But I'd also like to correct something that happened to a minister last week. He said that the highways and mallways were the most dangerous corners in the country. They're not. Today, they are the tenth most dangerous mold in the country despite being one of the largest. The changes that made this result cost 200 million. K. This cost is only a fraction of the cost of a misappointment. At one time, it was assumed that the cost would be 12 billion. I'd like to ask the minister again: Has he been in touch with the city of Reykjavík on this matter ever since he took over?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u21	A respectable president. Once again, I want to reiterate the importance of looking at the experience of the success of a mismanagements when compared with a light - control street. There is no doubt about the importance of traffic traffic flow and traffic security. We can also totally look at the paths that lie here, for example. Just south of Hafnarfjördur. Why do we not have light at all of those places where there are discrepancies that have been planted in our neighboring communities? You can imagine how traffic would work if it were. Traffic stops everything at this light - controlled intersection. This puts us in grave danger. These traffic accidents are among the most dangerous conventions in the country. There's nothing to wonder about. There have not been many serious accidents, but there have been very many accidents, which are very expensive to our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u22	Has the Minister been in contact with...?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u23	I then reiterate, because there is a question about my dealings with Reykjavíkurburg that we had to postpone the occasion for a meeting planned with the mayor and his people shortly before the meeting is scheduled for the next few days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u24	A respectable president. The government's declaration of policy, for example, says by permission of the President: ▪ A learning system on the north will become an example and loan system on the basis of full production and learning initiative. Think of the social role of the fund. Now I'm going to have to go to the highest. A minister of education after comments on what he intends to do in these areas, for rather, the thin 13th is at the top paragraph. Minister, at least this spring. I want to know what he has in mind. For example, today there is no one specific normic learning loan system. There are as many countries in the North, including Iceland. The Icelandic loan system is a social student loan system. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what he's got in mind. He's going to sue his captain, former chief. A minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson's son, who suffered a terrible judgment, to say the least, in the community where the entire social equation of the fund was as good as pulled out of the equation. Will there be any extensive consultations with someone involved? Does this need to be refurbished? His priorities were now just the most important work in the Agency itself, the loan fund of Icelandic students. And there are more stakeholders than WIN when it comes to loans. How's the top? A minister suggests that this work will be started if he intends to do something about it? Very much. At the end of this, a minister endeavored to share some kind of reconciliation with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There is a question about the quality of loans and the loss of a bill that the council managed in the autumn. Right, like what? A senator pointed out, there was a serious disagreement on the matter, there were a number of things I think he created and delayed the progress of the bill, including elections, and later Congress, just before Christmas. My intentions are asked in these matters because they do not take place in the Government Constitution before the spring council, it is a thin thirteenth that it certainly is. I put three cases in the Constitution, but the reason this case isn't in there is that it's just that I need a lot of time to go into it and through all the talk about it. In the fall of the year, try to arrange for more reconciliation at the council and among stakeholders on the subject than it did in the last winter. I think there's a lot to do about it. There's a lot of good things in this case that I think we can work on, and then we can clearly try to make better terms about the issues that arose during the council's last winter. My will is to direct the Ministry's work on the fact that the case will appear in the fall of the present, in the fall. It will then depend on how the work together and the work together will do in the summer what costume it will come in before the council when the Constitution will be replaced, and this case will hopefully be among other good subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u26	A respectable president. I welcome these answers to the highest. Secretary of education. There were indeed many things that delayed the course of this case, and there was a powerful reason for that. It was hard work, and the fund's social equation was pulled out. I'm glad to hear it, if I don't get it wrong. Minister, that he intends to do more research when it comes to this important loan fund about how we view the future role of the fund. Then I expect it from the highest. Education minister to be used in this cross-cutting, there will be more stockholders than just LINs. I would also like to know if it's the highest. A minister is interested in getting a parapolitic discussion there too. Or will this work only with professional stakeholders? You see, the issues of loans last year were primarily political. They were primarily about whether we wanted to take more personal interest and closer to the American loan system than the Norwegian welfare system. I'm asking the highest. Minister to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u27	A respectable president. I have not yet made any decisions as to how I intend to conduct my job in reviewing and revising and working on a loan bill in a new costume. But I've been striving for the issues I've been working on trying to create a solid agreement on them, both professional and political. I don't believe that I'm going to change the way I'm doing it, so I expect to try to make some sort of connection with the political parties here at council as well as with stakeholders. In what costume it's gonna be, I'm just not ready to shine here and now because I'm just working on other things and I haven't really gotten into the loan fund yet. I'll tell you when it comes to it. Then I assume some members of the council here in this hall will be better damaged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u28	Madam President. At the financial and economic base, the day's work was published according to the review of the state's ownership policies on finance. I was greatly disappointed that the bank system appears to remain intact for the future. There is no suggestion for changing the banking system for the benefit of the public in the country, but there is an opportunity to do so right now that the State owns most of the banking system. I think it's a serious matter and strongly object to the fact that the opportunity to reorganize the system is not to be used. On the contrary, sales of property parts of the State are being offered in the mastery and are up to 34◯40% in the Lands Bank. Otherwise, financial institutions will seem to remain in the same image as they are today, with no evidence that the State stresses a change in culture or morals within the system from that which was before a collapse. We watch the same banking system as before collapse, the same currency as before collapse, the same risks on public shoulders as before collapse. When we discuss the banking system, its scope, and its services, we need to look for few people, the market is small, and we need to establish a routine of financial activities that is internationally acceptable and trustworthy. This is also a prerequisite for a competitive foreign trade. Granted, there is a small market that limits the potential for healthy competition and diversity. An independent currency with a unstable gang that has a major impact on the changes in the country's prices is also one of the Icelandic economy's distinctive features, along with insurance. In that case, it also sets boundaries for us. Nevertheless, we can still offer a better and less expensive banking service than we do today for the public. It is important that the State employs its owner's influence in banks in order to contribute to the favorable and practical development of financial markets and its organization. It is important to go to that work right away. I'm the highest. Ministers to have initiatives agreed with the government and government and others on the best way to build a banking system in this country and also to press after study and the privatization of banks up from the turn of the century, which was just said to be a failure. Now the hedge fund is likely to possess the first possession sold at a bank after the demanding workers were prepared. What's the policy? It seems to be establishing the same banking system as the collapse of a hedge fund at the head of a maximum policy. Minister. Madam President. This big case requires a much better preparation. I challenge the highest. Minister to do better than that. The primary objective of the new banking system is simple. There has to be financial crisis. The future financial system in Iceland needs to be aimed at making the system safe, efficient, and suitable for national development. It is important to the public that investment banking and business banking work be separated, that the public does not pay for the losses of banks, but the benefits become private. Indeed, since collapse changes have been made in order and are improving, but it does not change that the state is responsible for the deposit of business banks and Icelandic business banks are involved in gambling investments on the responsibility of the state. These problems will not be solved unless business banks are banned from investing. Investment banks are not supposed to be able to finance their high - risk projects by means of government-secured loans at this time. Investors who benefit fully from successful investments should also carry all the risks in difficult circumstances. By means of full - time separation, a government fund would be prevented from being held responsible for risky investment projects. The public will thus be protected from the risks of investment banking and will be made up of banks responsible for services as inexpensive as possible to people and normal companies. The cost system and minimum - risk investment become part of the general service to the people in the country. Madam President. Rather than selling the banks away, we should take advantage of the opportunity to reorganize the banking system. Let's not sell the banks to hedge funds on the basis of an out - of - date policy. Let's make changes that protect the public from the risks of investment banking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Harðardóttir Daughter for starting the discussion. As the World of Congress knows, the government's policy on banks is now a presentation on the Ministry's Web. It explains that the state is about to sell all its items in banks except 343/40% at the Bank of the Lands. I have expressed my opinion that at the sale it is right to achieve as much greater solidarity among political parties, and, of course, the parties will be consulted in accordance with the law. I also want to correct the misunderstanding. A senator says the state is selling hedge funds some things. As we noted earlier, it's the stock market of Copenhagen, the owners of Copenhagen, which are selling them. In this matter, a foreordained to various aspects of the future budget of the financial system. There is no plan at this time to change the banking system's structure into basics. It is hard to see that the banks can be less competitive, so they can hardly be united. Then I don't think it's a good idea to break up banks. We already have a very large banking system according to the size of the economy, and ahead, we continue to make progress. However, it is possible to ask, " Can the banks use a common computer system to a greater extent than at present? ' The present system has to be run by many systems that have comparable or similar functions. It may be possible to change the use of banks in this respect and reach lower costs. I'll call attention to what. Of course, a member of the council can dismiss the bank's environment from its property. Hv. A senator also mentions the possibility of separating investment banking and business banking. It is true that consumers are not to be risked by excessive risks of investment banking. This discussion has taken place in many parts of the world. In the United States and in the European Union, individual countries have established different rules. In general, financial companies have been changing dramatically in both Europe and Iceland. Here we now have the financing board and the system risk board. These committees, as well as the F.A. and the National Intelligence Department, monitor what is happening in the banking system and have the authority to intervene in a wide variety of ways. In recent years, there have been changes in the rules of calculating and requirements for financial institutions. All of this has been done just to make sure that the benefits of the bank giving a wide range of services are not at the expense of public consumers or the community in general. I can't figure out what it is. A senator means when he says that the state is responsible for loans. If he is referring to the 2008 statement made by the prime minister, it has now been canceled. I've already recommended financial management issues. In the next few days, I will recommend a bill on European financial security agencies. Permissions for monitoring and intervention are laid down to ensure stability and e.g. fixes the entire financial environment. More issues will follow, and we will see that in the next few years the secretary of finance will have to provide a number of legal products that have to be reformed in a financial market. In particular, I refer to the legislation on repairs, return treatments, and violations of financial institutions that will hopefully be set before the Senate by the end of the year. A possible separation of investment banking and business banks has been considered in the Ministry, e.g. in the class appointed in the spring of 2016. That work isn't finished. The share of investment banking activity in bank business was greatly reduced after a collapse, but in recent years it has increased again. I have expressed my opinion that it is urgent that banks be prevented from becoming part of a business corporation like before a collapse. Finally, I'd like to back off a few words on the bank system. Today it is so that the state, by law, by order of order, by surveillance and management of the Secret Bank, contributes to an efficient subsidies in the country. This is especially true of the European Union. The second bank announced on Friday's day's purchase of new software for inter Bank pay, but the equipment will replace the older system since 2001. A respectable president. During bank market competition, users will have access to a suitable service. Monitoring, monitoring, and various infrastructures are to exist on the hands of the government as yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u30	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. The fact is that ownership, which has been promoted to the financial security site, is, of course, a big disappointment. They include, not a clear vision of the future for financial systems, but a general expression of some kind of value in financial businesses and the objective of selling the entire banking system, except for the 30 to40% share in the Bank of America. It is not suggested that work should be completed as high as possible. However, in his talk earlier, a minister mentioned what benefits separation from banking and investment banking might bring. Although significant changes have been made in the regular work of financial companies within the European economy, it has been noted that it does not necessarily serve the purpose we want to see, it is omnipotent, heavy and does not have the fundamental impact on the culture and activities of the financial system we want. On this one, e.g. were referred to by John Kay, the British economist who has spoken very much for the separation of business and investment banking, which was based on figures from the end of 2013, ranging in from 14-225% of the Icelandic financial system. And since then has increased. I wondered if it's not natural for the state to produce a policy where the state is supposed to have at least one bank or business bank, but should the state have an investment bank? That's what the Supreme One said. Secretary of finance that the state was not responsible for loans in the banks in his prehistoric speech. How, though, should we interpret the historic example we have since 2008? What would the State do if such a blow struck? How good would the state be if at least at least a argument had been made? to the difficulty of separating business and investment banking and the real risk that investment banking can fall on the public in a way that we've seen elsewhere? [[The president calls.]] I believe this ownership policy is set forward without necessary discussions at the General Assembly and with the government where we really want to go with the Icelandic financial system. [[The president calls.]] This discussion has not been conducted through the introduction to EU regulations, unfortunately. It may have been too transparent. [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u31	The president has to give a heads-up. Councilmen and the highest. advisers to respect the time limit given during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u32	A respectable president. Pirates want a transparent holding. We need to know who we are shopping for who we are dealing with because of public interests. There are many family ties between government officials and buyers here in Iceland. This may be inevitable, but it should only motivate us to do better. In recent months the policy has been that much property has been sold. Usually, the proposal is made very quickly. There's a lot of speed and hurry in this sale. The pay is advertised when the market closes and offers to be completed before the market opens again. Such a short period of time does not increase equality in coming, resulting in the ability of certain persons to have the advantage in such purchases. Our primary role is to treat public and public property well. At the same time, it is our duty to perform a form of service, a basic service that we decide together. It prefers emphasis on bioavailability and quality. We're supposed to protect the interests of the public, the owners, not special interests. In recent years, there have been cases such as the payoff case, which must be carefully examined by the bank's personalization, the privatization of Shiman and the sale of the foundation service. Later, it came out of nowhere that selling it together was not necessary. There are many such examples that tell us that we must do things better, meditate on them. We give the banks a chance to wear belts and bracelets in terms of insurance. There are a lot of things that we need to consider to be able to care for and protect the interests of the public, not special interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u33	Madam President. This conversation is fine, although I sometimes feel that when people talk about separation, it is not clear to everyone what is involved in investment banking and business banking. Sometimes this gets confused. I also find it odd to listen to it when it is said in one word that it should not be that the state is responsible for the deposit of banks, but people will resist the release of the state of state of property in banks. Of course, that doesn't work. What I would like to do, however, is that it's not right for us here in the Hall to consider whether it's wise to lead into the law of the highest-authority investors and what form we put on such investors. V.E.G. The minister of finance was just a few moments away from this point. I mean, I think it would be wise for me to, for example, when investments have been placed over a particular object, which can, for example, be considered wise. Secure him in the management board of the bank, where there are very great restrictions on his ability to own in other companies. I think it's important that we consider this because we don't have a particularly good experience of people sitting in many banks, on the other hand, and sharing in big companies who are once again clients of that bank, etc. I'm very happy that I did. The minister of finance seems to be thinking that way, and it might be good if he in his second speech would tell us a little, if he has time, how would he feel about this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to thank a candidate for the debate on government ownership in finance. It's important. My speech turns to the hedge fund, because it stands to sell the great part of the kingdom in the banks, and it only turns to the ultimatum. Minister. Recently, it was reported that hedge funds and law firms that specialize in counseling in tax documents have been deemed qualified to handle a property share in Klak, a mother's partner in description. To me, it's completely incomprehensible. One of the conditions that we put in the financial law is to determine whether a person who intends to become involved in financial enterprises is qualified to own the property in terms of the healthy and reliable business of the company. Under these circumstances, there is also a requirement for information on possession, to consider the owner's reputation and that financial health conditions are met. You ask yourself: " Is the alleged health of the hedge funds that have been regarded as suitable for possessing a financial enterprise in Iceland focused on their position of superiority toward Icelandic households and businesses? They've certainly taken advantage of that position so far. But this health needs to reach the market. It seems to me that two main objectives of the current government ownership of financial companies could be at risk. We will contribute to the building of a healthy and powerful financial system that serves the interests of Icelandic society and builds trust and credibility in an Icelandic financial market. In my opinion, the Commission's recent assessment of foreign hedge funds to share in Icelandic financial companies is hardly based on financial legislation's aims, that they are being run in a healthy and normal way, including: Guided by the interests of customers. It seems to me that the government's ownership policy is also in danger. At best, there is a doubt about that. After all that has happened, we must give the doubt to the Icelandic public. [[The president calls.]] Now that there is a new policy of ownership, and it describes a willingness to transfer the bank to a private owner, transparency and trust may as well be followed in all circumstances and at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for taking the initiative in discussing the government's policy on financial enterprises. I have to say, though, that I'm ingesting the highest. I was disappointed in the financial and economic minister because the only material, new thing he said, was that the banks could use computer services better. I have to say, as it is, the situation in the Icelandic financial market is absolutely unique, where our holding, the state's funds, is with the most extensive in Europe. The policy published by the financial and economic minister now, the updated draft to ownery, gives the overexploited little insight into how our system should be. Before continuing, it is absolutely necessary to analyze the overall size of the system. Do we have to reorganize something? Is that practical enough? Also: Who should be the share of the Kingdom? Have we examined him sufficiently? Is he just supposed to be that 333/40% at the Lands Bank? How are we supposed to do this? For example, regarding the separation of business banks and investments, has this been examined sufficiently? Is that what other countries are doing? For example, is this one way to reduce the responsibility of a government fund on business ventures? We need answers to all of this before we go further. I think it is very important to establish a team of experts who are working closely with the Parliament for the future development of this important matter. I say, we're in absolute danger of going to this big reexamination. We have to do this in cooperation, performance and lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u36	Madam President. Do we want to rebuild the same banking system as before failure? How do we lay down the public risk of financial activity? Does the State need more in one business bank to ensure healthy competition and aid in the next possible collapse? These questions are not answered by the government. Of course, the General should be allowed to deal with these questions. V.E.G. Secretary of finance cannot shape this policy on its own with the chosen one. Hopefully, these policies take a lot of time during the council, since they are far more important than most of the cases that governments have seen as a reason to bring up at the beginning of the season. We must not repeat the same mistakes, the personal gain, and the land's losses. The Icelandic state is the biggest owner of banks. Now, there is a unique place to reorganize the banking system, so it really serves the people of the country. You see, experience with the sales of financial companies does not give rise to a lot of optimism. Iceland's Landsbank of the Icelandic government sold less than one third of its share in the currency company paying for 2.2 billion dollars. in a informal, closed, opaque process. The price was far too low, and the shareholders have been reimbursed in two years. It is best to remember when certain friends of the governments then purchased the bank from the State at the turn of the century. It needs to build a legal environment that contributes to a secure, economic, economic, and economic development where the common people are protected from the riskmaking of bank owners and it is important to separate the activities of bank and investment banks before being sold. The whole body of people owes them a good deal of work this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u37	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for the verbal vendetta. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for her initiative. They suggest that the government's ownership policies for financial companies that are being discussed here take into account the unique status of financial companies, as shown in the specifications of the holding organization, in terms of the purpose of ownership and the vision of the future. The government is not going to have more money on public markets permanently than in the Supreme case. Economic and economic ministers were once again tried that there will be a problem and no hurry there. I would like to state that although the state is now the largest financial and financial owner, as such, as has often been shown in the discussion, in a unique position to set lines for future development, it is my opinion that these lines and policy for the future of a financial market in general should be shaped by governments rather than by owners who it is, whether it is longer or shorter than anyone else. It is for us to shape this course. In recent years much work has been done in recent years and a decade in the reorganization of the financial system since the restoration of the three big banks and the camp loans as well. It's like the highest. The minister of Benedikt Jóhannesson's son came in, there is no plan to change anything fundamentally in the building of the banking system here. One big thing is to continue on the road to ensure that consumers are not responsible for investment banking, which is essentially risky, and the past few years have been put up with some committees and advice that together with legal matters make it possible to intervene in time when the need is needed. Finally, Madam President, I want to state that I welcome the emphasis. Secretary of finance, which has been very clear lately, not just here in a speech chair, but in words and measures, in terms of the environment in which financial companies operate. [[The president calls.]] I present as an additional control of financial corporations, the rules on how to react to exposure, as well as on the DG requiring further observation and intervention to ensure the compliance and follow-up of the laws in the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u38	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. Harðardóttir A new book about the government's ownership in financial companies. We will discuss one of the most important steps in the restoration from the collapse of the economy. We are here discussing an enormously important issue for Iceland's National Fund, National Relations, the Icelandic economy and the rest of our society. We will discuss in a brief discussion under the program a special discussion about the most private development in the history of Iceland since the Buddhist Bank was handed over to good friends of the then Polish rulers. To continue the comparisons with the privateisation of the Save Bank in 2003 as well as the Lands Bank in 2003, it is all right to review already reports are being made that the hedge fund is seeking a quarter share in Arion Bank and a huge pressure from the Council of Copenhagen, which is 87% of the bank, is pushing after the sale of the State's share in Arion Bank. Madam President. In Iceland, the track is afraid when it comes to the privatization of the banking system. It was born to convicted financiers, who certainly put their weights on the scales of the collapse, large sections of the Icelandic banking system. So we need to explain who are the ones that are the ones that are most interested in the Arion bank and later in the other banks as the highest. Secretary of finance intends to sell. So I would like to ask, and hopefully an answer will be presented in the final speech. Secretary of the budget: Does the secretary of finance know who is behind the hedge funds that are very desirable to Arion's banks? Is it true what has been said in the media that the main owners of Congress and employees are trying to force the sale of Arion banks into their own interests? What's the highest opinion? Is this the case with the secretary of finance? Now, when the evidence that the owner's policy is presented, as it may be, that it has not been introduced and discussed to the Council before they were introduced to the Home Office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is appropriate to ask: What guarantee does the American public make that the next personal development in the Icelandic banking system on the part of the government is being handled effectively by one person more? Above all, what is the highest purpose and vision. The secretary of the banking system other than subsidies by selling all the parts of the state except the U.S.A. Bank? [[The president calls.]] I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance not to continue running these matters. But good work. [[The president calls.]] Let us secure the interests of the common people, not just the state responsibility that falls on the common people, if mismanages the bank's property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u39	A respectable president. As we have seen, the plans for the government's ownership on the banks are very thin, although they are beautiful in many respects and are to be sold only. It's such a short version of this master policy. In this special discussion, which I thank you for. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter especially for starting, floating old ghosts over the lakes. We hear words such as basement investments, demand and ability, transparent processes, foreign investors, private interest in banks. I'm just chilling. When will we learn from experience? In effect, the payoff force showed that we have not learned from our experience, showing that we are not ready to go to the privatization of banks to the highest degree. The Secretary of Economics and Economics wants to step in. The only thing it proved was the same old Icelandic corruption, or inability, I don't know exactly which is worse. Is private or should not be private? In effect, it is all that needs to be built up. During operations such as This is simply the case with too many pots being broken in Icelandic society and the environment of banking. While much has been done, much is done about EU consequences, so we don't have all the credit for all the good that has been done after a crash, we have to take it very seriously. We need to build trust. If we are going to go into personal development, we need to be private, we need to pay attention to what happened in history because we got to know in 2008 what it means to lose a whole banking system by private hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u40	A respectable president. The above discussion about the future banking system in Iceland, the benefits of separating investment banking and business banking and a discussion of the banking system may not be much of the country's accession policy, but the prospect of the banking system has been continuously revised all over the streets since 2009. In the last few minutes, I have counted 32 changes in financial legislation, and then there are changes in legislation on official financial management, so there have been some developments. But the main point of clearance here is to heal up to business banking and investment banking. Now it's not clear what investment banking means after these discussions here. What took place here in 2003◯2008 is that banks became huge investment funds. They were not investment banks. They began investing in various companies along with their normal banking business, where things got out of hand. The then existing laws against the people should in fact have prevented them, but unfortunately they did not, because of some misunderstanding. But the important thing is that financial companies are controlled, it's one huge risk control. Thus, a total of 339 risks are involved in these budgetary legislations from 2002 in some relationship. What matters here is that financial companies are fired on professional grounds, that individuals can enjoy services at manageable costs. I've been comparing the loan rates of national activation with the ECU of Reykjavík on the one hand with interest in Icelandic banks and I'm shocked. What's called the Paying Department, payoff case, is quite simply a matter of payment in a simple payment media. She's not normal here. She's supposed to be working. That's the big deal. A respectable president. I've finished my case, and I'm sorry I've gone ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u41	A respectable president. What financial systems do we envision? Yes, a servant of financial companies for homes and businesses, in other words the projects of finance companies, traders, shopping, and other businesses are going naturally. These activities need to be normal instead of the intense things that have been seen in recent years. What does this have to do with owner policy? We are in the position today that the State is holding an exceptionally large part of the financial system and is therefore, as many have noted, in an obvious position to cover mountains. about who should be the size of the banking system. Is there anything about that in the master policy? How to reduce the size of the banking system? Or are the interests of those who want to sell the bank's banks not to reduce the bank to get the best of it, set out as the smallest rules to make who are the fit owners, for a scattered property owner, or set rules about who can at the owner's policy acquire the banking system? You have to set rules for maximum share, connections, and entry rules, like what to do. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned? Of course, we need to promote both transparency and competition. In turn, I feel that there is a lack of human attention, how the financial system to serve homes and businesses in the country should become, after the sale is completed. All of us can agree, or most of us, that it is unwise to think that the State has all the banks and too much risk. However, we must also agree that we care who does.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u42	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister and minister. Parliaments before this discussion. V.E.G. A minister showed that the State does not have to have a bank to change their organization. That's right. But is it not more honest and better that potential buyers know how governments want the system to develop? Therefore, it is important to take a course before selling things. Since the separation of business banking and investment banking has not been required, the Sentencing agent is a lender to the problem, not only on account of the interest of depositors, but also because of the function of investment banks. This type of banking activity is a far different and much more risky one. It means that the investment bank buys risky property, guarantees the building of ventures, is involved in complex business ventures, and business dealings with commercial employees. Investment banks see an advantage in encouraging their employees to take the bank's chances for profit and offereries and agreements made available for this purpose. Mixing this with the activities of the depositors is dangerous, as in the case of the Icelandic people. A vision of the future. The financial and economic secretary seems to be that the public is still responsible for the venture of investment banking. Investments are the basis for the national sanctum. Today, communities rely on business banks as always financial resources, and there is no need to stand for long to be seriously damaged. Madam President. Finally, I want to reiterate my encouragement to the highest level. Ministers to have initiatives in consultation with the management, management, and others on how best to build a banking system here in a country that serves in an inexpensive way the public and normal companies in the country and protect the public from high risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u43	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion that's been here today. The track's starting to scare. Yes, it is. I agree with that. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnar's Gunnarsson is not to be repeated from 2003. I reiterate that the Council can establish a law on the separation of commerce and investment banks. In view of today's discussion, I think that it is very important that we take it to the end and think about why we want to do it and how we want to do it. Let's get this over with. It says here about possession of banks. The government's ownership of Iceland's National Bank did not prevent the Borg. Simply put, there is no direct connection between the property of the state and the Ministry of finance on banks and the management of banks themselves. That's where we got the Bank County between us. Right away. The senators worry that they're selling a lot of stuff in the banks, I remind them. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask at its time wanted permission to sell two thirds of the Lands Bank, though the state had no other banks at that time, at least ... nota bankof Iceland right now. I don't know. Also, the fact that there was no separation between investment and business banks at the time of 2009 -2013. A senator sat in a government and even a government official. with a base. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Finally, I want to say this: paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson talks about a peak share in a holding investor. I support that thought, and I support the thought expressed in the language of many whales. Councilmen who have mentioned the importance of building trust in the banking system are very important. I think we agree in many ways. I don't think that trust will be created by planting seeds of suspicion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u44	Madam President. I'm taking up here some issues that show respect for extra taxes on lenses and glasses, closely linked to other discussions that we've had at times here at the council that are worth a tax on drugs, but drugs and lenses and glasses, all these important medical devices, if we can put it that way, are in the top level of the value of the tax system. Now, the lower step, 11%, is defined as factor. Of course, it is first known as food that carries 11% of the value tax. However, there are also books and music, such as tourism and such factors as condoms and tarbers that were moved to this lower level, the condoms for the reason that this type of contraception would be important to a lower value taxation, the product of environmental considerations. In other words, there is not necessarily clear lines on what goes on in each step of the merit of the extra tax system. We have often discussed these matters at a council meeting. Often, the voices from the Ministry of Economics, almost independent of category, but not completely, with a minister, can be heard that it is best to have just one level of merit taxation, it is easier not to keep this in too many steps. It's the cypress that's been very predominant, e.g. In the World Bank, but when it comes to review, it is also the policy that accounts for the actual pay of more taxes, i.e. If we take to make food and later increase in food taxation, the majority of the people were put under weight, since a relatively higher proportion of their expenses are being consumed in food. Thus, the value of the tax system can be a major political tool, although it may not have as much equal effect as a stepwise income tax. But there, of course, we need to discuss matters objectively. I think it's perfectly normal to have more than one step in the cost tax system. However, I also believe that there is good reason to discuss what is at home at each step. In fact, I have another inquiry below, which specifically attracts the books and how we want to contribute to the work environment of a book edition, which is directed to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture, especially from the VAT. But the question I'm asking to the highest. A financial and economic minister is whether he thinks it is a reason to consider these matters in the case of glasses, which, of course, is not the choice of any human to use. They're in the top level of the worth-employment tax system. However, I realize that it is normal to consider the whole language, e.g. in relation to the medicines. According to the information I have acquired, there are 33 European countries that place a merit tax on drugs, whereas 23 of these 33 have the drugs in lower stages. Iceland's got them on a higher level. [[The president calls.]] Similar numbers have I found about glasses in our neighboring countries. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he consider it a reason to reconsider?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Glasses and strong lenses fall into the general level of merit taxation and carry 24% of taxes. We're considering the right to reduce the value of cost taxes on glasses and lenses, and taxing such products in the lower levels of the tax, we weigh on other aspects of specific sensitivity and the view to reduce the amount of access to the cost tax system and simplify the system with increased efficiency. During the last government's work period, the general level of merit taxation was reduced from 25.5% to 24%, and the lower level increased from 7% to 11%. Thus, the gap between the general and the lower steps was reduced. At the same time, the tax stock was improved. Communication between related sectores grew, and the motivation for preconceived activities was diminished. A report by the National Experts' team of the World Bank Fund since May 2014 and the recent assessment of the tax system by national experts has shown the need to simplify the value of the tax system. One factor is to reduce the number of accessions in the system and any variation from wide strains and general steps. The honor of the tax system is the largest tax base for government funds. According to OECD measurements, there is considerable scope for improving the economic efficiency of agrienvironmental tax in Iceland. The increased income efficiency of the system can be achieved if there is no such thing as accession and appeal in the legislation. Research has shown that it is possible to achieve more results in income balance by simplifying the value of the tax system as well as using targeted measures in other areas than using a merit tax to do so. This is stated, for example, in the above report of the World Bank Fund since May 2014. OECD Member States in general have not overlooked eyeglasses and lenses from a value tax or have had such products in a lower level of value tax. A review of the Ministry on a lower level of the tax in the Member States revealed that only one Member State taxed eye contact in a lower level of merit tax. This shows that almost all OECD Member States have decided to tax such products in the general stages of a valuable taxation product, while individual countries may be aware of experiences in other ways to meet those in need of eyeglasses and lenses with strength. The State meets individuals because of the cost of eyebrows, according to the law of No. 160/2008, of the services and knowledge centres for the blind, vision impaired and individuals with integrated visual and hearing impairment and Regulation No. 1155/2005 on participating in the state at a glass buy. Also, those enrolled in unions can receive many strengths because of their binoculars and lens purchases. Then those paid unemployment may request to continue payment for the company and thus enjoy the support and support of other benefits that the union has offered to its members. Then parents who apply for maternity request to pay for unions during the maternity leave. A respectable president. This shows that individuals, both those at work, as well as those paid on unemployment rates and payments from a birth - stock reserve, can generally get strength from their union unions because they buy glasses and lenses with strength. With reference to this, I feel that the value of extra taxes due to the purchase of glasses and lenses will be removed from the general step to the lower level of the cost tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u46	A respectable president. I'm one of those guys wearing glasses. When I was working as a law school employee, my glasses were damaged. Just at home. But it wasn't surprising that I could afford to buy new ones, despite the strength of a trade union. I'm not sure that a lower value tax level would have helped until anything else. This device is vital for me when I get behind the wheel of a car and so do. I've always looked at it like crutches or other things, therefore wheelchairs. This is a vital tool for me. Otherwise, I don't have anything in normal society. I got to try in high school. It wasn't easy. I had grown to know a kid on the other side of the property, depending on whether it was a red or a blue ball. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] At least I support some kind of policy in accepting this as a general aid tool.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u47	President. Listening to the highest standards brings me quite a disappointment. Minister of the System Change Party is here using a thread covering the misunderstanding in simplifying the value tax on necessities. I've had contact lenses since I was a teenager, I had some really big glasses when I was a kid, and I was being harassed, of course, because. But the cost of glasses, e.g. in those who have no excessive amounts of money, they have a lot, especially in children. That's why I'd like to encourage the highest. To encourage us to move these needed aids down to the lower level and to avoid the misunderstanding, which is so disturbing in a talk at the highest. A minister when he was explaining who had the right to explain who had the right but forgot to handle who was not entitled to this support when they needed it most. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u48	A respectable president. It's clear that the Piratars are a lot of glasses, and I'm going to declare disappointment in response to the highest degree. Minister when it comes to this matter. Glasses are expensive. I've been wearing glasses since I was six, seven. I'm blind without glasses. My glasses cost a lot of money. When I was a student, it was not easy to buy new glasses. We're talking about 100 up high. K. For low - income workers, especially for young people, these are quite investments. Such a family may have the same family. At least I know that my family has 100% family members with glasses. So it's just an essential tool, needed for me to be able to live and so many others. I must express great disappointment in answers to the highest degree. Secretary of finance, hoping that he will think his own way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u49	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. members of the council who joined us. First, I'd like to say that it's normal for the public to give strength to those who need glasses. Whether the cost tax system is the best way to do that, I'm not evaluating it in this inquiry. It may be the simplest thing, as we have discussed in the hall, that this will be part of a general payment system. But it is clear that the public is to be strengthened and more supportive of those who need to wear glasses, since there is no choice. I make it clear that I have never had to use such a tool myself. [[Just wait.]] This, however, is something that we hear a lot of, with members of Congress. But I'd like to say it, for answers to the highest. Minister, he clearly says that he does not want to reduce the value of extra taxes on glasses and lenses, I guess not on drugs, either. But I'd like them to have the highest. Minister, because he says he wants to reduce the number of accessories in the cost tax system: Looks the highest. Minister of the lower level of the merit tax system as an exception? Wants the highest. Minister that the merit tax system will be one step? Wants the highest. Ministers raise food tax? Wants the highest. Ministers raise taxes on books? Or the taubleys and the condoms I referred to here, which the Allied decided to lower the level of merit tax after a considerable debate here at the council. This I think is a very important thing to discuss here at the Council. We know and know the complete counseling of the International Cash Fund which is that there should be only one level of merit taxation, relatively high. And they say: "Well, there's a balance of income. But what do you want to do, top dog? Minister? I'm going to the top. So a minister is using himself for increasing step division in the system? I'm going to the top. Minister to promote personality discounts if they are to take up one step on a merit tax? Because, as I said earlier: To raise a tax in order to produce a tax in the past, the worst suffered by low - incomeers. [[The president calls.]] And in many parts of the world, the value tax system is used to meet low - paying employees in various matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u50	A respectable president. I can answer why. A senator and a advocate, for I think it is preferable to believe that it is one of the more valuable tax points. I can imagine it would be somewhere between 18 and 19%. Right away. A senator speaks of the lower level of taxation as a tax deduction that is an unusual view that all people use is food. Last year or meeting, when the value of the tax system was changed, it was demonstrated that domestic spending was not increased because of this, even though food spending was increased, other reductions in expenses were made. Normal people use a variety of products. True, wearing glasses can be difficult for certain families. As we have seen, it has given the State certain possibilities to meet the worst in it, and I have also reminded them that unions provide vast strength to those in it. This is an interesting discussion, but I think it is right to think that the value of the tax system is not the best thing to succeed in this. It pointed out that eyeglasses could cost about 100 pounds. K. and that would be a lot of money, even insurmountable for some. It would also be expected insurmountable if it cost 88 of you. K. and would be very difficult for many. That alone would not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u51	A respectable president. I here direct a fairly simple question to the Environment and Resource Minister on construction costs and review of laws. I think we've all noticed that much has been discussed these days with us about the housing problem. The demand is far beyond the offer. Experts agree that the problem lies primarily because very little has been built since collapse. When you go to Haguems' numbers of completed apartments, which go back to 1970, it appears that there were only about 1,200 apartments completed each year from 1970 to the collapse of the wound. After a crash, between 565 and 1,149 apartments have been completed, between 2009 and 2015. It has been discussed in this discourse that it will draw some attention to the fact that in spite of this situation, there is no discussion of housing in a government contract. There is nothing to be found in the Constitution of Environment and Resource Ministers for the construction of an apartment building, and in spite of the fact that most laws relating to housing and human activities are subject to the minister. I've missed that a minister has not been able to comment on the construction of an apartment building. Recently, a press report from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities reported on the welfare services of the Ministry that a staff of four ministers, social and equal ministers, finance and economic ministers, environmental ministers and transport ministers have been appointed to provide housing proposals within a few weeks. The press release reveals that he has among other things been designed to consider reforming planning legislation to simplify the development of a structure and to analyze the current building order with a simple approach to my building and more efficient apartments. My question is as follows: Will a minister reconsider planning laws and construction laws with the intention of reducing the construction of an apartment building? I want to know if this is being said to be being answered on the above news release. I'm asking if the Minister intends to continue working on the pioneers who were working at her Ministry for the Government Change, the change in the laws of monuments, and the change in organizational laws, of the simple construction administrations with a reduction in construction costs for the control of an apartment building. I ask if this is all the work group to consider, or whether it is also a general assessment of how to speed up the process, how to make it easier for individuals to build, for example, if it remains the Ministry's examination that they should maintain 55 m2 apartments on universal design or if they are willing to examine higher standards. [[The president calls.]] I also ask how we can generally improve our perspective and plan to make sure that the ministers sitting here together can do better with housing supplies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u52	A respectable president. I see that prosecuting is to ask a fellow minister about the same matter. It's just a good thing she gets us both here. [[Up front.]] That is very convenient, very good, for this matter is addressed at home, of course, within many advisers. So I'll answer her first question: Yes, I've been looking into this case and looking at the work of a non-compliant, which former environmental and resource minister started and was expected to cooperate with that. A senator who served as a minister in the Ministry of Social Affairs. That team made a suggestion for the then Minister in December 2015. There were proposals to make adjustments that could result in a reduction in construction costs that included changes. that the streamlining management of the building application and data conditions, to increase the emphasis on internal monitoring instead of forwarding time monitoring, increased flexibility on building manager requirements, and further planning laws on environmental assessments. Following the work group, adjustments were made in the building order, as the senator likely knows. They went into effect on April 29, 2016. The changes were mainly accompanied by the introduction, traffic laws, and the internal compartments of workers as well as by the management of human activities in terms of minor construction permits. Then this group of workers in the past few months has worked on the proposals, for the next question asked was, Do these suggestions begin to change into law? The answer is yes, I expect order, No. 123/2010, take into account the proposals of the requested work group. We aim to see that the bill for a change in monumental and organizational laws will be submitted to the Fall Summit of 2017. In addition to this, we have, like, a beard. A senator read or explained. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has taken the initiative to establish a cross-cutting team, if you can say that, or a minister of consultation that has the case, where we can discuss whether we can behave. I've heard that he doesn't necessarily want to be doing any more reports on the same thing, because it's been working a lot, but we're going to take together what's already been done and put it into practice, so it's got a lot of mind to do, it's in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u53	Madam President. This is an interesting subject, especially in view of the fact that the species represents 30% of the world's total carbon emissions. It must be careful, however, that when people are going to relax in construction regulations, they are not always being lax in terms of the groups that are to be remembered and that they always reduce the demands of equipment and space. It is much better to get us who can afford to live bigger and buy bigger to live less. Today, each Icelander lives in 65 m2 and Finn lives in 34. We're all the more that needs to relax. Then there must be no discount on the quality of the building. The talk about the Icelandic wall, the mold that may have been due to it, and the pressures that have developed in modern life - styles - they need to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. Foreman for bringing up the baldness of the government policy declaration of housing. I don't necessarily think that changing the law is the big solution to housing, but I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to describe myself among the friends of the building order, as I could hear. Einarsson Let's do it. The building principle seems to me that there are two things that have been too much to think of in recent years. On the one hand, consumer protection and quality are; to determine how to build monuments, we will not be facing a few years of spending billions of dollars a year in mold damage. However, the question is, How do we live in a community? Absolute design dictates that we make our community accessible to everyone so that we are not judging disabled people into a special dwelling, but we are making every structure available to people so that anyone can live anywhere, that they just need to change the equipment inside a box; that space is available to us to choose all living places where we want to live. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u55	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with the discussion that has been discussed, it's very important to engage in action, and that cooperation between state and rural communities is about the distribution of property, organization and other factors in helping people to get started and build small and medium-sized apartments. Among other things, very high and increasing real - estate prices are the shortage of small and medium - sized apartments in our other fine society. Also, I would like to stress that we increase flexibility in building order. That's what I believe is very possible without the loss of bioavailability or absolute design. We need to allow people to have more information about how they organize their living quarters in cooperation with those whom they intend to consult without the burden of too much money and how they deal with various biofuels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u56	President. I'm also gonna thank you for this discussion, I think it's important. It's a pleasure to see this report of a coordinated action and a member of the Ministers' team, I think it's important. But I just wanted to bring in the financial resources of the apartment market. Sometimes I feel like banks and others are competing to bring as much exciting numbers as possible about what real need is into the apartment market. Then I'd like to hear it from a minister where these statistics are now. I know it was part of the national organization to gather them. It's kind of weird, considering all the official information we have at the construction agency that we have no better information about what's going into the market. We're always following our tails a little bit. This is where we're talking about less apartments being lacking, but maybe they're all around the corner. I'm also going to agree with this discussion about the quality and importance of living in an apartment. [[The president calls.]] In his due time, we must keep in mind the social riches we enjoy. This is not good when a whole neighborhood is taken under uniformly. It's very important to mix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u57	President. In a very similar situation in the past, the Britishholm was built. It was very high rent prices, it was difficult for people to get into an apartment market. Then the members joined together and found out how to build in a practical and rapid way. In spite of this operation, it worked very well. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir notes, the neighborhood became a tiny, unique neighborhood. That's what we're going to do in the next operation. As a boy, I was living in the village. For example, there was the Eyjahun, based on the Aegean Sea. It was built very fast, very fast. There was a need. Now is the time. I don't understand why we haven't done things yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u58	Madam President. This is a very important subject. I come to agree with a number of people here that have spoken about the need for all of this somehow to be in hand, quality, variety, consumer protection, bioavailability issues, prices, and mixing. This may not all work out in the same apartment, but it has to be agglomerate that we think about access issues, about different apartments, we're supposed to say a few things. Perhaps it is only natural for some middle - aged or middle - aged people to buy more expensive and better prepared apartments while starting to buy more simple and inexpensive apartments. But it is natural for them to meet the standards and the like. [[The president calls.]] I agree with this by ensuring that you do not create a custom-coded neighborhood where things are different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u59	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his answers, and my fellow members' interest in this matter. I hope this interest will result in a rapid and effective performance of the work force. I would like to present the suggestion to the Environment and Resource Minister that the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is a matter related to housing. It could be a bandworm if it could be brought in with a change or even that a minister might add a little to his list. There may be something that we could do before spring, but don't wait until the fall to bring needed changes that have even been in preparation for quite a while. I'd like to agree with what they're talking about here about the diversity. It is necessary to consider all households, as I have said many times. This means that we need to have a wide variety of housing. The problem we are constantly dealing with - and I have two questions involved, one for Prime Minister and one for secretary of finance, simply about what information we have on the current investments. We've got these files, like a dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir here pointed out. They exist at the locals' home. They exist at Organizational Organization. But it seems that they do not return, even as economics, which we then make major decisions that lead to the financial affairs of the State. It proved true, for example. projections about residence investments in 2015 did not work out at all. You ask yourself, " Is it because we don't have enough data? ' Finally, I would like to encourage the Ministers to consider diversity so that we are talking not only about dense development but about how we can speed up planning in general, how we can make it easier for individuals as well as lawmakers to build. [[The president calls.]] It has been shown that after a collapse, we have not been able to maintain enough knowledge, we have lost people, and we have left the country. However, we have young and healthy people who might be interested in building themselves today. Why don't we guarantee our variety and, eventually, our conversation with our communities?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u60	A respectable president. I thank the advert for the discussion and all of them. Councilmen who have participated in it; it has been very helpful to me. Like what? paritaprevir As a carbon track, the Einarsson came into their mouths - I have been deeply involved in climate - the construction industry was enormously high. Hence, it is important to do well in building a building order, so that we are not building a house that may not be good enough or that is not well - founded or that is not suitable for, or is not suitable; a house that then needs to be torn down and built. That's not how it works. I want to be clear that in all of the discussions that take place, at least in my ministry, it is not a matter of relaxing the building order, not at all, but of fixing processes and improving the effectiveness of institutions and organisations to make things work better. Of course, access, consumer protection, and quality are important. We must not change a building order to sacrifice it. I don't think that's something else. I mean, about what happened here from the night. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. A saying of what's going into the market is true, that it seems that there are no uniform financial numbers on that subject. It is also important for state funds and financial productions that we know what is going on, we know the expansion that may be coming so that we can arrange other investment projects accordingly. [[The president calls.]] This is for the development of the Organization. I hope we can bring something up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u61	A respectable president. I have an inquiry to the highest level. Health Minister for the Anxiety of Children and Youths There's been some media coverage on this matter and also the first case I brought up here. Shortly before my minister's arrival, I had a very interesting meeting with a representative of the governor and a representative of the Research and Analysis, who have been thinking about public health and how our children are doing. The data they had at this meeting revealed that since the year 2000, anxiety has been growing among children and adolescents, especially girls. It's shocking to see these figures, the magnitude of the increase; even if you look back, even in the last four years. How different this is from what we see in other figures in these studies! In many respects, the situation of our children is good. We see that they are likely to spend time with their parents, likely to spend leisure time. They drink less, they smoke less. The results we've achieved, in the memory of children and teenagers drinking alcohol and tobacco, have given us a lot of attention beyond the rocks. In a way, though, we see red warning lights flashing more and more rapidly as the frequency of anxiety among children and adolescents is increased, and this is mostly among girls. Those who have been working on these studies have identified some explanations, including the increased use of community media. They talk about testing, drug intake in high school, parents' finances, and children's lack of freedom as a potential source. But then it is also pointed out that some 303/40% of the students who respond to these surveys are sleeping about 7 hours. Or less a day, even as some girls sleep with their phone behind their back and wake up every announcement they make. We know, from scholars, that anxiety in a child who is not treated can develop into depression over several years and thus have serious consequences; various risk behaviors, school discharges, and difficulty at work. The government covenant refers to mental - health services. That's very good. It is said to increase access to it, to talk about psychology services and health care at high school, and to provide additional support to parents who then have mental disorders, not especially to mention the children themselves there, and also to the insurance system. I'd like to mention here that Karl Garðarsson, former senator of the Future Party, had proposed a plagion of the child's mental health program, with the emphasis on prevention, screening, delinquency, and other factors. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'd like to hear from the highest level. Ministers of how he intends to follow the government covenant and respond to these striking numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u62	The president would like to remind the speakers to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir especially for this pleasant inquiry about anxiety among children and young people. That's a very important subject. Those of us who have been involved in school are well aware of this problem that has been taking place, should we say, more and more. When it comes to anxiety, it is a particular concern that he seems to be as much as little girls do, but in recent decades we've focused on other problems of children, ADHD problems, and other problems that seem to be more wary of boys than girls. Anxiety has been a form of hiding, as it were. It is important that we take these findings seriously. I'd like to start by mentioning, like, cot. A senator mentioned in his speech, that in the government's declaration of policy, issues of mental health are clear and consistent with the policies and procedures of mental health that were adopted at the General Assembly on April 29, 2016. There will be emphasis on ways to enhance the availability of effective service and to deal with mental health problems sooner or later. Then I'd like to remind you of some of the activities of high school, high school, playing, and play, which have been going on for some time. They're from a land surgeon's office in cooperation with local communities, high school and high school. It stresses the prevention and overall approach to strengthen children and young people, including mental - health professionals. It is important to further strengthen the work with the aim that as many schools in the country become more healthy, which is in line with the government's policy of promoting a career in the field of prowess and public health. Then I'd like to mention that in September the Minister's Committee for Synchronization of Public Health and Health Action, with special emphasis on children and young people at the age of 18. The measures proposed for this policy vary in length and distance, either in progress or further. I would especially like to mention that now there is an added access to health care facilities that play a key role as the first center of health care, especially for children and young people. Then there are plans to further strengthen a multidisciplinary approach to health care services and, including psychological services that should be more appropriate to the needs of children and adolescents. Then there is the need to work on a schedule for increased levels of long - term health care. There are many opportunities for telecommunications, and there are indications that especially young people are suitable. It has been mentioned and discussed, and an excellent council proposal is made here at the council to ensure psychological services for high school youths. It is a project that we will support in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Education. I expect the resources I have mentioned here and the tasks either carried out or during the preparatory phase will be of direct or indirect benefit to children and adolescents, especially to girls with anxiety disorders, and possibly to prevent anxiety disorders in children and adolescents. Then I'd like to remind you that in the years before and after failure, the tests we have made revealed the impact of economic and social conditions on young people's positions seemed to have. The unexpected conclusion came after the collapse that as measured by a decrease in the number of children who had little family ties, measurable anxiety was lower, and concern was lower in young people at the time of the collapse. Seemed to have had some effect on the families and the people of the land. It is of particular concern that these measurements are now being raised, since these were evidences of measuring in which Icelandic and Icelandic youths excelled in positive measurements. I look forward to the discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u64	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for taking up this enormous and important matter, one of the greatest health problems in young people's lives, their mental health. As well as a large British study of anxiety among young girls presented in Britain last September, which shows the same results, are evidence of recent research and analysis. A child's manager also announced at a meeting with members of the council for a year ago that the child's mental health issues and young ones were one of the strongest litigators entering the table of that office. We can't wait any longer. So I want to encourage the highest. A health minister to focus on practical ways to improve right away in this age group and to enter into this progressive problem with the aim of reducing the rate of mental illness in young people and children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u65	President. It is vital to look at this group in a collective way because it is all too common for parents to run into walls of the system when it comes to mental health of young people and then when the child reaches 18 years of age. That's why I hope to the highest. A health minister will be a great source of strength to this work when it comes to taking a whole lot of action. It's one of its smells, and I'm glad we talk about it here. But there are a lot of people who suffer more than anxiety. The form of anxiety can be complex. I hope, indeed, that here is a transnational agreement that both of this work at the council in good cooperation with the Ministry as well as being in important cooperation with the interest groups that have come and introduced us to this party when it comes to mental health of children and teenagers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u66	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by saying right now that I want to encourage the highest. A minister who takes the initiative to shorten a waiting list, campaign to increase the number of psychiatrists, and facilitate access to them in the health system, as examples are for the physical component of illness. It is important to put into practice spiritual distress and such factors. Of course, I am concerned about the development and the number of people we see about the increase in anxiety and a variety of problems that are present in children. As has been traced, he is rooted in various factors. It is very important that we take action to deal with this problem now that he grows bigger and more complex and thus may become more serious later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u67	A respectable president. Let's make good for children. A baby-friendly world is a good world for everyone. I would like to mention only that we have a legalized United Nations children's covenant, where a few articles specifically address that point. It explains what is best for children. The right to life and development. A key article in this article is training and training. Health protection. Living conditions. And especially rest and leisure. That is especially where I refer to school. School hours, such as they are now designed, are not necessarily suitable for children, it is suitable for adults. Starting at 0800 is not necessarily good for the children, it's good for the older ones and me. So there is much to consider in the present - day environment. We need to think about it again with regard to our children, not our adults, who are better able to adjust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u68	Madam President. I come up here like I used to, to help you understand the importance of looking at the bigger picture. We need to examine the motivations in the systems and how we provide for families and just all our fellow citizens, especially social and economic rights, and consider how much these activities affect our children's anxiety at such times. To compete in education or just competition in the community. The priorities in which we often lose sight of real values are so important that we do not lose ourselves in just treating our symptoms. Although it is very important to do so, we must also attack the root of the problem, and that is what we often need to analyze the motives of our society, what kind of influence they have on families in which our children grow up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u69	Madam President. I have previously expressed myself on this subject from the World Hall of Congress and my experience as a high school teacher who has had to look at their students at their backs when they have fallen victim to the so - called breakdown of spiritual illness. Anxiety here is taken out of parentheses, but it is certainly a smell of what I believe is one of the greatest health issues of our time and one of the greatest challenges of our time. At a conference I attended in the Faeroe Islands this weekend, the headline of one of the corneas was: Women suffer, men die. It was very striking. Sadly, many men choose to end their lives when they face spiritual problems. I'd like to encourage the highest. A health minister for cooperation and conversation with a minister of education, especially in order to find out why this is the case, but not just to find out how to deal with the consequences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u70	The president would like to remind the senators to respect the session.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u71	Madam President. I thank you for your discussion, too. I'm glad to hear that. A minister speaks of a cross-cutting approach. I think it's important, especially within the clinic. I am also happy to hear about my extended health care. I think there's something we're supposed to try to come into use with some sense as the first thing we've got there, that's why we got a lot of spreads to help. It is not easy to get psychologists out of school all over the country, except every week, and that is not always enough. The minister received signatures for more than 11 thousand persons during the days, just one week ago, as he was encouraged to provide psychological services on the basis of other health care services, i.e. Through health insurance. I'd like to hear the minister's attitude on whether he thinks it's possible, i.e. It's different than just the health care unit. I think that if we are to fulfill the United Nations Children's Covenant as explained earlier, we will have to do some good things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u72	A respectable president. Yes, it's a big problem and unfortunately it's growing and it's, I think, in common in many countries. I was also coming from a conference where young people in Western America, i.e. Greenland, Faeroe Islands, Iceland, assembled. At the top of that list was access to psychological or mental - health services. From there, news is tragic. I think we're doing just fine, though. I just wanted to remind you that there are some changes in society that have just become shared, Facebook, competition, and comparison. There is constant harassment on children and adolescents, and such as us adults, who are constantly demanding that we act in a certain way. [[The president calls.]] Young people are under great pressure. I think we need to take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u73	Madam President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson recommended himself to the highest degree. Minister spoke to his colleagues at the highest. Secretary of education. What I want them to say is the insane provision of the last government to shorten high school to three years without any consultation with high school students. This decrease was thought of to put labor into the labour market as a presumption of deportation. But I think it's trying to get more stress. At the same time, mental health problems are increasing, and discontinuation will increase rather than reduce it. I think it's a serious matter that the two Ministers need to look into.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u74	Madam President. Thank you for the voter. This is an important matter that burns on many people. For years, I have been in Breiðholt, where I have been screened for anxiety about children in the ninth grade. I'd like her down to fifth grade. At the same time, I have been working on other assignments that have been carried out with my family as a family. These include the work Knicks, children who work with children and family at the same time to cope with anxiety. I agree with what. paritaprevir St Steindór Valdimarsson's regard of the social impacts and that society develops so rapidly that it is so highly challenging to children and families. How important it is, then, that we cherish their children and mental health, for certain spiritual conduct that continues with them in our lives! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussion on this very important subject. I am also one of those coming from the Faeroe Islands, where we had an interesting conference in the Western Institute for Equal Opportunity, with special emphasis on the status of men. Anxiety and depression were introduced there. They have dark numbers in this regard. I would like to encourage the Minister to work with our friends in these Western countries to examine what is going on and whether we can react in some way in this regard. Actually, I think it's very good to be the highest, too. Secretary of education and the highest. Health Ministers work together on this subject. However, I wanted to put my view into line with what was earlier pointed out about the age limit in high school that I don't think it has anything to do with this. Actually, I think it was a reasonable arrangement. You also need to consider the social circumstances of the children in school. I know this from school that I have particularly watched that there are sixteen - year - olds and 25 - year - olds who may not have very much in common high school. [[The president calls.]] Other solutions should then be provided for older ones. It's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u76	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I just want to come up here in the light of the last speaker's words, OK? paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. This discussed not only the age limit but also the fact that high school was reduced to three years. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was particularly involved in his speech and the special extra stress it brings for the students who suddenly have to finish out school in three years instead of four. It may also add to the stress and strain of not having time to extend your study and to taking the time you think you really need to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u77	Madam President. I'm gonna get to the bottom of it and finish my speech. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Ottar's Óttarsson, Proppér. The fact is, in the last 15 years, schooling in elementary school has actually increased by a year and a half. It would have been much easier to cut the study short than to increase the pressure on the young, especially since you hear that in the tenth grade, they often sit idle and have what they're supposed to be doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u78	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. I think all of us here in the hall can agree that we are concerned about this and that a health minister should discuss this assignment with a minister of education and that a minister of education should discuss this assignment with a health minister. I have no doubt that the current minister of education knows this problem very well. What must also be mentioned and I believe is the identifying mark of the two ministers we've discussed here, that they've both been working on projects involved in the coordination of services and how to be more supportive with people in the immediate environment. Current level. A health minister had a project on the Britishholette and the work that Reykjavíkurburg has been doing on screening and the former health minister and the current minister of education had the so-called Akureyri model, which was long quoted when it came to co-ordination and cooperation in the close environment. So here again, let me mention a synonym made by Karl Garðarsson, former senator of the Future Party, reenacted a program of mental health care for children and adolescents, which is where the first preventive measure is called. The reason we here encourage this conversation is that we would like to work together to prevent our children from needing health care when the problem has become a serious problem. We have been very effective in prevention when it comes to drinking alcohol and using tobacco. We have worked hard to make sure that our children spend less time in the evening, that they spend more time with their families. We should be able to do the same. [[The president calls.]] If the figures say that our children don't sleep enough, try to make sure they sleep more. If they say that their phones are hurting them, they reduce their use of phones in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u79	Madam President. I thank you for this wonderful discussion, and I want to agree with the encouragement I have received from you, okay? Senators. I so deeply agree that this project is not only on my side of the medical objective but also on the cooperation of health Ministers and Education Ministers, as well as the cooperation of the state and rural society, who carry a lot of service in the neighborhood and in the school environment, as well as the cooperation of family and school. That is why I especially loved to hear about the test project in Breiðholt, a Breinholt project, a cooperation project with school, health care, city, and state, sports associates, and so on. One of the major reasons why our young people have been successful and how well we have seen great numbers and results, for example. for less consumption in the last 10 to520 years, there has been a particularly powerful youth and youth labor, sports, as well as musical and cultural work, a wide range of youth and postschool activities that have met pressures in the school system, as it were. I think it's very important what was mentioned just at the end of the day that we should look at this not only from the health plan, which I do in my speech as health minister, from the time of our problems, but also from the prevention, not only with regard to what we're going to forbid, but also what we're going to put positive in the bag. [[The president calls.]] Thank you so much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u80	A respectable president. I ask you a question to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture on distribution and telecommunications. I've got some history here what's to ask about suspension and telecommunications even though they've only been reduced while I was in the Minister's Office. But to come here as a senator I would very much like to discuss the structure of distribution and telecommunications at the Ministerial and University level, as well as the funding for the development of distribution and telecommunications. In the Treaty, the Convention shows that a study program will be developed further to meet the different needs and circumstances of students. How happy I am to see that the government covenant specifically mentions telecommunications! However, when I had these conversations with the then educational minister, there had not been any special public policy in telecommunications and the responsibility for the structure of the study and professional responsibilities at each school, and the partnership between school was limited. However, in 2010 a team was appointed to be the head of a high school telecommunication and spread program. There, the group suggested that a course be established in a high school high school course with a central perspective, a greater cooperation between schools in quality and services with school students, and an opportunity for spreading and telecommunication at the same time as day school, and a wide range of study opportunities would be offered. It was also said to promote research, increase the availability of ongoing education for teachers, and promote professional support for them in the field. It also spoke of the importance of setting things straight in Iceland's Teacher Association and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on how to define the teacher's work in telecommunications and distribution classes. I think there are a number of these suggestions that can easily be transferred to the university. An ex-concommunicator of the Framework Party, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, proposed that a minister would be assigned to work a course of advanced university education and then was looking forward to the importance of telecommunications, as I have sometimes put it, to be one of the most efficient and efficient settlements ever performed here in Iceland, to ensure that individuals equally have the opportunity to study throughout the country get access to educated employees, such as we have seen. As for basic school teacher, we've already seen it when it comes to nurses how important it is to offer this study for telecommunications and distribution. Therefore, in view of the last figures I found, there were about 20% except at the advanced and university level of telecommunication or distribution, although this is now in old figures, I also saw that women were there in the greater part - I am very interested in simply hearing from the minister's policy of building up the building, and, unfortunately, the funds to the education system and also spread and distance after the collapse, whether the minister intends to keep an eye out for building up and telency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u81	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to state that I'm very much in favor of the teaching program that has been called exodus and telecommunications. This is also in harmony with the government's policy declaration as well. A senator and an advising committee. I think it's a perfect way to do that, including... to be able to expand and strengthen the level of education in the region, where we are in a situation where we can offer as wide a study as possible to a larger urban area. I also say in the beginning of my speech that I have not come up with a fixed opinion of how or what to define a formal policy for suspension and telecommunications. This is a matter that needs to be considered and taken time to get into it. If we watch high school, we will see that this has been a growing part of the study there, i.e. in high school. In effect, this is one type, a type of method, of teaching. Not necessarily in an individual school organization but primarily in learning or teaching programs for individual courses. Students then spend at least part time in class. Several high schools have organized a special program for study in which only telecommunications and students seldom arrive or never go to that school. Those who have been the most active at this time are the High School of the Daytime School, the Versailles, and the Academy of Design at Akureyri. In that school there is a considerable educational program on the sidelines of 2016, a total of 1,700 students took advantage of these schools. Of these, about 1,100 were in the High School at the Year's Day, or about 65% of all high school students were learning long distances. These are part - time studies with most students, and on average they study two phases at a time. Elimination is considerable, about 40%, at the High School of the Year, and about 30% in the other schools. Plus, more schools have come in. I'd especially like to mention the University of High School at the Grinch and the High School of Egls. On the other hand, there has been a spontaneous phenomenon called the University of Far - Education in 2012, where the cooperation is 13 high school in the country. It's about time for that. There are 500 students at that school, all of whom are about 100 years of age. Spread out is something else. It is thought to make it easier for students to live in smaller places or to live on a longer home. It has been held at the head of the Northland School of the Sanctuary in the Red Sea, where it is run in the Sahili, Hólmi, and Investose. We know the same thing about Ley's school. The study, though, is some kind of a mixture of telecommunications and secondary education. There are a number of options involved. But if I just jump into college, too, then in 2015 students from university education are about 3,000 people, 15% of all college students. Of these, most of them were in the University of Iceland, 1420, or 10% of the students. At the University of Akureyri, about half of the students were distant students, 65% were in Hólarum, and at Bifröst, the proportion has reached 80%. There are faster advances, mainly in technical and educational fields, which have led to the development of new methods. We can't see the end of it. When asked how this is so, how it is growing and prospering, and to be conceived, the Joint Committee of Public Colleges, which has been conducted for cooperation between universities, including, in this field. The point of this, when we're dealing with the telecommunication, is fundamental to my mind that while developing this telecommunication, we must not compromise our views on the university. The main project is to create a strong, living learning community. It is suggested that people really have conversations, that is, the social part of the study. In terms of financing, this is shown in a financial program until 2021. There's the policy goal for this. The budget for high school is expected to increase more than the prices of the presidents in 2017●2021, and the university has also had certain funding in it, even though it is not specialized, except for the University of Akureyri, which has received special funding for the preparation and full - time development of telecommunications, and it will be evaluated in 2018. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u82	A respectable president. The following is a discussion of transport plans, parish plans, guidelines, and so forth. It's good to say. The discussion on distribution and telecommunication, of course, is related to what will be discussed very much afterwards. This is one of the largest, most powerful settlements to be performed, i.e. To pursue university education in the scattered areas of the country. In the East, I'm telling you, the situation is 80% of college students are moving from there. I'm afraid to go with the high percentage of those people coming back, but it's way too low. We also know that the majority of college students are women. It would be especially important and urgent that they be able to attend their home studies from the fact that their prospects are more often than not decisive when it comes to where people choose to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u83	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is very important to be on guard to increase the funds for public education and telecommunications at both the college and the college. They have given themselves an exceptionally well - equipped course, since children may be at home for longer than 15 to 16 years of age, in which conventional high school is not available. At the same time, it has been observed that the longer a person lives at home, the more likely he is to settle back in his homework after he has finished his studies. It's done well, and it was even. The report by the Western Committee, which produced during the last term, points out that since these provisions were offered so well as suggested in the Committee that there would be a distribution department in the Rhools. Now there is a request to the highest level. Minister on his view of it. But I welcome the positive that just came from the highest level. Minister of distribution and telecommunications, and I'm sure we'll be hoping that in the years to come, we'll increase the number of lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u84	Mr. President. I also thank the advisor as well as the highest. Minister for the answers. We know from our district, as he came in so well, both the Grinch High School and the High School of Education, how well he's given it, and as his education as well as the Lath School, Thord, and theft of weapons. But how important it is that we strengthen these little units so that people will believe that they are here to be and that students will see their best in being there! We know that having these young people there is a big difference in the lives of our communities, but it is also the cost of parents. I agree with what you're saying. A senator with regard to cooperation and separation at a daily school. It is the goal of university and high school, as it will be. But that is the possibility that we may have to further strengthen ourselves by means of financial contributions, especially in distribution studies, so that everyone can stand as on the level of learning, for that has not been the case everywhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u85	A respectable president. I've been going through the whole education system about twice, going to night school and telecommunications and preschool and reschooling, and I don't know what. In my Physics class, I was studying just how students worked together on the Internet. In all these vast educational districts I've been in, I've had the view that we have a huge opportunity to change a lot of things in the way we learn. We have methods and technologies that enable us to renew what has been previously created. I'm the highest. Educator of education strongly to have clear policies, e.g. Cooperate with the study material, where teachers and even students can add to a package to design lessons for generations to come. [[The president calls.]] Then they will be a living environment of study and education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u86	Mr. President. First of all, I'm glad that men are generally aware that this is an advantage that needs to be developed and examined. Real equality for study is not something to be talked about while living under the circumstances that not all children in this country can simply afford to study. It's a question of economy, just like many other things. There are still some families who cannot afford to send their children to high school. That sucks in the 21st century. But this is a pleasant discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u87	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. There have been many comments that I can agree with, especially how clearly the minister answered regarding his emphasis on distribution and telecommunication and his belief in the importance of what we offer. I'd also like to agree, though this particular question about suspension and telecommunications, that we are part of the community. However, I would like to remind you that more than half of the numbers I have of the students who are in distribution and telecommunications are living in the capital area. It is obvious that here people are choosing a type of study that suits their lives so that they can study, cooperate with their work, and think that this is the most appropriate study. It has also been very interesting to see, as mentioned, the evolution that has been the same with the school of education. But I have, and that's one of the things I would like to encourage the Minister to keep in mind, would like to see Iceland's High School do better in the development of new teaching techniques, since there are a lot of studies that just are available there, and unfortunately it has not always been available for the whole country and for people who may not be able to go to daily school. This is one of the things that I think I need to consider. And because this was specifically about high school, I want to mention as a standard model for the University of The Highlands and Islands, which is looked forward to the cooperation of different colleges out of the country. [[The president calls.]] It was a long and good dream for me, and hopefully some day, people will be able to make a distant university, not just a school of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u88	A respectable president. I also appreciate this discussion. It's empty in no way. There's a lot of fermentation in this sector. I know the colleges are looking into things. Similarly, there has been a great deal of knowledge in high school, and some college champions there are even new abroad to share their experience, etc. I'd like to mention specifically, because of what. paritaprevir Einar Brynjólfsson discussed the discussion of the transport program: The premise for our success is that all the people throughout the country have access to a powerful network connection. Perhaps one of the biggest steps we could take to promote spread and telecommunications in Iceland is to strengthen the infrastructure of transportation and telecommunications. In fact, it is the basis for us to complete the dreams presented here in the Senate case. But because of the college discussion, we must also be careful that universities are independent institutions and procedures of learning and teaching, according to a policy set by each of these independent institutions. It is not simple to tell them exactly what they are doing in these areas, but it is already possible that the funding of this so - called community network of public universities, which, in part, has been used to contribute to the development and changes in the way they teach and integrate and cooperate with them in this so - called university education program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u89	A respectable president. As mentioned in the presentation of the highest. The president will submit my inquiry to the terms and positions of artists and will turn, if we go directly to the core of the matter, in fact, about the possibility of artists to be paid for their work, and hence the social value of art, which I don't think anyone doubts. But when it comes to the fact that artists are paid for their jobs, society is caught, whether it is a state or a local or a member of the community. It's the hiccup I want to pray for. Minister to wonder with me. In many countries, both Sweden, Norway, and Denmark have made a fixed agreement on the approval of artists, which has since served as a pattern for a fixed agreement in Iceland. The European Arts Board has particularly supported this initiative by presenting these outlines and by wishing that museums and artists can cooperate with this model. It is, in fact, about the fact that not only are artists paid to sell their arts but it is also for what they do and do in museums, whether they are museums fired by themselves or by state or country. Now it is clear that there is no wealth in the park to pay for artists to cover the costs for their work. It seems to me that the U.S. government's financial laws are up to 700 million. K. to graphics in general, but if the United States were to match the Union arts'idea, it would be to increase financial resources to artists of 90 to 100 million. K. A year's basis. That, of course, is the point here. The question as it presents in my inquiry to the highest degree. First of all, how does a minister feel that there is the best way to improve the position and ideal of artists? Second, how does a minister intend to improve the position of art in Iceland in general? It also discusses the educational system, education, and extramarital, bioavailability, etc., all of it. And I finally ask the highest. The minister's attitude is to the task that has been gently tore down, the project we pay for artists.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate for the inquiry of these three teams. It is undisputed that the social value of art is enormous. I share my opinions with him. A senator on that subject. I'm gonna run down to these three questions and answer them. ▪ How does a minister feel he should improve the quality and status of an artist? I believe that only a small part of the government's operations in this country are being carried out, rather than in many other lands, by the fact that cultural life is a state or standing, and by government donations. In particular, the reputation of artists and artists is influenced by public opinion at any given time. There are people in the country who buy books, pick up performances, go to concerts, and buy published music, etc. It's the most important thing about artists. It is the people and the companies who buy the work and thus spend most of their resources. To improve the quality and status of artists and artists as well as other artists to put forth effort and encourage the people of the country to enjoy the art, enjoy the culture offered, buy books, go to theaters, attend concerts, buy music, attend art shows, and enjoy the fruits of the work that these good people are putting in and serving at the table for us to develop as humans. This will be best achieved by less cultural training through the school system, cultural media coverage, and public discussion in society, by promoting the awareness that culture and thus art are important aspects of society, and we would all be much less poor without it. ▪ How does a minister intend to improve the position of art in Iceland? In itself, there is no simple answer. If I look at this from the government, it can turn to the school system, wherever we look at it. Of course, if we look deeper into the group of litigators, we can do so by creating artists an opportunity for personal pursuits. In the field of arts as well as in other arts, many of it has been done and wishes have been met largely, not entirely, as countries and rural societies run museums, and the government places funds on special movie centres in art. In other words, the main tools used for this purpose are two, one for artists, where the State pays artists for a certain period of time so that they can do the arts, and the other is contributions in an art fund, such as a dog. forciblely, it was possible. That fund gives artists strength to specific projects. The peak to these two major factors has changed in recent years. As a result, the crisis took its toll over the past few years. A 20% increase in the arts work since 2014 and an 80% increase in the arts Fund since 2014. Of course, there will always be debates as to what constitutes much or little in these areas as well as others. In my mind, however, it is quite clear that contributions to the art fund are lower than donated to other tasks in the art field. I hope that I will be able to work on improving the balance of this field over the next few years while helping to revise the cultural support systems in the general state that I find to be overly complicated in the present form. ▪ What is the minister's position on the project ◯ We pay the artists to the project to show them? This is a consistent inquiry from what happened. Last year, a senator for the Ministry of Education. I hope so. A senator respects me as a pity that I have not come very far into this assignment. Yet, this inquiry gave me reason to put myself in on these matters slightly without my having taken their stand. It is obvious, however, that there are many opinions, but this will be one of the projects that I'm facing ahead of the Ministry, to shape the attitude toward the opinions established by the European Arts of America, and then see to it whether we can bring it to its conclusion. I certainly hope that the matter will continue following the discussion we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u91	Mr. President. Now it is true that not all artists can rely on the sale of their work. They are. And art does not just bring joy, nor does it just a mirror of society. This is a economic question. Ideas are actually involved, in visual arts, in the same role as college research is in the pursuit of professional life. Thus we, who have been educated and trained in architecture, clothing designers, photography, graphic design, and so on, are totally dependent on this clear form of thought. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister of education to promote the payment of a demonstration of his actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u92	A respectable president. I want to thank the captain for this question and the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for his answers. What I would like to mention in particular is that I feel very grateful that the minister has made such a clear comment recently, for example. Housing of the National Institute of Art It's very important that we have a better art education, and really what I want to call an art and work education in Iceland. We haven't done it that well. V.E.G. A minister in particular mentioned money in general to strengthen directly, but it is vital that we increase our study. However, I would also like to mention specific strengths and gender proportions and have direct inquiry to the minister regarding this and hope to see a written answer to it. I think it's very important when we consider improving the quality and strengthening of certain projects that there are also intended to have equal sex rights and guaranteed, as we have seen that it has not always been, that both sexes are equal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u93	Mr. President. It has often been said that art is a mirror of society. That's something we've had a thousand years of history to prove in a way. It has long been so that the ideal arts have been somewhat different. After all, people have bought art and paintings, and it's a bit like books, and let's say music CDs like they've been doing even though the Internet is changing. But new arts that are expensive productions have been developed, they are big jobs, they are not civilised jobs. It's about how such works can enter museums and shows, and that is why the special contribution of public officials really needs to be made, not just a salary or a scholarship from an art fund, but also a source of strength to the museums. They are very expensive when it comes to buying and setting. It's very important that the state and all of us strengthen the image of Iceland that is an art form. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u94	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of Congress for the participation in this discussion that I believe is of utmost importance. Happily, we are bathed in products every day in all our works. That's what we need to maintain, art is not the size of the rest but, rather, part of a strong, strong, sustainable culture. We need to be aware of this. Therefore, as with other aspects of a healthy community, the market law is not enough to provide for them. Rather, we need, as noted here by various members of the council, to maintain culture and art in themselves and its importance as food for other aspects of society. I'm glad to hear it. A minister speaks of increasing the balance between arts and thus strengthening the position of art. I think there are certain messages that come out of this discussion. I respect him for his pity that he has not really had a very long time to learn exactly what is being asked of him, i.e. We pay artists, who are the way of artists to arrive at the table responsibly, not just saying: There is something to be done, but there is an outline and a way to do it more fully than ever has been. I understand the highest. Minister will be pleased to call the Union arts for a conversation with the Minister on his position and implementation, possibly on this particular project. I'd like to be here at the end of the day to ask the highest. A minister on the scene of an art decoration fund, about 1% of the construction costs of public buildings, went to an art decoration for each building. We know that since the first day, we feel better about buildings where art has existed. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of schools and parenting institutions that many of us know. But I'd like to ask you about the management of art decoration funds and top position. Minister to fund operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u95	A respectable president. So I try to answer the last inquiry unprepared, it reminds me that there is a separation in all government funds for public buildings on decorations and that this law has replaced the fund of decorations at its time, so that the role of the art of decorations today is primarily to follow through on the basis of this government policy. Regarding what has been said here on the value of art and art in general, I agree with the views presented here on the importance of this art form in our society, whether to make us happy or to rip us out of reality and to make us see things in a new light. It's very important, it's very important to me. To me, art isn't the size left over like a whale. A candidate declared, and in the same way, I can fully agree with what was presented here and was put into words that the art was the mirror of society. What concerns them, however, is. paritaprevir Logi Már Einar Einarsson mentioned payment for artists: Fine, but we need to link it to other artists. I might ask: Should the same artists be able to do everything at the same time, use forecycling from an art fund, a job fee from a labour fund, and then the museums for museums, etc.? What I'm saying is that we need to look at all this in the overall context before we jump into one of those new exports. Finally, I thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u96	Mr. President. My request to the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture is presented for granted and serious reasons, intolerable and substantial financial status of Iceland's University and, in fact, more universities. It is intriguing to compare it with a rather small word about the importance of school and education at the holidays and in the campaign policy lists that still fail to meet the basic school for urgent financial reforms. The same is true, as I said before, of the second university in the country. This is where I'm going to use the position of the geology that I have as part of my college brain and that I'm not even going to be able to interpret places that are now released when teachers are out of age. With the permission of a president, I read from Ólafur Ingólfsson's recent news lesson: But let's make it clear that Iceland's University has been expelled from the habit for years. And later: We have tens of millions of lives to be saved here in the geological department, and much of it is possible to cut down students' services. There are various courses to be conducted, and in some cases they will be submitted, especially in high school. Times will be reduced, field service reduced, and so forth. Ólafur says that some articles will hardly be taught just by textbooks; students will have to try things and experience themselves. That means, for example. not to teach people how to swim by giving them a book. Those words illustrate the position of the university. Ólafur also reminds us that the university has pointed out that the total budget for each student has to double in order to achieve comparable average gains in the North countries, and we all know how far we are going to pursue OECD's education. Inconsistencies with telecommunications are faced, especially outside the capital area, and particularly in real - life fields. Colleges outside the capital area fight in trays. Also, fixed university teachers face too much work. Students complain, teachers complain. Because of all of this, my inquiries come from four teams to the highest level. Ministers on further funding to the University of Iceland and to other universities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u97	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry and my answer. I believe most people are aware of the high school budget, including the University of Iceland, that after the 2008 economic collapse, as high school students grew considerably. Happily, during the past three years there have been some reversals, both due to some increase in financial resources, and to some extent, due to the reduction in the number of students. This is something we know very well. The university system has grown and grown in recent years. A large proportion of young people have simply become dependent on university wealth to let them into business. That's why it's always more and more important. I think it's undisputed that most of the people in this country agree that we must testify and that we must stick together to promote university levels, to support quality and internal structure, if to ensure that students in this country will receive comparable education and what is best done in neighboring countries. I have had the privilege of visiting the geological scene as a boy. someone on the phone asked earlier. In recent years, the Ministry of Education and Culture has been working on promoting the funding of education at the university by increasing the price of calculus in the university's calculus. We must continue that course, while keeping in mind that the goal is not really the financial goal of such things but the increased quality and quality of the university system. That's what we're supposed to do. Last year, the university's quality board finished its first cycle of quality checkout at the university. I know that the internal and external assessments in connection with the quality council have made the university very useful in the quality of life. I know that in this room there is also a knowledge that competitive funds in research and innovation have been promoted, and much of it has contributed to the university. Today, this study has a high level of healing. As evidence of this, it may even be the case. Note that two young Icelandic scientists recently received the strength each from the European research Council, only some outstanding scientists. Of course, we want to continue on the journey that we are gradually moving on to promote the university system. I believe we must also remember how to support our university, as mentioned earlier, in order to improve the quality of our teaching to the future. The education of the university will be further developed in a financial program for 2018-2021, and a financial minister will want it to document and schedule for the council no later than April 1. In many respects, that is true. A prosecuting comment on the telecommunication. In recent years, the study has increased dramatically in Icelandic universities, making it possible for students in all parts of the country to have access to a wide range of educational opportunities, such as we discussed earlier. To date, however, no assessment of how this study arrangement compares with local resistance has been made. It's a job I believe we have to do, but it's in 2017 budgets that the Education and Culture Ministry will make a more specific contribution to the quality of public education across the university. The results of this assessment will be new and will be used to support university policy policies. The colleges are, as I mentioned in fact, in reply to another inquiry earlier at this meeting, to independent institutions, to conduct the school and to teach procedures in a policy that each school places there. I suppose that's what. Foreseers know that in Iceland's University policy prior to 2016-2021, school plans to shape a whole range of educational and educational policies. to develop a teaching style, an assessment of the quality of teaching, reeducation, partial study, recording of lectures, and telecommunications. It is assumed that the school can benefit from the report I mentioned that the Ministry would submit a long-term distance study of these policies later on those important issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u98	A respectable president. During the campaign, the university case was well considered. Maybe not as well as some would like, but reasonably still. It revealed that many things were missing. A policy established by the Scientific and Technical Council was reviewed and how it was far from achieving the aims of this policy in terms of an increase of about 3% in the contribution of land production and thus the likelihood of achieving a certain level of quality in the university work. It has also been reviewed by a financial committee that the algorithm on donations for a school with a student in different subjects has not been updated in recent years because it is simply so expensive. Instead of giving good support to the foundation and structure of this class, we always take immediate solutions. [[The president calls.]] I propose to the Minister that there will be a real conference meeting that will be carried out and that we will build the foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much for these inquiries, which are quite thorough, and also the highest. Minister for the answers. What I wanted to say in connection with this discussion is that I agree with the final speaker on the importance of policy development. I don't necessarily think that this policy should depend on some particular average spending. Surely we want to reach certain goals, results, benefits, and benefits by setting that amount of money. There is not necessarily a mark between having a specific dollar and receiving something better. As we look at health standards, we see that in comparison with a number of other nations, we put less money but are far more successful. [[The president calls.]] I call on us to continue improving the quality of education, to ensure that there is money to keep up with adequate telecommunications, and thus to ensure that we also have the quality and thinking of what kind of education we are giving our students.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u100	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the captain for the discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. I cut by the highest. A minister referred to the budget of 2018,2021. I could not understand him more than that he expected a donation to be made. V.E.G. A minister may come into it in his second answer. Although I can say a little about what I say. paritaprevir I simply think that the Eygló of Harðardóttir, who spoke before me, will not be able to avoid opening the door for a considerable amount of money in the school system and including the university. There's been a long talk. We can set the policies that we want and settle over it and look at, which is all the best and the right thing to do, but it simply needs more money in there. [[The president calls.]] To gain their money, people must be willing to do so, whether by making more money or by raising taxes or by what they are, but they must exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u101	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I agree with it. A senator was ending his words. I just want to introduce what the minister mentioned on this assessment. I heard him say the assessment was 2019. I wondered why we have to wait so long. I think there's a great need to get into this right away to make sure it's okay. V.E.G. A minister also said that the expansion of money or money on the university system would be done in a financial program. Now we're dealing with financial policy for the next five years. At least. not met the requirements for which the headmasters at the university were united in doing so, i.e. They expected that they would need around 2 billion each year for the next few years. The policy we are considering today is by no means the same. I'm asking the minister in what way he thinks we can get around this, reaching the average OECD in the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u102	Mr. President. Quality, we know they're costing money. I want to thank you very much. A minister for some extent for clear answers, perhaps not always clear enough. The thing is, a lot of money has been working, not just the University of Iceland, but the whole university. It's time for some toleration that is seen in what I said and quoted Professor Ólafur Ingólfsson, it's simply impossible to go further in surgery, now it needs to be turned around. With regard to telecommunication, it's about the colleges working together on different opportunities for telecommunications. It is not that one person takes from another. New births and opportunities depend on university education, very much. We simply see it. What has happened in the pursuit of employment opportunities for a university education? The increase is primarily in jobs that require relatively little education, but university education disappears much of the country. This is a very serious situation in which the colleges are already in order to make sure that not only the university education is good and great but also that there is opportunities for employment. I think it's about time, because this was about a full view, that there will be a revised and developed national policy in university lawsuits. They're talking about unions of college, different from academic contributions, of reimbursement, etc. This will not be done without making a whole policy. [[The president calls.]] That's enough to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u103	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion here. Clearly, people and members of the council are being greatly burned by the university. It is good to be aware of this level of supervision in this hall. Let us remember, too, what is well done. I had the option of visiting the University of Iceland and listening to what our fine people say and say. In many areas of Iceland's university, it is quite impressive, and it is sufficient to mention its success in research compared to a similar university in other parts of the North countries, which I encourage members of the Parliament to study. That's where the results of our university are very good. Of course, there are difficult places in which we need to break down and make sure that we need and in many places we can do well in this regard as well as in many others. I don't know. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér said that the Council approved the budget for 2017. That was virtually consistent with the application in many areas. But I'd like to guess here, because it was actually asked by today's birthday child, the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, why we couldn't get an assessment until 2019, that I simply quoted the lyrics of the budget that show that this assessment should be won in 2019 to benefit from. into Iceland's High School strategy. I'd also like to mention that, as far as I'm concerned, the university is working in some areas to build up and coordinate, which is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u104	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. The Minister for Education and Culture on the position of the Icelandic edition. It has been pointed out to us members of the Parliament that a significant reduction has taken place in the English edition. If we aim in 2008, but the Habitat assessment of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures goes back to 2008, the crash year, and we look at the situation compared to the first six months of 2016, there has been a 48% reduction in the successful Icelandic publication of this period. There may be many reasons, including that this has been a crisis, of course, but the book is also very competitive with other forms of entertainment, whether viewed as video games or any material you can watch. But it doesn't make any difference that we in this hall are always focusing on reading, reading more, whether of children, young people, or adults. Thus, many felt that they were quick, including me, when the last government raised a value tax on books from 7% to 11%. The book publishers strongly objected to that operation, and they have challenged the members of Congress to use the value of extra taxes to be taken away from books so that they can obtain annuity tax. If we look at the situation abroad, we can form an average of 6.9% of books in Europe, 5.8% in the world. We are at the top of five when Europe is taxed on books to produce such countries as Norway, Ireland, and Britain do not tax books. There are 31 countries in the world that do not tax books. So I want to ask the highest. A minister of these statistics as well as what else he sees possible to strengthen the position of the bookbook. Today, many good things have been done by the government. I mention to form a Mass of books in Frankfurt as an excellent transnational organization in which Iceland played the role of a guest of honor in 2011, and it can be seen significant results when a number of translations are translated into Icelandic work worldwide. For example, in 2009 the number of artists was increasing and, of course, is extremely important to writers. It has been founded on an independent scholarly profession that is also important, but it is certainly possible to increase significantly. There are, therefore, various ways to support a publication. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his vision of those matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u105	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's a great matter of my heart, Icelandic, and I'd like to cooperate with it. A senator for improvements in that material to be made in Icelandic language. Hv. A senator first asks about the merit tax, if I'm going to force myself to get paid on books. To answer the simple picture, the tax issues, including issues of value tax, are on the table of financial and economic ministers, and therefore not on the authority of education Ministers to do anything directly in such a way as this. A senator knows. Here was a discussion on the value of a tax from a variety of other products, where the minister of finance was providing answers. My opinion is that the value tax on books is too high. I will address this issue with my colleague at the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, but I am quite aware that a reduction in the value tax may be difficult to deal with. To me, it's about the native tongue, this scarred region we're in the world's society, 330 you're. a people. We have been entrusted with the desirable things of an Icelandic tongue. We must work hard to take good care of them. I think we can do this in a number of ways, not just by moving tax steps, but by other factors that I might do a little below. My mind is to promote Icelandic and Icelandic editions is an unbreakable part of that assignment. It has not been long before to review these issues during the month that I have been with this group, but it is still working at the Ministry to examine the issues of the publication in the country and in cooperation with the Icelandic bookmakers. I've already had a good meeting with Icelandic bookmakers' partner recently. There we crossed the situation, and it is extremely serious, and as shown in the case of the lead lady, a bookkeeper has drawn very close to collapse. I'd like to take a look at this matter in a larger context. Among the things I've discussed and discussed with the bookmakers and want to be considered is what can be done in the financial and organizational frameworks that we have today and whether we can in some way make better use of the funds we have of, though, of playing or changing order. Similarly, we need to examine the way we publish our study material, but the Kingdom is very much the way people know it. That inspection is in preparation. This is in line with the government's declaration of policy, which states that the State is increasing the publication of study material to its own publishers, who play an important cultural role in a wide variety of publishing activities. In fact, there is in a literature policy that the Fégour of bookmakers have mentioned. It is a very clear requirement for the bookmakers to work together with the National Institute of Education, with public publishing companies, and to make serious efforts to ensure that the State's monopolitanization of the publishing of textbooks for Iceland's elementary school market, as reported in their own literary policy. They have taken a very ambitious course in 13 teams, which includes various measures. We used to go through it at the meeting I quoted earlier. I expect them to come back to me with some ideas I wished they would try to put in their words. What examples should be considered? They've looked very hard on Norway. Our brothers there have done a very pleasant work in this regard. I think we can look back on the role models. It contains, for example, to the value of a fixed purchase contract in which the Norwegian government commits to buy directly from publishers certain materials. It is a contract between bookmakers and colporteurs, which is regularly replaced by government access. Today, there is no agreement between them, which is fundamental when we have 40 layers, and there is one supply layer, and the market market position is similar to that. [[The president calls.]] So there are many things involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u106	A respectable president. Thank you for the perfunctory inquiry and the highest. Minister of staff answers. There were positive things, but only hairy ones. I personally believe that the answer to this is not necessarily a monopoly on the publication of study books. I think it's a little more complicated than that. Truth is, I was a little surprised at the time of the time. The government decided to raise the money tax on books and food. It seemed to me that it was a little strangely preconceived. But it's good to hear that. A minister is a fighter in these matters now, for the colporteur had quite drawn together in 2014 when this was done. V.E.G. A minister points to the secretary of finance and to the court. Yes, it is true. But I didn't hear any better than that. The minister of finance proclaimed his vision of a single value of taxation level, approximately 18%. [[The president calls.]] That means an increase in credit taxation for books. Of course, the Supreme Court has these issues. Secretary of the budget, but I'm not the highest. Well, the Minister of Education says that the government has only one person more things, and if he's convening with the opposition, maybe we can help him get these issues to work. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for serving this fine and excellent case. Minister for participating in the discussion. Me and the Icelanders have thought we were a cultural and book people over the years. We have found the book practical in a way that most of us do today, probably over several centuries, on paper. Now, new technologies have been advanced. Young people often choose electronic books. I'd like to let me ask you the highest. Minister if he will promote the use of electronic editions. We have been rather late, Icelanders, in publishing Icelandic books electronically, perhaps later than many other nations, since we are a small language group, but the tongue's protection is important to us. [[The president calls.]] Besides, this is a costly point, I don't think we need to cut down fewer forests to publish electronic books.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u108	The Honorable President. I'm really happy to hear that. A minister of education is interested in enforcing many of the suggestions that have been passed by the association of the bookmakers. Piratar and I have had a similar meeting and can agree with many of the points presented, as suggestions for reforming, for it is only so difficult to publish books in a land where so few people speak their tongue. But as we have discussed, there is one source of this that I feel very urgent about and that is a monopoly on the publication of electronic books, which is not available to everyone. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what the Ministry intends to do about the version of electrical books. [[The president calls.]] And then I just want to encourage the highest. Minister to act.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u109	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers and what to do. Councilmen here have spoken. V.E.G. A minister said that although he did not handle a valuable tax issue, he would want to apply himself to the fact that books actually do not carry a merit tax. I welcome that statement. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppér of the highest. The minister of finance spoke in a way today that he preferred to pursue one of the values of taxes, which I do not consider good news for publication. Of course, these are huge numbers we see, 48% recession in eight years. It's a massive contraction. It reminds us of, like the highest. A minister rightly said that we live in a small language area. 330,000 people. It's gonna cost you. It costs to maintain the language here. We have a national budget where all expenses are to be stored within the economy. We have that course from the highest. Secretary of the budget that it should be just one level of credit and that it is not an exception. Then there's only two ways you can see. If the product is not to be passed on by tax, an increase in official support is needed. We have to watch if we're looking at the situation as it is now, that it's going to be through an increase in the role of the artists, a higher level of newly developed, an increased support for translation, i.e. If we do not want the tax environment to be as practical as possible, we need to look into the need for the public to get more involved. Because it costs to speak English. And part of speaking Icelandic is not just that we can talk to computers, as we have talked a lot about, and maybe we'll talk more about it at the highest. Ministers, also believe that new material is being prepared in Icelandic. That is a key factor, especially for young people. For all age groups, but especially for young ones, it is important that they receive books in Icelandic that take place in their society and in their world. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. Ministers also work with us and hope that we will expect some action plan from him in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u110	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. In addition to what I previously mentioned about this position in Icelandic language, our native tongue, is a project that has to do with language technology, which is extremely important. All members of the community who care about this, our language, have declared themselves ready to do it. In some areas, a person is cleaning up and putting on a plate, as has often been said, with strong oaths to trust in his mother tongue. That's fine. It is in no way my thinking is one example, changing the edition of study books, making all of this work. That's a long road away. This is one of the examples that the bookmakers in the country have long held stiff, and I'm sure I'll take a look at it. They simply happen to agree with the priorities of the government covenant. It is true that the language needs to be maintained. It costs to sustain the land. It is a privilege, however, to live in Iceland. It is also a privilege to communicate and to create in English. It is our duty to protect it. If you're talking about raising a little more worth tax on this operation, the publishing, I agree with you. The apologetic idea that we will have to meet it in some way. I think we're totally at the limit of what we're doing today. It's a special task to deal with, if we go to the task of simplifying the value tax system, which I think is actually long time. [[The president calls.]] But then we have to face the effects in some other way if this is to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u111	Mr. President. In terms of transport, there are not many words that need to be said about the problems we face during the last term. It is unique in history that the government did not have an entire perfect period of exposure to one consistent policy of transportation until the end of the election was announced. Sadly, there is still uncertainty in these areas, for despite the fact that a successful budget for the seminar was faced with a high level of money. But a short time later, a financial bill was presented by the Supreme Court. Present prime minister, then secretary of finance, who ignored this transport program. The General tried to correct or minimize the damage by means of additional funds into the budget of December, but there are still some discrepancies. The question arises: How should this matter be handled? To this end, my questions are addressed to the highest level. Minister. Most intimate, and first of all, ask yourself: " Do not be anxious at all. A secretary of transportation and the current government uses to increase the budget for road construction so that transportation can be carried out without losing it? If you don't, and if you don't, you're going to go to the top. A minister gives the General a new revised transport strategy what concerns the road to 2017 so that it will again be carried out under the General Assembly on how these funds will be set out? If it is not done or not done, how should this be done? What legal or administrative authority, then, would a minister want to base his choice on the responsibilities that are being made and that do not receive it? It cannot be that the Minister's mental powers are affected, although there is a mismanagement between the budget and the transport strategy, changing the priorities adopted by the General Assembly and acting in accordance with transport laws and road laws. It is different that, however, when governments have financial contributions that increase funding so that new projects have come in, it has been permitted to criticize them. But when this is the case, it cannot be that some projects put first in the Council will be cut down on the troll, while others will have complete success. As we traveled through the district of the Northeast, we heard members of the North-eastern District of the United States on the grandest of the newest projects and almost one in the north, the Fallifos Road, would be completely spedededed out, performed up to 800 million. K. Based on transport programmes, at the same time as other projects in other parts of the country, e.g. It's almost the highest. Ministers should be fully established. At the highest level, there is nothing like that. Ministers, although less money is on budget than is in a transport program to overturn the order of operations decided by the General. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the questions are clear: Will a new proposal come from a minister? [[The president calls.]] If not, how will he handle the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u112	A respectable president. In accordance with the transport programme, the secretary shall propose a proposal for the resolution of a transport programme that should be targeted for all articles of transportation for the next 12 years every four years. However, the proposal for a new transport program 2015-226 was proposed for promotion at the General Assembly. A fall. A four-year schedule should be part of and within the framework of a 12-year transport programme. This should be reviewed every two years. The plan adopted at the General Assembly of October, October 12, includes 2015 ◯2018. As mentioned in the question, there is a real need for financial resources to be in line with what is presented in a transport program. However, this is not a new situation, and plans have always been set out according to the main objective of transport and the importance of the projects considered by Vega and the Ministry. It also takes into account the direction given by a legal committee in its committee. This is the way it was done now and in all of this priorities are especially seen in the importance of security, traffic security. Asking whether the Council's approval for a change in the current transport programme for administrative authority clearance will be sought to select projects that will be established in 2017 and not. It will only be carried out on a project that the Council has approved in the current transport programme but, of course, it is limited to the funds it has been funded. As I said before, we've been doing this job at the Ministry in recent days. Especially do we look to security there. Because Kappus Road was specifically mentioned here, there are plans to be carried out on Hapfund Road about 350 million, if I remember correctly, this year. There are many important challenges to living, and, of course, general dissatisfaction is worldwide with the expectation of a transport program in October. cannot have been filled with funds for the budget. But I remind you that the budget was available in the vast peace of all classes. I don't think it can be written on the financial secretary's account. It was built on a broader foundation, as we all know. Whether we intend to contribute to the budgets of the Vega fund to the budget, funds for 2016 were submitted on the basis of budget No. 88/1997. Starting in 2017, budgets will be taken into account on the basis of a new law of No. 123/2015, public financial matters. It stipulates a minister's permission to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to handle temporary, unforeseen and inevitable expenses within the budget, as these cannot be managed with other measures. This refers to a warrant for dissuades within a legal class within a year to react to the unexpected. The objective of this new procedure is to reduce the scope of budgetary laws and to bring the responsibility to counsel and encourage them to use effective financial management in their sectors and language groups. In the above, it can be seen that projects on a transport program do not depend on conditions for increased financial resources. Considering this, I can't expect my jobs to be expected that financial aid will be specifically looked at. I think there may be another approach to that situation if there should be an increase in the budget for transport, which is certainly a great need for this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u113	Mr. President. It's different before I've been scared, I'm gonna have to tell you. He's the meekest. Minister. I can now tell him that he is expected to be supported by more of the council members in changing the transport program, i.e. ... tofinishit. But I have to say that in view of what was said here on the budget in December to the highest. A minister knows well that she had a particular sign. She was with them at the same time. That it was funded, don't forget it. Taking 170 million off the road to put on Kappreos Road is a disgrace. And the fact that a minister is going to make certain decisions here on his own cannot, of course, be acceptable. For putting something in cash, I don't know better than to the highest. The social and equality minister is telling us about the anticipated housing position that he intends to finance it with additional financial resources. It is anticipated that the infrastructure is in pieces. We know this well in transportation, and the Allied agreed to this plan because it was the lowest thing we could do, at least. [[The president calls.]] So I'm going to ask the minister again if he doesn't think it's possible to finance this additional transport program. [[The president calls.]] Let me remind you that Kappus Road was inside an agreement that I hear the Minister is planning to betray. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u114	A respectable president. I must declare my disappointments to the highest degree. Ministers do not intend to take advantage of the much knowledge and ability within their grasp. Generalist and e.g. Yeah. The environment and transport committee I'm in. V.E.G. One minister says that during the past few days, they were working on their priorities and on safety issues and more. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee would have gladly participated in that work with the Minister, so I declare that we have not been asked to assist. This is the second time today as the highest. In fact, a minister points to the payment of a budget and takes responsibility for the transportation program adopted here during the last days of the council. I don't know any better than that. Ministers have participated in this process of transportation, and we'll add it, and we'll even vote with it, if I remember correctly. The budget was adopted by 27 votes. V.E.G. Minister is one of those who paid them their vote. V.E.G. So a minister accepted the added compensation at last assembly. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister so accepted the law. That's what I did to not shoot, neither.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u115	A respectable president. Money was not approved. They just got through. Now it is that the work programme ideas were exactly zero. Yet, the proposed management board over 20 billion over a financial program did not leave much behind. The management board did not fulfill the laws adopted by the General for transport programmes. She did not exactly finance any of this and would place the responsibility for it completely to a new council that had nothing to do with it. After spending 20 billion more on some more than one project. This confusion is totally written on those who handled the budget and those who agreed on it, not on the others who didn't accept the law, because there was no other choice but minimal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u116	Mr. President. A few days ago, the highest was spoken. Minister for transport as if it were the most sacred of all documents. Now he carries a budget that was approved under a very strange situation. It is part of the matter of a minister's authority limit and of whether he can use natural - night decisions to remove any crumbs he wants. It is unscrupulous to plan for a new venture through money that was to go to other things in the same district.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u117	V.E.G. President. On our journey why. During the last district of last week, we were given what we had to do with what we had been able to do. Councilmen report that money that had been estimated to have taken over a certain road in the district was no longer there. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not the most advanced transport programme. the local secretary of state is in force regarding the distribution of funding from a minister now and whether there is still earmarked funds for, for example. No. 60, that's it, as it's been in the past few years, or if the funding has been moved anywhere else. It is very important that we do what is right. The members of Parliament are informed of what future projects are to be carried out, and it is important to have it before the Council of the First.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u118	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry and answers to the highest degree. We need to say it's like it's missing the passion in the highest. Minister for his case. We have all listened to inspired counsel from the beginning. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, but it seems he has somehow disappeared to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers and apparently not very interested in fighting for their groups, despite the fact that this is a clear declaration of support to the minister that we are ready to take that action. But the reason I come up here is even to encourage the minister not to look at us least in the capital area. Today's day illustrates how important it is to consider the transport issues in the capital area. People have been saying I think I'm going home for an hour and a half. We know how difficult the transportation has been. I certainly hope that a minister will again find the power and passion that have so often characterized his work, and he will begin to take action for his own business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u119	Mr. President. It's a little special for everyone to ask for old Jón after he gets to the top. Minister Jón Gunnarsson has become the secretary of transportation. But I'd like to agree with others who have spoken that there is no point in the process of transportation. During a week's election, we members of the Parliament learned that there is great anger over knowing nothing about the construction of their territory. It's enough work. I agree with what. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir on 60 Westfjords, to know something about that project. I'd also like to point out on port reforms and the Refundation Fund that local communities have assumed in their budget to produce and take away, and then it turns out that there is no meaningful basis for this sect. There were 700 million worldwide who went down to 200 million. [[The president calls.]] This is unacceptable work, and it's the highest. Then a minister should linger on setting priorities according to his own preferences; nor should it be acceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u120	Mr. President. Answers to the highest. I was very disappointed by a minister. All right. If the highest. The minister is completely focused, and he has become a fugitive, and he no longer has any power to try to fight for more money in this group, depending on the question of how to handle the situation. That's where Ministers will totally fail the test. There is no answer to say that there will be only money left on transport projects. Thank you so much. We hardly thought that a minister would start taking this cheap sum and take in some entirely new assignment. The issue is how to choose between the two factors, e.g. The largest new projects established by the General. Consider an example. By the way, you're supposed to be 800 million. K., a major project that will take over a longer period of time. During a misdirected road meet with Chysuvík Road and Cheflavík Road, 1,000 million were expected. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How's the top? Ministers to justify this if it is found correctly that one of the projects has gone out, while the other is allowed to continue full - time? On what basis is this done? What governmental authority is it done? It is clear in both the laws on transport plans and road planning that they are based on a peaceful strategy designed to break up individual projects. It is on both road and transportation laws. As far as I'm concerned, the only possibility of the Minister is if he's not going to run a new order under the Council to bring such large sums down evenly, he doesn't interrupt the program, does not interfere with what the General Assembly had decided. This means that the projects will be released later in the year or that the final stages will be reduced in this year. But the highest. A minister has no authority to throw out one very large new venture that he is not interested in but take others and let them have full success. The General has not delivered any such authority to the Commission. That's for damn sure. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, a minister must either, bring in a new proposal, or accept having this objective by moving the coins evenly down so that they can fit in as the budget. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u121	A respectable president. Here is where our problem takes place. Here we go. Councilmen from the Northeast standard, huh? Councilmen of the Northwestern district, huh? Senators of the Southwestern District, capital area, and all of them say in chorus: Well, the minister can't seem to order anything like this because he didn't put enough money in my home. Of course, that's what this discussion is about. [[Up front.]] 14 billion would have been needed to create a transportation plan. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] We got over 4 billion, 4.5 billion. [[Up front.]] It's nearly 10 billion short. [[For example, consider: How are you going to switch?]] We've been reviewing how it will be distributed. I hear they criticize that we've set up a Keyhole meet with a Smokey Lane, which is generally recognized as one of the most dangerous intersections in the country, where one of the biggest traffic passes. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon prefers that we do all of this so that we do nothing. We start as many places as possible, but we don't finish anything. Let's just make it all a little finished here and there. No, that is not the way it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u122	Why don't you try and answer...?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u123	This is not to say that it is giving up in this situation, so I have developed ideas about how we can prepare much more money to take on new ones than we have seen. [[Up front.]] I don't know if that's going to work, but I'm at least building a job to make that option on the table. The protocol is in effect and we're setting priorities within it. It's not true that it was defined in the budget bill that Kappus Road should be completed, but it's been working for 350 million this year. Compared with what we have to play, 350 million are enormous. [[The president calls.]] There is great dissatisfaction everywhere. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] We are everywhere with projects that, like our whole transportation system, stand off the board on a large scale of improvements. [[The president calls.]] It applies to all parts of the country. It is natural for people to see it a little with their glasses, each for their own districts. [[Up front.]] Yet, we face a problem. [[The president calls.]] Let us consider how we can unite in creating a system that may bring in a far greater effort, a new effort than we have seen in recent years. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u124	President wants to direct it to what? Councilmen and the highest. Minister to observe deadlines. Today's record is, I think, 40 seconds past. It's a bit much. If people at home are getting tired, understandably tired, they should be groping at their ears, they are responsible for more than 15 seconds in speaking, then the cheer keeps on growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u125	Mr. President. I will not continue to discuss this matter. But this is not the way to divorce it. This is my request by the president's accepting my request for a discussion outside of the program on how this case will be handled, as it were, in 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u126	It will be delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u127	Mr. President. I'd like to have a conversation with the minister, but I'd like to start by saying that the day after I sent the inquiry in, the correct package of the budget changed the picture a little. I'm going to say, however, that when conventions were signed, it was clear to everyone that for such agreements to be handled properly, it would have to be a significant increase in budget. 12th degree. This is a strictly agreed agreement, i.e. by permission of the President: It's a commitment between partners to work on raising the budget for the contract during the contract period. Not to be overlooked is the fact that a large field of consultation with the local people is involved in matters as well as professional and objective assessments, including from a build up fund, where there are all the most appropriate requirements, help with candidates, and that there is an equality, and most important, a time guard is involved in achieving the aim of the application programmes for the focus products they have set for themselves. Since the beginning of the country, all member organisations have emphasized that an application program was designed for a key role, and this is why funding would have to be increased. The local representatives have repeatedly discussed this, including those of us who are on a budget board, as well as when we members of the Parliament have considered the districts. In a resolution to council members on November 9, 2015, from these sources, we read: In recent years, both the Commission and national parts of the network have been launched to achieve the aims of integration and to improve cooperation with the application programme. But if such goals are to be achieved, action must follow words. The current budget for application programmes is not sufficient to set up a significant task in innovation, culture, and employment and rural development. National Associations challenge the government's generalists and ministers to protect this fundamental interest in the country by ensuring the budget promised at the beginning of this tour. It has been repeated on all meetings of the Board of Directors and Councilmen and the conference members. Now it is assumed that there is no increase in the schedule for the next five years despite the importance of budgeting. Protocols of the country are now receiving 402.5 billion. K. in 2017 budgets, and got 208.5 million. K. in 2016's budget. Based schedule received 43.6 million. K. ... but now it's 578.6 billion. K. This shows that the entire contract period remains stable for the next five years. I have to ask the highest. Minister: In view of a considerable increase in market planning, is the plan to strike a number of flights in one strike and to take some money from the local community, which is, of course, intended to finance various areas, including the fiber - optic industry and other things? If so, why don't they just put it right into the parish plans? It appears that the application contracts are a large package around a small package. You have a feeling that these parts of the country get with this tiny little duet because they don't have a mind to do with it. [[The president calls.]] And if parish plans are to be the real capitalization of motion for the scattered settlements, we must add that many projects are already in place and wait for support. And other tasks cannot be started while no more is being given.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u128	A respectable president. In February 2015, pricing was established in a contract with the national community, and they agree on contracts until the end of 2019. There have been significant increases since the contracts were completed in 2015, but during the signing of the contract, the government funds went out at 550.7 million. K. That's not consistent with the numbers I've been informed about and as much as possible. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen has. I don't know what's going on, but these are the numbers I've been given to be involved in the national parishion Programme. In 2016 the government's contribution increased by over 14.5%, costing 630.7 million. K. This year the budget will be further increased, by less than 15.9%, to a value of 730.7 million. K. It is important to note that in the production of budgets, parish contracts are funded on two budgets and on more than one budget. That might explain the difference. Protocols are an important factor in achieving the core objectives of the rural development programme to equalize the opportunities for all the population to work, services, equal standard of living and contribute to sustainable development throughout the country. The national programme shall recommend regional emphasis on the objectives of based planning, planning, cultural policies, and the following events of other public policies. The aim of the agreement is to promote a positive social development, to increase the competitiveness of each part of the country and the country as a whole. Their aim is also to simplify the communication between state and rural society and to ensure transparency of the distribution and management of public funds. Protocols are divided into collections that are competitive funds in each part of the country, except for the capital area, and focus on projects that are specific in each part of the country. They can touch various aspects of the building up of the entire area and can be involved in this, including, a source of information. Why don't you mention advice and effort? During 2015, a total of 1,120 applications were included in the entire seven building funds. The total volume of applications was over 1.6 billion. A total of 606 projects were supported, a total of 4,57 million. K. By arrangement of distribution, there is a minimum of the same amount as that given the strength, so it can be estimated that some 1 billion have been employed for the requested projects. The focus project on the whole country was 39, and their overall contribution to the program was less than 222 billion. K. A member of the Board of Directors of Regional Affairs has a role in monitoring and counselling against application agreements. The group is appointed specialists from all EU advisory and executive directors. The audience is from the local part of a rural society and a graffiti. The function of the control team is one of the factors involved. to improve and improve coordination within the Council of Management for community-based issues and ensure effective consultation with the unit's administration level. The control team is working to get the Ministry to work better together and to act as a team in the community. Based on the definition of the management group, all subjects that influence quality of life and the competitiveness of part of the country, such as home, employment, and innovation, are involved. It is about the growth of society, social security, employment, education, culture, welfare, transportation, and communication. An important factor in the operating group's activities is the coordination of recruitment policies that involve community policy and that provide advice for the government in regional matters. A respectable president. I don't think there's anything to say but that there's a lot of emphasis on promoting this aspect, national parish plans. I think it's a real pleasure. It has in itself been a pleasure to observe the level of parapolitic solidarity in this issue that was in its time of political controversy. Today, I think we all agree on, no matter where we stand, that this is the right course to make the most of the money we have to spend on the scattered settlements. The experience of this project has been very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u129	Mr. President. I just want to get involved in this discussion. National stock plans are very important to the region, but they need to be fully financed. It'll take a lot more money if it's meant to be useful. With members of the Parliament, payment from a building fund was held at a district week. There were a lot more applications than could be applied and a lot more money needed than could be provided. About 70 million were available in each part of the country. But I would also like to point out that local authorities have worked hard to investigate and offer suggestions. This was a Western Committee appointed for the last term on community and employment development in that area. There local government officials and others worked hard on a variety of proposals they now ask themselves, " Is there just somewhere in a drawer or what to do with this? ' Should local government and others fool themselves by making a great deal of effort to offer suggestions if it is not the meaning of the budget to follow it in any way? [[The president calls.]] All we have to do is think about what we're doing and not call for something if it's not to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u130	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I must now say, I found them rather full of substance. The objective and purpose of the parish plans that I am well aware of were considered. And as for the absolute differences, I have numbers from the financial body, which is updated and new. There, these numbers match, i.e. The deal. And so to say here, Southland's parish program is 64.2 million from 2016-2019, an Eastern application plan with 50.7 million. A.K., including the season. That's a very small amount of money. This is the application contracts. It's a little too small. In view of the high importance of the budget bill on this and on how this is being carried out and the satisfaction it has made, you cannot help but agree with them in your rural communities who have criticized that it is all too low, as I read earlier. This is by no means sufficient to cover the tasks that are there. I ask the minister again where he thinks he's the role of parishions in community affairs at all, because once we've considered the district, a man of the missions that have been advanced through a parish plan, it's very important. I have also criticized that some cases go through a program that I thought should be somewhere else, e.g. Like a suspension, I can think of it. It was financed by a parish program while it was not done in the Thorst Sea and so forth. Everyone's trying to make some position. Although parish plans are not the beginning and end of everything, we also need to be careful to finance the country's territory, whatever its name, not all of us are expected to go through an application schedule, this is still an important tool that all, across the country, are pleased. [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that way in line with the emphasis placed on the bill how little you put in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u131	A respectable president. I'm sorry if it happened. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir thinks my answer is rather full of meaning. I just traced this on my donations and answered the question: 'Why were nation's parish budgets reduced from year to year to budget for 2017, and what is the position of the minister on their role in rural matters?' I think I followed it well, unless I showed that in the numbers I went over, my donations have not dropped at all, they have gone up. There's some misunderstanding in these numbers between me and what I'm talking about. Senator. [[Up front.]] I think there may be something here, that to mention, in the process of budget making, there's a budget for application contracts on the budgets of two schemes and on more than one budget. So we may need to take a closer look. But I can totally agree, as in so many cases, that there is a need for more capital in this field. Here comes the priorities we have the limit to the budget we have. We were going over the transport conditions earlier. The missions are very demanding. I agree with it. A senator then said that the schedule was not the beginning and end of everything. I think it is important for us to look to the opportunities the country can have in other areas to strengthen and strengthen its position. I often quote a synonym that was approved on a job board less than a year ago, which was about newinvestment in Icelandic employment into the long future and how we saw the development of professional life. There we agreed on how we would see that image, the members of every group there. I think that's where we've realized that there's a lot of opportunities for the country. [[The president calls.]] However, for them to become reality, the infrastructure needs to be strengthened, especially by the network of electricity, transportation, and communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u132	A respectable president. It was reported on the website of the post - communications agency on January 26, 2000. that there would be an increase in the incidence of systemic radiological disorders in this country. A table published in this report shows that this has occurred in the last two years. Since the radiological system is a very important component of communication between individuals and also to regulate several important systems of management and communication, such as aviation, a wide variety of aviational monitoring, warning and preaching to create in the health system and during natural years, problems with radiological systems can have very serious consequences. The development of this variability in radiological systems is disturbing and includes certain safety failures. So I think it's right to ask a minister how he thinks they should react to such disturbances in the general radiological systems of the country and the following known security failures. The second question points to the development of network connections and communications systems here on the country, so the design of fiber optics has been under way and must conclude that there will be a fundamental factor in Internet connection and telecommunication here in the anticipated future. However, if the plans of foreign major companies are to be followed, there may be a possibility that within a few years, a satellite contact might be used. In this way, it is intriguing to have a secretary's opinion of this or information about the development of satellite technology in a specific way on the part of the government of the United States. Also, I ask how best to secure the communications security of the Icelanders within the country and with the outside world. What is the highest significance. Minister to possess these communication devices and transport systems in this regard? So here are two questions, on the one hand, regarding how to deal with the problems of the radio systems in particular for safety reasons, and on the development of network connections and communications systems with regard to new technologies and possible satellite networks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u133	A respectable president. I appreciate those questions. It is true that there has been an increased interference in our radiators. For example, in the bill for the change in comms, which was recently introduced to the Ministry Web site. discussed changes in annual charges for use in the years. It tells us that making available to the Post and Communication Agency for these expenditures is intended to cover the costs of interference activities in view of the marked increase in communication and in the coming years due to an increase in the rate of elimination. However, the best way to reduce the risk or risk of interference is to increase the educational programme on import of illegal devices, i.e. Non-CE-marked devices and instruction on the proper installation of a return address. In this regard, we can assume that a recent directive has been issued for the certification of wireless transmissions No. 214/53 to install Icelandic law. It expects control authority to have fines if equipment does not meet the requirements of established technology that can lead to communication interference. This is a parking ticket that would focus primarily on the sale and importers of a wireless delivery system. This directive is aimed at implementing the fall council. At the same time, it is considered to alter communications in such a way that the post-communication agency has a general parking ticket to the agencies in which telecommunications systems are operating. In particular, in the event of a critical offense, a measure of such fines may be considered. It must be remembered that communication disorders do not only trigger important communications such as flying and emergency communications, but they can also take a lot of time and cost to identify and locate the disturbances. How do we visualize the development of national networks and communication systems with regard to technology such as Internet connections and satellites, and what is our view of ownership of such systems with regard to communication security? Network connections through satellite new standards in areas where there is no possibility of offering services in other communications systems, e.g. Strategic services are generally very expensive and do not offer quality services, speed and response times used for users. Therefore, it is not anticipated that network connections via satellites will be a general alternative to the spread of national network connections. For example, the telecommunication Fund will transfer 10 of the last homes of a satellite link to another network model for the summer 2017. Most of such homes were about 50 in 2010, but they have declined steadily, especially by the development of increased spread of the net on market grounds, especially 3G, but also by specific measures. However, satellite networks will continue to be used to establish communication in marine areas. With regard to the team of communications security concerns us, it is our view that there will continue to be a powerful communication network in this country. However, it may be wondered whether such a system needs to be partly or entirely owned by the government. However, it must be kept in mind that this is a public service that is now largely funded by the public. However, the present emergency exchange system TETRA, operated by the Emergency Line, does not possess high - speed transport properties. During the future development of security and emergency communications systems, increasing speed, high speed, access capacity, and looking at the rest of the North countries in that direction have been observed. It can be expected that there will be the same trend here. The Ministry has requested that the Agency investigate the potential for determining a specific frequency range for high-rate access to security, whether by continuing development of the TETRA system or by other technology. The satellite network connections are the only option to provide network connections on the northern ships' trails outside regions of land. The satellites orbiting the orbital orbits depend on earth's shape that they do not cover the area north of 72 degrees. It is therefore important that Iceland, along with other countries in the Arctic Council, use more polar satellites to orbit the earth. This is especially important because of safety concerns, as a result of increased shipping throughout these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker for raising an important subject that has to do with society's basic infrastructure. Because it's the highest. A minister named the TETRA system is a fine example of how serious the consequences are if these systems fail. They had to be replaced on one board with all the TETRA positions in the country because they were being shut down and not the likely security sharer. The news currently received from the Post and Communication Department in January also stated that there is mainly a lack of resources and equipment that stood by the Agency for cleaning the emergency department, which is particularly affecting the country. I'd like to ask the minister: Will he take special action? Does he have a plan to create a part of a communication program that was valid in 2011-2014 but there is no new plan? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u135	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the minister about a different technology that could be used for network distribution, e.g. Super Wi-Fi, who uses a frequency lower than the television frequency for network connections and is much more advanced than existing wireless technology, and whether any technology other than a satellite has been examined to connect in remote, or even whole, cities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u136	A respectable president. I'm going to ask the minister, since he was talking about shutting off the commuting system in Iceland, if it was possible to talk about the standards of fishing vessels where people don't have equipment that has double-lighted channels, and as a result, they're not listening to the appropriate emergency circuits at the same time they're sinking around them. Since these laws are about to be revised, it would be most interesting that they would at least be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u137	A respectable president. I thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for his answers. I feel a little bit like I'm the man who's fighting the color TV because I'm reminding you that it's not a black, white TV all over the place, just like it was here a few decades ago when the talk was the top point. I simply want less of the highest. A minister on, we had a place to say this in the daytime, that it is, unfortunately, not that everyone has access to the Internet today. In the bill as the highest. The secretary will request the next month, according to the Government Constitution, on noncommunications and production of TSM protocols, by permission of the President: The rule accepts the importance of Internet access for the citizens of a free and technological society. This should be kept in mind, and perhaps especially when it comes to building the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u138	President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for good answers and what to do. Parliamentaries for participating in the discussion. I believe this little inquiry here should be triggered by the highest level. A minister to take this class to an even more targeted position in the Ministry for Security, but rather as well as the role in the provision of public funds and the importance of systematic development, not being subjected to the heel for what is new and what is important, etc. Rather, it is done in an orderly way. Here are some aspects of these matters. I became aware of this as a member of the committee at night. In fact, the Environment and Transport Committee was responsible for the repeated development of the Porta Parliament before the Ministry. I expected that the reminder that was sustained during the last term would have resulted in the development of the telecommunications department, as it were, to this factor. I don't deny that I'm a bit thinking about answers from the highest level. Minister for security exchange. I love to stress education in general, but in this type of security interest, you are naturally concerned that there is no more powerful plan B than the highest. The minister went over here. But I expect this inquiry and the participation in it today to be at the highest level. Ministers are increasingly directing their view to this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-33.u139	A respectable president. I can totally agree that there is good reason for taking this party to serious conclusions. There are technological advances in this field, which all ordinary people have only very hard to keep track of and cover. That's where we have to rely on experts. That's why I can't really talk to myself about it like that. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson's bear was referring to some Super Wi-Fi earlier. I have to refer to someone who knows this better than I do. Of course, it is true. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Guðmundsson here tells the alarm on channel 16 or the emergency channel that this has changed, and this is a concern. This has changed with other improved communications that we have, and technology has so rapidly advanced in this area. I was in the rescue or emergency sector for years. I remember ever since we were walking through mountains and floundering with some CB station that didn't get in until you got somewhere on the Ark. Then, the accident - prevention club built a highly potent VHF emergency system with retries all over the country. That system still exists and is maintained, but there was a huge change in the entire environment when TETRA stations arrived. It was, of course, leading this wiretap that came up, a technical problem that was solved and resolved. I'm sure we'll see a lot of evolution. This, of course, will come into play. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé said earlier about the connections and access to the Internet, where we are watching a national revolution during this season. We now have the resources now, based on our plans, the Internet development of the country where more than 99% of all households in the country will be directly linked to high - speed grids. [[The president calls.]]
