ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u1	At a meeting of the welfare committee earlier today, Hildur Sverrisdóttir was elected second vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u2	A respectable president. It caught my attention and many more here yesterday that two of the members of the board did not participate in special discussions. Of course, there is something special, especially in view of the fact that today's program has no case from the government, so the voice of these classes does not hear them here, does not participate in the democratic speech. You wonder if these are the new politics proclaimed by these two groups. I wanted to ask the highest. A president whether there were many precedents and whether a president could take such a thing together and inform us in a conquistancy. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. A president who reports the latest in the media. A sea emissary has been involved in the prefecting of seamen and even contacting the President to call the council together on the weekend or on Monday, which was free whether it was. We are aware that such a bill existed and that it was waved in the face of a debate. [[The president calls.]] So I think it would be necessary for the U.S. Senate to know if it was right to bring the council together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u3	A respectable president. I feel like what I'm doing. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson to make a special statement yesterday because we have an unusual number of new members of the General Assembly for this time, and we have all come here for Congress with the promise to improve Congress, to improve the discussions at the General Assembly, to expand our discussion, to increase confidence between government and government positions, etc. It's not a good message, Mr. President, when it happens when special discussions over macropolitic matters are held that two political groups pass. I'd like to ask a respectable president to record it at a meeting of the council classes. I don't think there's a good reason, because I don't think this is going to be a good idea for this new term. I expect this to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u4	A respectable president. I've got to say something with two o'clock. Councilmen who have come here before me and are simply complaining that the other two members of the board have not been able to participate in special discussions yesterday. The special discussion protected the submission of reports at the highest level. The prime minister decided not to publish until late in the afternoon. Of course it would have been perfect, it would have been very good for the politicians over their heads, to get answers from these groups on the position to report the highest. Prime Minister, former of the highest. Secretary of finance. I think they owe the answer to the voters, that they owe it to the democracy. I am very sorry that these two members of Congress have not participated in the discussions because it has been used, even among small members of Congress, to participate in special discussions, though at times difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u5	Madam President. She was the loud silence last night in a special discussion when it came. Senators Birt had a future, and the restoration was not involved. It didn't go unnoticed. Of course, we wondered what message was being sent. Just sent the highest. The prime minister's message? Maybe it's the most likely one. But another matter is, What is the purpose and purpose of special discussions here at the Council? Is it not reasonable to assume that this will be the case in special discussions with the voice of all members of Congress, viewpoints, and emphasis? Might happen, Madam President, that today in the special discussions there was a why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir with the highest. The Anti-Second Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister? Could that happen? Would it be proper for members of Congress to decide only when and when they will be involved in special discussions?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u6	President. Last night, I used to say I was talking to the prime minister and also to the other party members. I could repeat my questions here, and people could simply ignore themselves and express themselves on this subject. I was just looking forward to hearing senator's opinions about the consequences of not returning the report. Secretarys have an enormous responsibility, and one of their responsibilities is to share information, not just to the council, but to the public as well. The moral principle discussed here is about communication with the public, not with the council. The questions are: What does it mean if ministers can only refrain from following a moral code that they establish according to law? Is that not reassuring? Is it responsible? Is it not a misuse of power when a minister who did business through a tax host decides to hide a report - hide it - about the business of Icelanders through the tax industry just before elections, which were rushed by taxes? [[The president calls.]] Not everyone in the Panama papers. Such persons have no comment on whether or not to publish reports on such subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u7	A respectable president. I'm going to say that it can't be accepted that neither member of the Independence Party was involved in a special discussion yesterday. This is where they beat up the highest. The environmental minister is aware that he has been opposed to the correction at the time when it was considered possible for a report to have not appeared before elections. Other than that, they haven't expressed themselves, as far as I can remember, about late reporting, and they just seem to hide it. But then a bright future goes on Facebook and tries to deceive voters into thinking that they were alone in opposition to the correction but were afraid to come here to stand up for their case. What kind of work are these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to cut the same knees as those who came before. I think it's really weird because somehow I thought this one was here, that room we're in, would be the heart of the council. This is our seminar where we talk to one another and have a conversation with the nation, so I find it very unusual when two of the three different government groups feel that there is no reason to participate in two very special discussions on issues of enormous importance. I think we're supposed to be hanging out with this stuff with respect. We saw it every day at the highest. The minister of the environment stood here and handled the truth a little freely. She hasn't been here and corrected yet, but she's done it on Facebook. This is the place, this is the heart, this is the seminar, here we should have a place to speak with each other, and if we go to this place, we should correct it here. Let us show honor to one another and to the assembly that we represent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u9	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself have less time. Governments to their core policy, for in the general convention of the Convention, it says: To make the right decisions, you must make. An open access to information is essential to knowledge. Official public relations should be further developed. We're headed for the Bright Future, we're going to say: ▪ Information is gold. (7) Information is gold Let's talk together, let's tell the truth. ▪ The greatest and most difficult issues will be resolved by data, research, open conversation, and democratic means. I'm asking myself, sir, a respectable president, if the only attitude of these administrations against these reports is that it was unfortunate that the report did not appear earlier, that there was some clumsiness in the prime minister. Do they have nothing more to say about this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u10	Madam President. This was very special here yesterday, since two classes did not participate in special discussions. This part of the program, a special discussion, is that I know of an enormously important tool that we have at the General Assembly to discuss matters that are important to individual members or that burn on the nation at any time. Hence, it is vital that all political groups take part in the discussion and express their views there. It is simply important to the public that the discussion takes place. I've had my experience here so that there's more trouble with the time in this form, that two minutes for the general council is hardly enough to promote viewpoints. I sure hope we don't see such a thing happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u11	Madam President. I agree with my colleagues who are not pleased with the company of Prime Ministers to leave him alone in his special discussion yesterday. But I thought other parts of the program were special yesterday. An unprepared question time was on the program for the meeting. Among them was the expulsion of a British citizen from Iclandda's plane on the way to the United States. There was a spit of lips at the highest. Minister: Surely, if I had known about this inquiry, I might have been digging for it. Now I'm new here, and maybe I'm not quite over it yet, but I thought the very nature of unprepared queries was just that they were not prepared. Could the president direct me to see if the idea is that we should prepare the highest level. Minister for the queries?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u12	V.E.G. President. I've been here for almost 14 years at a council, and this is now one of the most insane kulls I've ever seen a government stand trying to blow up here in this room. [[Up front.]] Thank you, my dear. paritaprevir Savavar's Svavarsdóttir, Zóggis, for giving me a word in this. Because this amazing occasion, that all members of the council of the government groups and seven or eight or what else members of Congress would come the next day to complain about the absence of some sort from a special discussion the very day before, there is one of the most amazing pine bombes I've ever seen in this hall. I can't say anything else. If this is true of the issue of government opposition, it is shocking. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u13	Madam President. In itself, I did not intend to interfere with what categories speak of what matter and when. [[Up front.]] I think it's odd, though, that they didn't use the opportunities, and I thought it would be polite to do so at the council when they could. I have, according to the nature of the case, an understanding that there may be a Mass in a small council, but this was two discussions. I come up here to criticize the fact that instead of taking the conference here at the council, they choose to go to Facebook and carry my associates who are mistakenly at the council. This happened on Bjart's official Facebook page and I insist that they apologize for not handling the right things. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u14	Madam President. I want to agree with the 10th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, attracting attention to the past unsubstantiated inquiries. This is the opportunity for members of Congress to ask them Ministers about a number of matters that specialize themselves in the Senate hall in order to give a reply to what burns on them. Yesterday, under this program, a minister of judicial matters answered when asked who was responsible for the action directed against a Welsh teacher during the days, which was prevented from moving forward to the United States: 'If I had known of this inquiry, I might have been digging for it. Madam President. Is it really necessary to make the humble desire for ministers who have signed up to answer in unsubstantiated inquiries prepared by minimal practice? Is it not evident that ministers who are in charge of this matter will have minimal respect for the council and the Senate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u15	Madam President. Since I started working here at the council, tradition, tradition, tradition, has been forever spoken of. It's tradition for the rest, and you're always supposed to follow tradition, even if it's ridiculous, stupid, and even meaningless. Under these groups, there is a protocol for participation, i.e. During a special discussion, it is customary for participation. That may be another ridiculous custom, but maybe it's good to try to follow it. Whether these members of the council wanted to speak against their prime minister, I do not know, and they may have also refused to speak to support or defend this ridiculous practice. I don't know, but I'd like them to come and explain. Finally, I wanted to point out that tomorrow's schedule is not yet planned and that the program is not part of the week. This must be corrected because there are also people outside the community who need to follow the program here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u16	A respectable president. I think we just need to start the conference on Facebook to get some answers from the top of the board. I don't think that anything like that ever happened. And to call this one one one of the biggest scrawl talks about the President's conference board that was in the history of the council - I've seen it worse than myself, and I've only been to Congress for a year and a half. In view of the fact that the government's work has been completed for the first two weeks and also for that week, it is a joke. [[Up front.]] We're talking about maybe one through two, at most three or four, primes from the government, and here's one case that's a correction of the delicate tactics we've seen at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[For example, the amount is not the same as quality.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I beg you to forgive me that there is a loss of cause from the government. Everyone needs to take a look at himself, and especially the highest. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u17	President. Now I just offered that people could come up here and answer the questions I asked yesterday. But since I did it and until I asked for it, no one from the groups mentioned were silent. I think it's a little strange and people might at least Just take advantage of this opportunity to give the reasons why it did not go to the discussion yesterday. It's not that complicated. And it's... it's... it's... it's... it's...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u18	A respectable president. I notice it's up to the council president of the Independence Party today. I can well understand that he is trying to cover up that today's program is an excellent subject, a special discussion, which I hope most people are participating in, a case from committees, and then one four cases from members of Congress. In other words, there is nothing from the government. Perhaps the majority of the opposition is because it does not have enough to do with the work, the cause of delinquency, it has nothing to maintain the government because it is just a matter of Congress on the agenda. I hope we all share. I come up for the second time, Madam President, because I directed two requests to the president and a request to get an answer to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u19	The president would like to inform us that in the great opening bank at the beginning of a meeting and in the previous session of the senator's meeting with the president, the president reached only another inquiry. It was asked if a minister had contacted the President of the Generals to bring a assembly during a district week, but a minister did not contact the president of the council. In addition, the president of the council has no ◯missed sheets in his phone from the government's counsellors. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u20	Madam President. Of course, it is not surprising that we council members of the U.S. government come here and call attention to the failure of the members of the two members of the administrations. These were no small cases here yesterday. That's for sure. It must be, too, if the senators don't think they know better, to discuss it here. I got an apology from the highest. Secretary of finance through a book and through the press. The words fell here. It's supposed to be an apology here. That's the natural process. The same is true today. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson pointed out earlier. People here are supposed to apologize, break them off, or feel that they have an apology to make. This is our seminar. I'm encouraging a new what. Councilmen to study the matter more fully and to take advantage of the experience of older senators, do not feel that they know how to approach them. And, of course, I strongly urge you, too. Councilmen revered, the House of Parliament, and the bright future to tell us here why they made their decision yesterday not to participate in this conversation with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u21	A respectable president. There are still members of the Generals of Hearts the future and the restorations that fast and keep a low standard of silence. In their defense, the head of the Independence Party has come, just as yesterday, the Independence Party was the only class to represent itself in the issue of reporting that was at the highest point. Secretary of finance. This, however, seems to be some persistent development, as has been discussed in conference talks, with members of Congress and the highest level. Ministers prefer to comment further in the media and on Facebook on matters relating to the council. There seems to be no exception here. I guess that's what we'll get on Facebook later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u22	Madam President. Well, I don't have one meter or another. Birgir An Ármannsson's drive to what's the most grouse that's fallen here in a Senate hall. I would like to, however, that although I haven't been at the council for a long time, I've been online for quite a while and I know how to Google a little, reading from a talk held on April 15, 2009, with the permission of a president: ▪ I suppose there is some explanation that this house does not represent the two categories, the forward Party, and the liberal Party, which are among the categories that are involved in the bill discussed today. This, of course, recommends why. paritaprevir Birgir an Ármannsson, then a government antiauthor. Now I need the tape, but I think it's a pine bomb of the same magnitude as the one that's falling here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u23	Madam President. I'd decide what to do with it. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son that various members of the council should be planned. Now I think I know there are committees, and they could be on the move if there was a wish in all the committees. I wanted to use this opportunity to direct it to the committees and senators in committees trying to speed up so that we at the government stand have something to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u24	V.E.G. President. I felt like I had to come up here because people were talking about grouses. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to thank the government stand for catching up with the procurator of the Independence Party on the flight. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I haven't seen him on such a flight since I started a council. I just wanted to discuss the complaint that has been made that the Minister of Justice has not been prepared for the question that a Welsh teacher was evicted from some plane by Ikelanda. [[Is there a plane in it?]] Yeah, I guess there's a plane. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Complaining that she had not been properly prepared. Of course, Minister of Justice does not know what happens on daily airplanes. The Senator might as well have asked her what was happening with her school system in Wales. This is a case involving a company that has a duty to the U.S. government and had planned to fly there. This matter had nothing to do with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u25	Madam President. Because of Braunus Níelsson's son's words, I'd like to present a point of view into the discussion that, of course, a man can see that counsellers can have a problem of knowing everything at all times. It may be difficult to be in that situation. I feel sorry for that. However, it was a big matter that really mattered. There is, for example, a minister of justice who handles the passport cases in Iceland. Of course, the big discussion that has been in Iceland for the past few weeks is important because Iceland has come up, how to handle matters as a local station between Europe and the United States. Then it is of great importance that we know what the responsibility of the Icelandic government is, what an Icelandic company needs to do about some of the plans that come from the United States. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's normal to make that claim to the highest level. Minister to enter the case. If she does not know the answer to the question here, she should at least announce that she will inquire and then carry it into this room and answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u26	A respectable president. I wonder what. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson or somebody in this room thinks it was a coincidence or something about a meeting vagina that these two groups did not comment on this particular matter yesterday. Yes, there was a bright future that was opposed to correction. And when the prime minister who sits in their shelter and is responsible for the correction is in answer to them, they comment nothing about it but on Facebook with deception, as we have seen. Where is the responsibility of those who talk about voluntaryness and increase democracy and political responsibility when their prime minister comes up in a pit and refuses to answer whether he has violated the code of morality? He says: "Well, if you think I've violated ethics, you can just come with distrust. Maybe we will. If someone can give in to distrust, does that mean that he has done everything right? Is that what Bjarts thought about the future? That as long as a person is disloyal, is he politically responsible and their prime minister? Is that your attitude? They don't comment on this. It's no coincidence or toss with a meeting thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u27	Madam President. I come back here in a talk chair to explain a little something out of the 1st. Smoke. So, the joyful Brumbler of the son of Níelsson. It must be minimal enough for a minister of Iceland's government to answer in a few ways when a British citizen is removed from a plane without an explanation and will continue to follow up on the country without any explanation. To review, both to the happy senator and the Minister of Justice, I asked yesterday: What is the explanation of the action taken by the government and directed toward the British citizen on his way to the United States? What is the reason why the government kept man in this country, and on what basis were they made decisions? What is the responsibility of the Icelandic government toward people treated like this? No answers received. None.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u28	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sadly, though, a Birgir - old Ármannsson went out here a lot earlier, his words were not original, for he thought of a few phrases about gills and fortunes. It's a bit sour in this whole context. The reality is, I think I'm political, that we're seeing it, and, of course, I hope it will change, according to this discussion here, that, in fact, there is an entirely greater part of the independence party in power with the support of two groups who choose not to express themselves in large matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u29	A respectable president. Yeah, it's all a little strange. I think it's a twofold thing. On the one hand, what has to do with the council itself and special discussions that all of us are to participate in, which we simply owe our voters and the people of the country to participate in so that they can observe our stand on certain matters. However, it is the material. I think it's a cold greeting from right now. Councilmen Bjöts have no reason to participate in a report of two former whales. Senators of Birts'futures were among the news requests. I think it's a cold greeting to the senators whose future is no longer in this hall that when the report they asked for is finally discussed, the current senators of Birt considered the future to be no reason to destroy a single word
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u30	A respectable president. Given the occasion, I would like to discuss only the meeting arrangements unprepared queries. It is true that they are meant to be prepared, and they are now all equal. However, it is in this council hall, and I am especially referring now to new members of Congress, that if people are interested in some intellectual debate and response to inquiries, it has been customary here for decades, for courtesy, to let the minister know at least about the subject of questions, even though it was only half an hour before the inquiry so that they know what it is, especially if the subject is taken up from a news lesson since the night before, which is the very nature of these conferences. However, I gave the complete answer that I thought, that the case that came directly to me in inquiry has never been entered by the Icelandic government board. The Icelandic government has never been involved in this. I have the information, and it was predicted that the individual has never consulted the Icelandic government. He has consulted the U.S. embassy and the British embassy. [[The president calls.]] I don't know any better than it was in the news. [[Up front.]] But since the news is all there is to say, it came out in the news. Iceland's government has never been consulted on this matter. [[Up front.]] Of course, if you do, I'll let the matter be taken over and even more ministers. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, don't you think?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u31	There's been some very poor people who've been pointing out the best. The president has every previous inquiry. 2.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! was at the outset of this discussion about the President's conference board, but she showed how many cases had occurred in special discussions. The president will have the advantage of a combination of these numbers, but it has happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u32	A respectable president. You may have to apologize to the nation for the discussions that have been conducted here for less than 40 minutes. In fact, I was going to talk about the ideal week, which has just gone by and was very happy, as it once was. It is especially fun to go through the South Sea and hear the good spirit that exists in society and sees general prosperity. That is a big change from the first 2013 C.E. when the housing situation was the most difficult to deal with. It is also very good news that came to the end of the district week when the seaman strike was canceled. It was tremendous and good news after a long, hard run in a strike. However, despite the fact that fishermen have won their first phases in this long battle, their wages are constantly falling. Of course, in many ways the British pounds and crowns have changed, and prices in the markets have dropped very much. I have striking numbers about how seamen and fishing are changing during this time, from, like, the year before. In the year 2013 ◯2015. Actually, I'm going to go to the last year, but last year, in February, codlands were cod in the Hornfjord, uncoupted cod, as about 300 k. lost to the kilogram. Today, the same product is sold at 160 bucks. In these cases, there is almost half decrease. It can also be noted that after Russia's market shut down the purchase of the horse or the litter, the price has dropped by 90%. That means direct loss of income for sailors. This is a direct loss of income for the rurals. It's a direct drop in income for the state. In the shelter of the completed strike, sailors live with less pay than before, despite good agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u33	A respectable president. Yesterday, I asked the prime minister about the submission of a report and focused on asking whether the material in the report was a public interest. He did not answer that question. I also asked him if he had violated the code of ethics. He did not answer that question. A respectable president. It's a pain in the ass when a minister doesn't answer questions. So we will continue to ask the prime minister of these questions until he answers them. The timeline of this case, in mid - September, gave a report to the Ministry. On October 5th we're giving a presentation to a minister. On October 7, the minister will return a memo to the government, which I would like a copy of. On October 10, the minister answers that the report is coming, knowing that it is ready. October 17 is presented with a request from a non-supervising committee. November 6 was a news report in the reactor that announced that the report should be submitted to a committee. That's when the report was completed. The report was not submitted to a committee in December. The report is finally released on January 6, when the Council is not at work and the Economic Committee is not working. Making up this report is of utmost importance, what the prime minister said. Information from this report would hopefully be very important for the objective of a discussion, as the prime minister said. This was what the prime minister refused, denied, as per his own opinion, the voters refused to discuss the subject. It was the decision of the minister not to publish the report, it was his evaluation that its contents clearly did not have a public interest, otherwise he should have published it. As a participant, in the Panama Documents, he should have been incapable of making some kind of decision to issue the report or to approach its contents in any way. [[The president calls.]] That's the definition of a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u34	V.E.G. President. Today, a special week is over, and we senators are learning more about the various projects in the country's settlements. After my trip to the Northeast District, I think of how rich we are in menial people who are the driving force in various communities. Today, I would like to call attention to the current seven zones of Freight. These are called Redfarves and the future, Creedification for the Future, The Valley of Turbulence: Perla Eyjafjörður, Gímur, Oxjörður I was so lucky to have a meeting at the Naurfa Harbor for the past week. The meeting was a part of the project led by a Based Office and was initiated at Redfarves in cooperation with citizens. From the beginning, there would be a strategy that could be used in other places that would also be faced with the problems of reduced and difficult employment. The aims of the inhabitants of the Redfarve were increased dinners to strengthen the foundation, to increase housing, to continue working on the Arctic, Internet, secure hotel services, and other good projects. The most exciting thing is to say that all these tasks are in water and even far away. Over the last two years, the population has increased. But to get to the next stage, you need to strengthen your tourism and adjust transportation. That's where the government's coming in. I am looking forward to hearing how the government is going to carry out this project as it has been established by a contract with the Department of Employment and Development. How are people going to feed the apparent failure to fulfill promises of success? He's an important part of the area. The right hand has to know what the left man does. I wish for the Redfarves and the rest of the crew to do the very best. The global village of Redfarers truly has a future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u35	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, a very interesting discussion of reports, property and debt correction was presented. During the last term, a great many debates were made. Members of this body, the council's work, may be asked to give more attention to a special discussion program in which certain matters were being cut down. Often, speakers directed their words to a dignified president about the importance of the public speaking period and wanted a longer public speaking period, such as in part. paritaprevir About this matter at the end of a meeting session, the Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadottir came up with a discussion about the matter. I had an opportunity yesterday to participate in a report on Iceland's domestic property and would have liked to participate in the discussion of the detriment of the security loans. It came as a surprise to me that no representatives of two government classes, the bright future, and the restorations were able to participate in the discussion of the last major operation. Governments. But I'm gonna take this opportunity here and agree with them why. The members of the council who participated in the discussion yesterday spoke to this project and outlined how successful she was and why she was successful. The operation was required, and it was carefully planned, planned, and carefully planned. I felt that the discussion brought it up. Of course, such a course is difficult and can never be drawn into the sand so that it will be without blemish. But there is no question about the fact that homes have fallen in debt, and the situation of this important economic unity has improved substantially. If we appreciate the results of this operation by setting goals, we can only say that it was truly successful and successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to include only on the issues of the Oceanographic Institute. It is an institution that should be of enormous importance to all of us in Iceland and should be at the moment of work and capital. As we read, one of us at least, in the very good report of the News News magazine this morning, it is said that the Oceanographic Institute was not given sufficient funds in the budget of December to maintain the measurement required by a minimum of the updrafts. Although this was identified, the indications did not respond. That means, for example. that the Agency had not been used in the fur way except for the paying of the search that we've observed to result in significant increases in hairy areas. I wonder if the value of the export that this increase produced is somewhere around 17 billion. A marine research agency thinks he needs about 300 million. K. another search. But we are not only to watch this from pets and pennies but to be our moral responsibility as a fishing nation who wants to pursue sustainable fishing well that the Marine Research Institute and the research of marine life are to be ahead of time in our priorities. As the Oceanographic Institute has itself pointed out, the Agency has also been consulted for rapid building of fish farms, adding to the need to increase funds to the Marine Research Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u37	A respectable president. Yesterday, a special discussion of the report on the correction was presented, and it attracted some to the fact that the future was not being addressed in that discussion. Hv. paritaprevir The left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, also spoke of the fact that the government covenant did not specifically mention housing matters. I want to answer this by reminding them of the bright future's view of correction, for we have always spoken loudly and clearly about our attitude toward it, and it should not hide anyone. We vote on the correct money of the 21st des. 2013 was only four members of the council who voted against the use of the funds in this way. These were Parliamentaries Bjarts'future. The other two who were not present at the vote have also made a public statement about their attitude, which is the same. We believe that money is better spent on other basic activities and systems that have been starving, e.g. Our health and education systems. I did not participate in the conversation yesterday, simply because I have nothing more to say about it. I don't think our time is spent in a competition for who's setting the hair dryer for the most part that day. How many times do I have to describe as a member of the current government and head of the welfare committee that I would have wanted this money for a project that I take responsibility for today? I would've wanted this money for a project, but it's done and done, and it can't be changed. So I'd rather use my time and energy to get information about how to deal with the crisis in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u38	A respectable president. Reports have taken a lot of time over the past few days and weeks, especially in the timing of their publication. I'm not going to cut down the same knee here, but I want to make a subject of how to react to reports. It is often said that reports serve the purpose of killing cases and that they are caught in the drawers of the advisers who ask for them. I would like to mention one example here on a report that was not made, even if there were clear tips on how to bring matters to a better end. This report is about the Food Institute. From 2008 onward, since an institution, food - control agency has been subjected to harsh criticism, especially by a host, and the media have often discussed matters in this regard. A government review took the activities of the Food Agency for a reexamination and returned a more thorough report to the Ministry of Employment and Development in 2013. It suggests that if the Agency does not have a more efficient, more efficient, more efficient, more effective food control if it is to be united on one hand, it needs to be established by the Ministry. In this way, the authors point out that funding must follow the legal tasks that MIAST is intended for, etc. Two and a half years later, in April 2016, the Government Review of a follow-up report was submitted. It turns out that the Ministry had done nothing to respond to these indications. It's been three years. Clearly, there is some offense in the function and system of this institution, as demonstrated clearly when the so - called brown - edged plant came up. [[The president calls.]] So I say: Let us publish our reports as quickly as they are returned and pay attention to what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u39	A respectable president. So I'm feeling that a representative of the Cradle was missed from two discussions last night at a council. I'm kind of kind and obliged to use this opportunity here, since this is my place, and let my meditation on travel and health care await a better time. It was two discussions yesterday, on the one hand, on the report of the thenpest report. Secretary of finance, this is now the highest. Prime Minister, of Iceland's holdings in foreign lands. It has simply been very clear in discussions, including in the media, at the very beginning, the attitude of the restoration to that matter. We do not consider it to be worthy of not publishing reports and other official data as soon as they are available. In a spirit of emphasis on the importance of open and enlightened discussion, this was an example of the highest degree. Secretary of the series We didn't get back a long time, one or two days to remember, to publish the second report that was being discussed last night, i.e. ... ofthe subsidence of insured loans. In regard to the attitude of the restoration to that report, the fact is that the whole issue was established and settled and passed over before the establishment of a political force. It's just that our position on this matter is out of the question. I could stand here and describe my personal view of this and many others, but I don't think that's what people call it. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] - Later. We have simply considered the better way for us to look to the future and to consider other matters. [[The president calls.]] Then, in the end, I want to say again that in the spirit of our emphasis on open and enlightened discussion and our emphasis, and I now hold most of the others, with freedom of speech, we make our own decision when we come up here and take up the case and when we don't. [[The president calls.]] I'm willing to respect customs and traditions and make it a point, but freedom of speech will I not give up on my part, not on my behalf, and not on the behalf of a reverend.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u40	A respectable president. It is so that the priorities of the Independence Party are government primes that come from our counsellors. Other matters that are not considered so important come from members of the council. Like, for example. A matter of 65th, which is the first Congress issue of a member of the Independence Party to be made on the program for this council. There's a proposal for a interpretation of the memory of the two-year-old Árnason of Jón. In fact, the proposal has been proposed before. Like the bill on free drinking. Now it is so true that things in society can be fixed and fixed. Some cases involve many, few people, some consider minor issues, and others feel small. But in terms of this particular bill, I would like to point out that the members of Congress, which are most shocked by the fact that the government puts the matter first, that the Council is really supposed to spend their time on the matter, they are the same and take the matter up most often here at the council. They're the ones who keep the case to the best of their means. They are the ones who say that they do not want to spend the duration of the council on the matter, but in the other, they use all means to delay it and prevent it from being treated for Congress. There's something strange about such double - skind people. In turn, some members of the Parliament have made the matter a subject of the recent conversation that must indicate that they prefer to have it discussed more fully. Nor is this the result of a proper and material discussion, but not with some of the reports, since most senators who have expressed themselves about the subject seem to have read a letter in the bill and are not inclined to use facts in the media. The bill is just one of the many subjects discussed here at the council. There's no top priority. However, it is a prince's case and a natural development problem that is to be achieved in 2017, my opinion. But many other such issues could be mentioned, such as. to allow the transfusion of gay men, or to authorize drug sales in public stores, or to break government protection rates in the cab market, and so on. Madam President. The so - called alcohol bill is not the most important subject at this time. But I am confident that after a few years of reviewing the matter, it will be viewed as a memorable change, such as excommunication from the Bjord and allowing the color TV to be allowed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u41	V.E.G. President. The EU Convention, i.e. The EEA contract, is our most important business and partnership with other countries. With it, we draw close to the European Union, along with Norway and Liechtenstein. It is vital that we cultivate that contract and act lovingly. It may never have been as urgent as at this time. It is enough to point out the trend in the United States with a new president and that Britain will begin a discussion about its exits from the European Union in the next few months. At the last month's session, the EFTA Commission published its regular report on the implementation of the EEA on the Directives and regulations adopted by the EEA Convention. The best time is to say that we are not doing good there. In March 2014, a former government introduced its special European policy. Its core was to promote the EEA integration work and to enable the walking process to repair a permanent environ ment, but it didn't work. It is a real disappointment that we have returned and that at the beginning of this year, we have a home of induction of about 2.2% while it is 0.2% in Norway and 0.9% in Liechtenstein. Here, we simply have to do something better. That's why I'm so happy to hear that. The minister of state has described his ambition to take over, as shown by his declarations after a meeting with Frank Bakke-Bakke-Jensen, EEA and European secretary of the Management Board, which appeared on the very same day as the Commission published its report on January 31 of this issue. V.E.G. President. I'm the highest. Governments, members of the Generals, and members of the council to work together to eliminate this dead palace as quickly as possible. [[The president calls.]] As a matter of fact, I'm sure that's what I'm willing to do. Nevertheless, I would like to encourage all of us to rejoice in these matters. It is our common duty to do the EEA agreements, to live up to Iceland's commitments, and thus to companies, and to pay their rights and rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u42	Madam President. Because of what to say. paritaprevir Nichole Mosty here, I think it's right to be held accountable for the bill on correcting the price-seated mortgage loans were left green, the Controversity and the Pirantar all back. It was a bright future, too. But I find it boring when men present half - truths and try to mislead people. In fact, I was going to talk about housing matters that, of course, are much more urgent at the moment. In an interview with two real estate dealers in the News magazine this morning, we find that an apartment in every neighborhood of the city is going to cover and people are even offering to their home without having seen it. It's all at the same well. This has resulted in an emergency in a facility that is fraught with chemical and young people. At this morning's open meeting, representatives of the ASI showed that there was only money for 300 of the 600 apartments promised this year in connection with collective agreements. In the special discussion of the United States with the new Minister for housing matters, these matters were discussed. The highest possible understanding could not be understood. Social and housing minister's office differs from the fact that these promises were kept. The government has had plenty of time to put in credible, financing ways and present it, but nothing has been done. The management board will be in a tangible way assured members of the labour market that an agreement will be held together with the latest labour agreements for the construction of 2,400 apartments by 2019. What's in the way? Why have those promises not been made more clearly? It will be a world of Congress, but especially for the common people, to know at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u43	Madam President. I think it's perfectly clear after a speech. The chairman of the House Reunionuned that we legislators must adopt our purposes and goals with a special discussion here at the council and in all their classes. But that's not what I was going to discuss here. It's that when we speak about the United States banking system, its scope and its service, we have to look forward to being few and the market, and we have to develop a routine and monitoring of financial activities that have international recognition and trust. This is also a prerequisite for a competitive foreign trade. The independent currency with unstable gangs, which have a major impact on the change in prices in the country, is also one of the Icelandic economy's characteristics, along with insurance. It is important that the State employs its owners'influence in banks to promote suitable and practical development of financial markets and its organization. The objective should be to develop a financial system that can cope with financial difficulties. The future financial systems in Iceland have to aim for a secure, efficient, and appropriate scope for national development. So I think it's important that we make sure that the financial system will not be permanent in the unchanged form, in the future, that investment banking and business banking will be separated. The public will be protected from the risks of investment banking and will be made up of banks responsible for services as inexpensive as possible to people and normal companies. In this way the financial system and investments with minimal risk will become part of the general service to the people of the country. We're not supposed to sell the banks now, but we're going to take advantage of the opportunity to reorganize the banking system. Thereafter, the practicality of selling parts of the Kingdom could be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u44	Madam President. It is always as upbuilding to come from a ballot week to meet a number of people and to talk to local rulers as to those who are doing things far and wide around the country. With the members of the district of the northwestern district, we discussed a number of local government officials, and they made many important issues. It also stated that some of them, in fact, just most of them, could have also been moved 20 years ago, that in many cases, we are sadly in the opposite direction. People are always talking about the same things, infrastructure, and quality of life as in the capital area in many ways. While the situation of many rural society is in irons, much upbuilding and positive things are taking place in the structure of employment and in various matters. Then the government must enter there to support the rural and national settlements by building up funds. It has been completely lacking in the last government, and the present government does not contribute much to the change, unfortunately. It's totally missing this infrastructure. It was not said of burning wine in a camp, that they were very concerned that no booze would be found in the camp. There's enough access to booze in the country, I can tell you. I can mention, for example, that in cold areas, the Union's regime has sent a conclusion showing great disappointment over the rise in electricity. At the General Assembly, a law was adopted to balance the cost of house warming or electrical transfers. Unfortunately, electricity prices in the region have increased dramatically. This is just one example of how not everyone lives in the same terms. [[The president calls.]] So we need to change here at the General Assembly and pull the region into the same place as the capital area is in many materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u45	Madam President. There is good reason to be concerned about gender rights in the hands of the modern government. Of the few but beautiful words of the government covenant, we must call for action. The best time to remember is to ask someone in the Hall of Congress to say that they are the highest. Justice minister will not promote equality, i.e. It will not be used specifically in order to increase the number of women in a specific way to a judge's office. Sexual immorality is a fact in Icelandic society. There is good reason to highlight this legal group at all levels, whether in the field of police, rural governments, courts, social services, or health care. Security and educational matters need to be put first in the community as well, and it is clear that every day we need to keep on the watch. Every day, Madam President. If we just look at yesterday's day, there will be easy discussion of digital sexual abuse in the media, where victims of the blame - 2017. I would point out that there is no gender difference in pay, which, of course, should not be in 2017, but it is a fact, and a fact that we have to deal with for some reason. And so it is that a minister of justice believes that there is no need to take specific measures to equalize the sexes of the class, that time must work on that challenge. Madam President. I express a clear voice from the government in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u46	Madam President. In view of the words that fell before us about how the senators had voted for the correction issues of their time, I must say that it is called a hairdressing of the matter, killing it out, and actually treating members of Congress as though they have supported the matter of taking the last legal vote on the technical law. Senators of the left green voted against this operation. A bright future is not holy in it, and I want it to happen here. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Nichole Mosty specifically talked about the money payment it was throughout the entire process that we voted against it and I don't think it's a good practice to argue with it and to assume that her party was the only one who did it through that discussion. But I'm going to talk about the housing that came in earlier. What a concern it is when we read day after day about young people being literally driven into poverty because they are driven into the street! Stores are for sale only for large sums of money because the market is ruined. It is being bombed up by some of the sources who are buying up apartments who are becoming big-time housekeepers. In an interview with people yesterday, it was reported that they were going to buy a four - room apartment of nearly 44 million, received a payment but cannot buy because they are trapped in the ten - year - old ten - year - old city, U.S.A., $200,000. ... rent. They are traditional people who work well and study and other such, and they in themselves are financially well - off, but the market is so redesigned. A good society that has a reasonable housing policy that is marked by a young person's having adequate housing is, of course, what we are to contribute to. So we cannot help but ask this question. There is nothing in the government covenant for young people and housing. [[The president calls.]] There is no budget for 300 apartments in current budgets. What will the government do? She says she's not going to pick up the budget. What will she do about these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u47	V.E.G. President. The availability and availability of enough food and food for consumption are always among the most important things at any given time worldwide, since all of us need to eat to live. These two parts are often confused during the discussion, on the one hand, food security, which means that enough food is available, and food security, i.e. that food is safe for consumption. It is good to make a distinction before continuing to do so. Food security is very high in Iceland, if not the highest thing in the world. The incidence of food-related infections is very low. The reasons why we have been so successful, so to speak, are noted. little use of antibiotics, a pair with Norse, and other nations come a long way behind us, good surveillance, and no use of hormones in food. Few things are more valuable than wholesome, safe food. Do we want to change that? I believe that by importing raw meat, we'd be digging for food security in Iceland, but I'd like to hear the bottom line. Minister on that. But let us move on to the security of food. The applicant's team proposed a synonym to the 141th Parliament for developing a food security policy, to define threats to food security, and to prepare for the appropriate response. In a paper with the proposal, it says, by permission of the president: To create natural disasters, many factors can endanger the food security of Icelanders. damage to the distribution systems on which you trust, especially where the distribution systems are largely localized, such as in Reykjavík. Farm stocks in this country are very sensitive to potential alien infections, and it is important that the Icelandic government can implement necessary measures to protect the Icelandic livestock and thus provide food security. The lack of oil can exert a powerful influence on fishing and agriculture and, therefore, on the national food security. Similarly, in today's electricity system failures can cause serious damage because electricity is the basis for today's storage methods. At the same time, there is a danger of how much Icelandic production is based on imports, it limits food production to an enormous degree if the import is shut down and there is no food supply regularly in the country, and the next impossible to respond if a sudden emergency occurs. V.E.G. President. According to this, it can be concluded that it is important that the country's future agricultural policy is represented by a targeted global food and food safety policy. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: 1st Will Minister change the system and then how? 2. Will a minister change the agricultural import rules and how? 3. Has a minister thought about providing a comprehensive food and food policy? After reading the Government Treaty on agrienvironmental matters, I am little closer. It even says, by permission of a president: ▪ It should be stressed not to reduce practicality and to continue to support farm position where possible. A reevaluation of a livestock contract will be a foundation for a new agreement with farmers who are expected to end no later than in 2019 C.E. Will be encouraged by the government to increase the impact of general support, such as agriculture, investments, innovations, environmental protection and innovations, but to reduce specific agricultural concentrations. Let's just hang on a second here. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What kind of support should be increased, and in what way should he be served? What sums of money are we talking about in this context? Also, I'm interested in getting more information about how a minister provides a means to reduce specific agricultural strength. What strength is involved? How much will they be reduced? In view of a minister's opinion, what advantages are there in reducing specific agricultural concentrations? Has a minister wondered if he or she has a special advantage, and then who? The Treaty also speaks of the need to reevaluate the import equipment and define the basis for the variation from competitive legislation for the milk industry and to make appropriate adjustments. There, too, I'd like to stop and get an explanation from the Supreme Court. A minister on which ◯ relevant changes are meant. What's the greatest vision of all? Minister for the future of the milk industry in Iceland? I also keep my mind focused on gardening. I see that time is coming from me, so I don't think I'm going to get any closer to seeing that we're moving too much of a vegetable and making much less than we could possibly do. But the electricity costs are way too high, and I'd like to hear the highest opinions. A minister has the future of gardening and how it provides for government access in that regard. Finally: Will she continue her project in the Embarrasia of Iceland, which was launched in 2015?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u48	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for taking up a critical case related to the agriculture. There must be, as it is, that the questions I received were many, as I presented at the moment. A senator, and I'm sure I can get it all. I also heard it in another excellent speech. The senator added questions so that the discussion may not be as informed as I would have chosen, but I try to do my best. I hope we can talk again, and we certainly will, the business of the agricultural. Food production is important to us, and it is unmistakably one of the basics of Icelandic employment. The marine road, as we know, fishing and agriculture, produces a wide variety of exports, but agriculture serves us with varied, productive production, and mainly serves a domestic market with certain variations. The government's policy is certainly to build even more of these sectoral sectors, promote them, and increase their value production by promoting innovation, infrastructure, and healthy competition. The Treaty specifically shows that consumers and environmental issues should be guided. Our goal is to reconcile more fully the interests of farmers, consumers, manufacturers, and the environment. These factors can go together. Food security is a major variable in integrating these interests. Hv. A senator asked about food safety and food security policy. I think we need to frame this further. I expect to cooperate with them. In this country, we live in many ways under ideal circumstances, e.g. For weather and clean nature. It even appeared. in the small need for the use of insecticides or medicinal products in agriculture. We Icelanders and I have a special standing in this relationship and should make an assessment of ourselves. There you can even find them. our strengths beyond those of other nations. Therefore, I am stressing that we adopt and implement an effective witnessing process that confirms the quality and health of Icelandic products, as well as that we provide effective and effective monitoring to ensure that quality standards are closely adhered to. Here again we meet the interests of consumers, farmers, and manufacturers. In accordance with this policy, a meat-marking principle has recently been adopted. It's taking up a regulation on organic certification. It is also an examination to establish a surveillance and certification system for the use of antibiotics in agrienvironment schemes, which should, in turn, better underline the status of Icelandic production. Finally, I think it is important that we examine systematic screening for multi-drug resistant bacteria, as our neighboring nations do to emphasize yet again the unique status of Icelandic production. If I get to the import, we're Icelanders for a number of reasons, especially because of the small size of the country, very much because of the import of food. In all the basic rules apply here and in Europe. It must be said, however, that the only exception to this is the import of unheated unencrypted meat that has not been permitted. However, in the fall of the year, the County Court of Reykjavík concluded that the ban was out of harmony with Iceland's duties under the EEA Convention. Of course, I decided to appeal the sentence to the Supreme Court in order to get the ultimate bottom of that matter. That judgment will arrive in the autumn. The tollkvots. According to a recent EU agreement, agricultural importers are expected to increase substantially. This is likely to happen in the summer after the council has approved it for its share. In this work of reviewing the regulations, consumer interests will be guided by prices and products. I realize, however, that this is not easy to solve, but my goals are clear; to meet the interests of consumers. In the end, when it arrives to the council, it is, of course, a success in solving this matter. I call for cooperation with stakeholders as well as the council in this case. That's a lot of questions. I'm just a third of the questions that I'm about done with. Senator. But I would like to make it clear that in the newly released agricultural contracts that are being revised in the coming years, there were steps to make support more general than previously, i.e. that farmers are less bound by their own habitat or that their support is too much to be attached to some species of livestock or livestock. Most countries have emphasized the need to reduce production-related support and go to non-productized support. I think it's a positive development. But I would also like to stress that this is especially with the Review Committee, but I believe that this development may increase the freedom of farmers to go new ways and may promote further innovation and infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] As I could, Madam President, I would have wanted to answer all the questions. A senator, but I try to reach them in my second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u49	Madam President. Each nation is precious to be able to produce as much food as possible in its own country. That applies especially to island like Iceland. The development of food production in Icelandic agriculture has made great progress in recent years, with the highest priority for the quality, purity, and low levels of antibiotic use, the least known in the world. The World Health Organization has declared that antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to human health today. The importance of agrienvironment schemes for consumers remains in the context of high industry in the country, the number of secondary jobs, the growth of the country's habitat and the reduction of long-term food imports by contaminating pollution. A future vision of food safety and food production is therefore essential, and it was the domestic contract that was given at the previous Parliament in those policies. It is important to achieve the highest level of agreement with the government to negotiate with the various Icelandic agricultural sectors as well as with consumers. The commission to revise the livestock contract over the next three years was to face both the criticism of farmers and other stakeholders on the contract. Thus, all the ideas of the expansion of tolloviums of meat and cheese do not result in further reconciliation. It is necessary to maintain the import filter on raw meat, since the prohibition is necessary to protect the Icelandic agriculture; such import also increases the risk that infectious agents may be transmitted to the country with greater risk of human and animal health. A food - care agency informed us that the imported chicken was sold as fresh in Icelandic containers. Of course, it is unacceptable not to know about the world's origins and the way animals travel and equipment are finished. Of course, this is what Icelandic consumers demand to know. Thus, it is long time for Ministers to set the rules for the meaning of national origin on all meat products and also on organic certification. Based on the vast number of tourists returning to Iceland, there is no greater need for more food production in the country and commercial interests and services to be out of control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u50	Madam President. First, I want to thank the advocate of his initiative in the discussion presented here. It's very important. I'd like to say in the beginning that we've made a lot of major decisions for Icelandic agriculture. We have framed Icelandic agriculture with rules and regulations that we have done far beyond many countries. We did so in 1965, excluded the use of hormones and growth - inducing substances in carnivores. We began to see that we were potentially damaging the long - term competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural field. In 1985, unless the use of antibiotics in feed was prohibited. This is the basis for us to have unique positions in Europe that recommend the use of antibacterials in food production, which are evident in its results. We are in the seat that everyone envys to be in, so we share with the Norwegians, and we are in a unique position in that regard. That position, of course, is to be defended. This frames in what we can say is special to Icelandic agriculture. Let's defend that. Let us also acknowledge this in competition with agriculture that allows for a completely different condition than we've allowed in this country, so we can't compare it and let it compete with that production status. I would also like to mention that in the Treaty of this government, the exact status of farmers throughout the country is spoken of. How important it is that we especially highlight it! It has something to do with it. The famous reserve of competition for the milk industry. Of course, it can be better arranged and discussed specifically, but it is extremely important that all farmers throughout the country have equal positions. I'm worried about it, Mr. Honorable President, that we're making rapid progress on a major problem in sheep farming in the country. I'd like to discuss it at the highest level possibly later. Agricultural minister. I am concerned that not all farmers will be able to get easily slaughtered on their lambs in the fall if that happens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u51	President. I wanted to mention only the technical reasons for food safety and security. There are some technical reasons, such as machines and material, but especially some futures or new technologies that I've mentioned before and that I'd like to review, i.e. Carnage. Carnage is a way of making meat without slaughtering an animal. The idea has existed since 1912 when Alexis Carrel managed to keep cells from the heart of a chicken alive for 34 years outside the body of the chicken. Then the cells died simply because it was a student who forgot to feed them. Winston Churchill predicted in 1931 that within 50 years we would be free of the absurdness of growing whole chickens just to eat the thigh or the chest. In 1995 the U.S. Food Organization agreed that experiments would be made to cultivate meat with the goal that food is not a problem on long space travel. The main advantage of cultivating meat is the environmental impacts, but extensive studies have been carried out on the environmental impacts of carnivore, requiring much lower energy, much less water than traditional animal development. No matter what Iceland does in preparation for this food generation technology, Iceland will have to deal with the changes that carnivore will have in its consumption practices. Although the demand for meat from animals will certainly not disappear, it will only decrease because of the environmental impacts, if not also because of moral influence. This could have a significant impact on agriculture and fishing soils, where fish meat can also be cultivated in Iceland as well as in other parts of the world. It is therefore of utmost importance that Iceland is prepared for this technological progress, both by strategy and by law. I've just got a synopsis proposal built for the highest degree. A minister who is expected to flee us so that we can get sooner into this future and will be better prepared for the technological revolution of carnivore.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u52	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. There are many viewpoints and evidences that give special support to agriculture in this country as well as in other countries. Food security, the lower price of goods and based standards are the most common. The organization has stressed that the agricultural system will be modified and that a more efficient structured system will be adopted, increasing the freedom of farmers, making innovation easier, promoting innovation and more efficient production and improved consumers. Official support should be conditioned for the practical use of land, animal choice, sustainableity and environmental protection. In the agricultural system here, the debate often involves the advantage of consumers at tables, including those for consumers. with the livestock contracts last time. Their review must improve the interests of both farmers and consumers. It's unacceptable. It is only natural to ask what consumers will get for the large sums of money placed in contracts and why there are no steps to allow competition or to form the demand for competition. The stock market will pay directly from the state funds of about 14 billion dollars. every year for the next 10 years if changes are not made. When this amount comes out of our joint funds, the evidence of being bulletproof and public interest needs to be obvious. Mankind's greatest common goal is to stop the warming of the earth. The agriculture in Iceland is to play a key role in this country with good domestic food production by cultivating land and restoring wetlands. I want at the end to ask the highest. Minister whether or not a farmer is not working to limit a farmer's right to advance the country. Today, although we realize that wetlands are important when we work to contribute to the Paris convention, there is no limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u53	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for this very important and needed a discussion on food production and food security. First, let me mention that when it comes to food production in general, we are very important to use our resources as well as other products with the most practical and efficient way. In order for this to happen, we need to analyze our manufacturing factors and the ability to use them. There are many players in; the size and size of the country, the interaction and cooperation between industry and competitiveness, the ability to produce benefits above other functions. Having said this, we need to take into account at the same time that we have an abundance of supply, food security, and the food we have at the end of our invitations as safe for food. Hv. The usefulness of food safety was highly appreciated and has many compelling questions to the highest level. A minister, with no hope of entering all of them in this brief talk. I want to thank you very much. A minister for her input and to direct a question to her that the minister may arrive in his second speech. This question has to do with a case brought by forwardees in the last assembly, and it has to do with the development of public cluster policy. In a government contract, policy is not the norm. Governments in that area outside the section on resource use, innovation, research and development. In the European Union, Norway and Denmark, this ideologies cohesion is a key element in policy development and development, cooperation and development.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this matter that is, as many have tried ahead of me, very important and must discuss. It is, however, excitedly bent. The aim is to have food security and security, quite in use in a short time. I'm gonna tear this down and talk about vegetables. The local agricultural market is changing and is growing rapidly as the international growth is increasing in international tourism. Indicative production does not fully increase demand. I think there is no reason for domestic manufacturers to fear a modest increase in import, since Icelandic products are fully competitive in the quality and good and have shown it. According to the recent European Union Convention, the import of agrienvironment schemes is expected to increase substantially, and the Ministry of Agrienvironment schemes are now under review of the implementation of such import wastes. In this work consumer interests need to be guided by prices and products. A fine example of the success of the national production and import is the gardening and vegetable industry. It is now some 15 years since customs on certain types of vegetables, more specifically on tomatoes, aguar, and paprits, were virtually decompositioned. As a result, the price of vegetables to consumers decreased substantially as the domestic product has increased substantially during this time, even though it is not fully competitive. There, consumers'quality and choice play in. In those days too, gardeners have been especially concerned with developing new ones and sharing knowledge with one another. [[The president calls.]] For example, in connection with knowledge, there may be lost opportunities to do even better in certain breeding species. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is one of the factors that it is important to become an overview of the agricultural review group, i.e. The practicality of taking up crops due to such cropd gardening products, car tables, then to the possible reduction or breakdown of toll protection, and again, guided by consumer interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u55	Madam President. This is a very important matter that we discuss, the Minister's and the government's policies on food security and food security in Iceland. This has only been the source of antibiotics, the use of growth-gain materials, and other things we're so lucky to be free from our production. Not only do we have enough access to good water but we do not have to go everywhere in the world. The Mediterranean Sun, where the vegetables are cultivated that we import, is not too much of a supply of water. It's good to let your mind wander in that relationship, but about 75 litres of water are behind a quart of fruit juice, i.e. from culture to production. I also think it's worth looking at a minister's policy on changing the food import rules, how it affects the survival of farmers, the products, whether we're talking about the meat or the milk. This has a major impact on rural areas. What are real goals by importing food? It has been said that we have more variety of selections and, at some point, perhaps a lower price. If we think this whole thing, are farmers likely to have significantly reduced toll protection? Should we also improve the monitoring to follow the requirements for food import diseases? There is no findable check, not just on paper, but on public sample. We need a much more close surveillance. I'd like to ask a minister about laws on animal travel requirements. Orders must be put in place. I'm asking if she's started something at her table. Of course, this is a very short time. I would also have wanted to discuss the ellipse on an imported salad ten times higher than the one in the country. We're here with the World Peace World, which is at the top of 10 on the list of the world's most interesting tomatoes producers. They sell goods from tomatoes and sell food every day, received 135 yous. Visitors last year. [[The president calls.]] I have to say, we need to ask ourselves, " What are we going to achieve in the agricultural sector? ' [[The president calls.]] Should we support domestic production so that it can withstand competition, including those of the United States and the United States? ... witha residenceasa side support for tourism? We need to remember the review that farmers'income has been replaced or even reduced in comparison with other articles in recent years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u56	Madam President. Thus, a prime duty of the State, the government, and the government at any given time is to ensure the internal and outer security of the people of the land. I think more and more people are becoming aware, not only in Iceland, but also in other countries, that there is no breaking of food security when it involves the safety of the citizens. The government's policy when it comes to food production must take into account other national security factors. It's one of the first duties of the government. However, the security of food is not only to ensure an adequate supply of food at any given time but also to ensure that the product available is what it is said to be; it is wholesome and healthy; it does not put the health of the people in danger for long periods of time. I believe that we need to discuss a sharing of food security with our health system and the health - care costs, which are increasing and become one of the greatest challenges the budget will face in the coming years, to finance the health system. There, access to healthy food will be one of the key elements of the nation's public health. [[The president calls.]] If we are going to be effective in these activities, we will be at the highest level. Agricultural minister's role in this area is vital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u57	President. I wanted to mention only the environmental impacts of carnivore. Studies show that it emits 80 to 90% less greenhouse gases, uses 99% less land space, and 82 to 96% less water than animal production. These figures are enormous in view of the global production of factories. We don't have that kind of production in Iceland, and there's a huge opportunity. The industrial production is a growth of antibiotics, disappears, and is replaced by eco-friendly production. Our agriculture is a very eco-friendly product. There will certainly be a demand for such production, although mostly meat - producing. I also wanted to mention the energy security associated with this, because the production of food always requires energy, oil even. We also have an opportunity here in Iceland because we could be independent of oil as energy; we're not there yet, so there's definitely a way. We use, for example. 700 to 800 yards. 250 ounces of oil this year. the ton of your car, about 150 of you. a ton of the boat fleet, so we have tremendous opportunities in this environment. I'm going to predict the need for agrienvironment schemes to disappear, that the production will be self-sustained in the unique conditions that we have around the agricultural system. [[The president calls.]] The way of the sea, I think, would not be as good out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for starting this discussion about food safety and food production, both persistent and controversial in the community. We are close to the local food supply. All of us are familiar with good commercial agricultural products. The United States has often been falsely accused of being an enemy of farmers and even of speaking holes in the country. This isn't right. However, our general focus on agriculture has been to abandon the present problem of long - lived survival and the defeat of this fine class of service. However, we as superiors stress that the community's support for the article is conditional with the requirement for practical land use, animal choice, sustainable and environmental protection and that we look to the experience of other nations. A respectable president. I allow myself in connection with this discussion to call attention to a recent report and cooperation plan by the Norwegian Minister, which covers the year 2020 and involves food safety. The field is fishing, fishing, farming, forestry, and food production. The North countries have a wide range of strengths, but in all countries these factors are of great importance to the economy and the North countries are responsible for working on sustainable use of their organic resources. As consumers, we have strict food requirements. It should be beneficial, ensuring good and safe food to consumers. Therefore, the Norwegian countries want to expand existing cooperation, including for animal travel, consumer education, food management, and feeding policies. At that time, the North countries will increasingly use their combined strengths to achieve the Norwegian interests of international and international highways. This teamwork program and these steps are to be welcomed. This is another rose in a buttonagat Norse cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u59	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the senators and the highest. Minister for taking part in this discussion, but I'm sorry that the senators of Birts'future had been unable to do so today, just as yesterday did. The rest of us can probably read about their agrienvironmental policy on the category's homepage. But that's right. Councilmen and ministers have mentioned here today, this is an extremely extensive discussion and a lot of work to do. Sadly, we have not been able to get as much detail into various aspects of our discussion as we would have liked to do. I suppose I would like more special discussions about food production thereafter. Listening to this is very helpful and interesting. I want to thank you especially why. paritaprevir Leví Björn for information on carnivores. I need to get better involved. And I'd like to thank the senators as well. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for mentioning climate, water, and other items that we need to take into account when discussing food production. We're not just talking about people getting goods, sure goods, but always at the lowest price. We have to watch the big picture, the climate, we have to watch things like carbon tracks. We know that there is a greater number of them when we feed from country to country. Of course, we shouldn't if we can produce the same product on the land. Of course, we should consider these matters. Also food waste. These are popular things right now, important things. We need to look at food production in the context of climate, the recovery of wetlands, and other aspects that we need to consider. The Tolla Convention on the EU It is of great importance how governments implement that agreement. I'd like to say that dinner auction is the only way to get the right price. [[The president calls.]] That profit comes to the State, not unnecessary for immigrants and small dealers. I'm the highest. A minister to pay particular attention to the development of the customs agreement. He's all right, but the export is key.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u60	Madam President. I appreciate the discussion today. I think it's very positive how it works. Although we have not been able to deal with all the factors mentioned by the prejudicial authorities, many of the members of Parliament came near to this agricultural discussion. My point is that I'm going to take part in more discussions on these important issues. Let's go over this for a minute. This is about increasing the freedom of farmers. We're gonna do it. Keep the land use safe. Yeah. The animal tour. Yeah. We're going to secure the ground structure. That's what we're gonna say. We will take a special look at food safety policies. We all agree on these vital points. Hv. Egilsdóttir And I think that's pretty clear, including. In connection with a meeting I had this morning with the heads of the delegates from Matis, there is an opportunity to consider setting up a land product's warehouse. We set up a flier for greater wealth in the agricultural sector, and thus we could continue to count. I was also asked about competitiveness, about the provision of agricultural laws: Yes, we will examine them specifically, including working on grounds that are transparency and equality. We want to ensure goods for consumers at fair market prices, and we want to make it possible for new and smaller manufacturers to compete in equal terms with larger markets. All of this must be looked at. Of course, we must be careful. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said just now. We Icelanders are in a position to do things right, to do things together in behalf of farmers, in behalf of the environment, and in behalf of consumers. If we walk slowly but know what our goals are, I will not fear that we will not have one of the best agricultural policies in Europe, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u61	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, from a major health committee. The last legislation panel was adopted at the General Assembly of 116/2016, on a change in social security law, No. 100/2007, Social Services Act, No. 99/2007, No. 125/1990. The law came into force on January 1, 2017, and it included extensive changes in the social security system, especially in pensions. Cells That Become the Law No. 116/2016, to a large extent, based on proposals for reimbursement of social security laws, often attributed to the late Pétur Blöndalur. The primary objective of the change was to simplify the pension insurance system, to increase the rights of those who had earned no or no rights in the pension system, and to increase the potential for flexibility at the end of their retirement and the origin of pension. It is safe to state that with the approved law, a large and important stage in the global review of the social security laws has been established, a review will continue during this terms. The Social Security System is another two-secure insurance system set up here by law. The role of a social security system is mainly to ensure that those who are due need compensation for old age and disability. According to the Social Security Act, therefore, the principle that all the taxable income of the carer's carer affects the money to improve the social security process as well as paying on social assistance laws. This is made clear at 2 mgr. Section 16. The law. In particular, these are incomes of jobs, pension payments, and capital pay. Three and four. Section 16. On the other hand, the law is listed as some intentional waivers from the principle given under which income should not be calculated in calculating benefits, despite the principle presented in 2 mg. Social security, as well as government social support, are forms of income that are excluded from calculating benefits. With law No. 116/2016 patients included converted to Article 16. Act on social security. After the law was published, it was found that by the processing of the bill, an error was encountered, so that the new generation of pensions had been improved by 17. And the money for sale, as measured by 48th and 56th. Law on social security, had moved to 3 mg. Section 16. where, including Pays from related job-related pension funds are specified. However, these reform groups were to be moved to 4 mg. 16th Gr., but they don't include pension payments. So the Lawgiver intended that the same rule should apply to the calculation of pension and the provision of money, along with the deposit of biofuels. In contrast, 3 mgr. Section 16. The law, which also stands out in the name of the law. Pays from pension funds, income calculations, merely to account for the calculation of microenergy pensions, so called basic pensions for disability. Thus, a human error has taken place only after the law had become valid in spite of the overwhelming superiority and lecture of many parties. This mistake must now be corrected. If not, this could lead to payment from the pension system being excluded from the calculation of the new pension and provision money, but this is not in harmony with the Lawgiver's will. That will be shown in the law, especially in a paper with the bill that became the law No. 116/2016, which says, by permission of the president: It is designed to make a complete difference over all the incomes of a pensioner, away from the type of income, with few appeals. It suggests that all of the money of the pensioner's pension is equally relevant to the calculation of the pension, to the loss of income by 45%, and to the loss of the individual incomes. It says in another place, by permission of the president: In the future, certain types of revenues, such as the pay of special pensions and the financial assistance of rural society, are expected to be excluded from the calculation of the revenue target. There's no mention of the payments made from pensions, but it wasn't intended to eliminate them from the calculations of the new pension from social security. If it had been the intention of the legislature to separate these payments from the calculation, it would be reasonable to assume that both in general remarks and in commentes on pars. The law, not to mention the cost of finance and the Ministry of Economics, would have included a major change in pensions in terms of the role of social security, and would also lead to a vast increase in government spendings far beyond what is expected in this year's budget. Therefore, in support of this, I would also like to point out that in the bill's report that shows the money of nursing social security to individuals with pension funds before and after law-change, it is clearly shown that the payment of pensions and home satisfactions is reduced by increasing payments from pensions, which is a key factor in the priorities and sharing of the two most important pension insurance system on which has been established here. This is also made clear in the assessment of the economic impact of the bill including It is stated that increasing rights to payment from the pension system are less effective in terms of social security. Finally, I'd like to mention that in the Commission's proposal to reevaluate the social security laws on which the bill is based, it is obviously assumed that pension funds will affect the calculations of the new retirement team. A respectable president. I think that it must be agreed that the legislatures of the legislature were responsible for the calculation of pensions and provisional funds under social services law. Does it matter about any income, including payments from the pension fund, except for the indiscriminate exceptions now listed in section 4. Section 16. Social Security. So it is important that the lawgiver responds quickly and corrects the error even now, as expected in the bill, so that no one needs to question what is the right thing to do about it. It is necessary to adjust the value of those who had gained the right to a pension or a provision of money for the past year when the law of No. 116/2016 gained value, but also after that, even though they may be able to apply for social security later on to government insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u62	Madam President. I had thought I'd come here to ask why. A senator to see how much this correction would cost a government fund. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator said it was the other way around that it would be costing him not to correct this. Since this took place on January 1, what has taken place so far is interesting. It is also mentioned in the report that the law should be applied at the same time as the law of No. 116/2016 valid, i.e. 1st January 2017. Then I'm curious to know: Was it generally a popular idea to accept laws that have function back in time? The third point: Now this issue comes from a major health committee, and I'm curious about the procedure in this. Now I'm new and I'm learning things, but I feel that this correction should have come from a minister. I'm asking if it can only be attributed to why it comes from a major health committee rather than from a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u63	First, I want to say, it's great that you can make mistakes, since you don't know what's going on in the room, but I don't. For questions about the amount of money, it is obvious in my language that this amount of money was not expected. According to what we have, it would have been a billion. As to why the matter comes to us on the committee, I can only say that the Ministry came to us to work on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u64	Madam President. I thank you for these excellent answers, a little striking, of course. But there was no answer. 2 about whether it was customary to accept existing laws. Now I understand that these mistakes need to be corrected, and it is a very good matter to correct them. The question is, How did this come to the first is quite interesting, but that is another matter. Of course, mistakes should be corrected. I'm just trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u65	I'm sorry I missed the second question. The answer is that when it comes to us - these are mistakes that had gone through a number of hands, including the welfare committee, which passed on to this law last year, all reviews went through. It's an expression in the law that doesn't appear until this happens -- I don't remember what an institution it is, it's an error in the text of legislation, I'm sorry, it's the Ministry that found the failures, I'm sorry, I apologize. [[Set up on: health insurance.]] [[It's up to you: No, government insurance agencies.]] This kind of mistake doesn't happen often, I can't answer it. [["No... "]] I'm new like you. It's the first time I've ever dealt with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u66	Madam President. I'd like to continue with the discussion of retrospective legislation. I feel very suspicious if the law is to be restored. I see that, according to a report, a certain indiscriminate exception in the law is to be removed over time. In other words, the natural exception is that income from a pension fund does not mean a decrease in pension. These are certain expectations, legitimate expectations that old - age pensioners have been able to achieve so far. This is our mistake and the failure of the institutions we had that will lead to their failure to receive the right payment. Retrospective fixation which adversely affects its population, i.e. if people have legitimate expectations to be in favor of rights, they cannot resist the redemption of legal laws. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: What are the arguments of the senator's decision to restore these laws? Does she feel that this is against the redefinement of legalization?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u67	As discussed earlier, this is a mistake regarding things that had been reviewed over and over again. You can't talk about expectations in that relationship. I understand, in conversation with a senator who has been here for longer than I, that, in times past, a retrospective law has been made in case of human error. This is it. As I read during a discussion, something was typed wrong and the law had gone through all these hands, reviews, etc. That's where we're talking about stakeholders. One senator noted that there were expectations for a certain payment. They did not make comments at the time, so expectations mentioned are not readily available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u68	A respectable president. Ideas are often based on laws. If the law says that your pension should not be affected by a certain reason, then you can develop legitimate expectations for it. Human error can possibly be a grammatical view in that it is possible to argue that the law can be adjusted. True, a retrospective law can be set, especially if it has positive consequences for those involved. On the other hand, if they have negative consequences or accept favors, they are to be very careful about going to the ground, for they might be in charge of the benefits of the State. It is very important that the head of a constitution and the administration order of the government to have this legalization resumed. This is of great importance to the security of the citizens of the country. It doesn't matter who made that mistake or how many did it. It's a prince of law who must be respected. If we're not going back to law, it's a fundamental idea in our state of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u69	Changes were only published for one day, 24 hours. Princesip, I get it. I get it. A senator is saying so, but I'd like you to read these laws initially as they are stated here without the explanation I've made and talk about expectations to get this payment. Many experts have come to this matter, both stakeholders you mention had expectations, and those who are supposed to protect the money that is not in the budget, and they have concluded that there was never any expectations in this relationship. In view of the opinion: This is a procedure now and it will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u70	President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, where the matter is proposed by a greater proportion of welfare committees. However, under government laws, Ministers decide to evaluate the financial benefits of a prime plant before being presented to the government and the General, according to government procedures. But because this is not the case, there is no need for a minister to follow the cost assessment. When I see, like a dog. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned, a retrospective change, I think that it must be paid back in some way to get less. That's how you go backwards with the law. And with regard to members of the budget board, I would be very interested in seeing the laws on public finances carried out and seeing the cost analysis that is expected to come to the budget. I heard earlier that it was a billion or a billion times, and I didn't quite get it. It would be fine if it were. The head of the committee could explain this a little further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u71	First, I'd like to apologize for addressing you. A member of the 2nd personality. I'm trying to learn into this. This is a huge case coming into my arms and incarcerating the Committee at high speed. It's hard to explain everything. I just want to state that payment has been carried out as planned, as planned. That's all I have to say. We stand for what we should do, but we must correct our mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u72	President. I spoke up because this bill was very quick to take care of in December. So I think that the General himself can make some of the mistakes that were made here as a result of an act of treatment. I think we all owe a good explanation of the consequences of this mistake and how much it will cost us all. If plans were made, were they not paid according to the law? I don't understand. Which is it? Was the law legalized, or was the law to be paid?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u73	Simple answer. It was paid according to the counsellor's will. It was paid, as did the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u74	Madam President. We're about to find a rather large failure in the processing of the bill to correct the change in social security law. The matter was in the process or treatment of the committee for years, but for some reason it came very late into the council. When it finally arrived, it was a great pressure to finish it. I participated in the second round of that treatment in October last year. But it is so often that much pressure and much time pressure are put on so many matters. The senators did not have much time to look at the bill properly so that understanding would be a good one. It is a very complicated system, and considering the extent of the case, it would have taken much more time to resolve it. Yet, it turns out that an enormous and expensive mistake was in the bill that no one noticed and now has to correct. I don't think I can correct this mistake. However, more than one part of the Committee suggests changing the legal rights of sensibilities to the altruism and then hastening the case through the same hand reverse work as the original law. It's an amateur I can't participate in. Now, this retrospective correction should be accelerated, without sufficient evidence that retrospective correction does not have a burdensome effect on the pensioner and without being assured whether this will last over the constitution. When people get sued by insurance agencies, the state will not hesitate to take the money back. Now that people have been paid too little, they must change their legal rights again rather than pay for their mistakes. The person's right to the state is no one. I don't think that it should probably be that the interests of the state always dribble the interests of the public. Clearly, experts'opinion is needed to discuss whether a planned change, especially the restoration of the law, meeting its constitution, or possibly creating an improvement in the state of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u75	V.E.G. President. In fact, that does not mean saying in one word that mistakes are being corrected and that the law is being changed under pressure. Mistakes are mistakes. This is exactly the same as if it had accidentally been printed in any of the tracks, one 0 or two 0's are printed in addition to what was supposed to be. We'll see exactly what the lawgiver was doing. The text of the law is wrong. He needs to be corrected. It is not about having any expert at all; it is about correcting our mistakes. We're doing it. People do it backwards. So is Holland. It's not complicated. Therefore, it is right to do and do it immediately, because no one had legitimate expectations for something else. We are not repeating ourselves to someone who had right, for the court was not there. It was a mistake. That's the point. I'd kind of like to know if it's a problem. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, whom I accidentally called Hugrún the other day, disagrees with me on that. It's a very simple law, both in Iceland and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u76	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson for his remark and for explaining his understanding and vision of this matter. I'm not a lawyer. I think it's most important to point out the work that's going on in this house, this council. So this is a mistake that happens when things are rushed through, and people don't have time to look into things properly, and it's all coming out. I find it so strange that the state should not take responsibility for such mistakes because if the State doesn't have to take responsibility, these practices will continue indefinitely and that won't change anything. When are we to take responsibility for this and start changing things so that these things do not happen again?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u77	V.E.G. President. Of course you can. It hurts when these mistakes happen, but they always happen from time to time. This responsibility - yes, they are to shoulder responsibility. But that does not happen by paying 5 billion from a common fund to people who didn't even get it, never expected it, never calculated it, and had no expectations for it. So the responsibility cannot be involved in paying the two months from a wealth of 5 billion. I'll never be a part of it. Admittedly, it is something special that the mistakes of the law have overlooked so many. The only explanation I know about this is that it was never under consideration, and there was always the possibility that it should be this way. The reviews had nothing to do with this because they always assumed that the funds from pensions would be withdrawn, that's always been the case. It would have been a huge turn of events, just as it was then in the law of error. I see it this way, it's just a simple mistake. We'll fix them. Let's learn from them. That's very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u78	Madam President. As I said, I truly am living up to the fact that this mistake will be corrected. I don't feel comfortable correcting again. But I understand that we will have further opinions and visitors to the Committee, which is very good. Perhaps something will appear where my opinion will change. But as the situation is right now, I feel uncomfortable because I don't feel that it's right to do it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u79	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss matters where we need to correct mistakes that took place in the processing of the bill on a change in social security law that became the law of the New Year's Eve. We need to present this matter and more of it. This is what the welfare committee now does. I would like to state that this is the will of the Lawgiver and the will of the Lawgiver is very clear in the report and all comments on the subject. The welfare committee last fall. I would also like to state in this brief talk that in the discussion, the matter, despite the mistakes that took place, should not be forgotten. It was 2013 that a team was appointed to prepare for changes in social security laws. If I have the correct time line, these laws were in progress for about one second. three years. Unfortunately, there will be an error in the writing of the bill that occurs at the Ministry of Health, then the case will only pass through the procedure at the council, and this error will be revealed in the drive of older and present law. Then some digestion will come up and show that this is not exactly what it should be. I agree with what they say. The members of the council here have spoken that it is important to invite visitors to what is happening. The welfare committee. If I get it right, they'll do it tomorrow or Friday. I will not stand in the way that the matter will go. The welfare committee. It is very important to note, too, that perhaps the reason why the mistake did not come up even because no comments from the sources were discussed in this article of the law. About the whole storyr, huh? Councilmen and others involved were saying that the attention was not there but was responding to the comments received to the committee. We just have to learn from this. Let's call a specialist and a partner on the subject. Let us take a material discussion when it comes to the subject. A welfare committee and then make a personal decision about what we want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u80	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for clarifying her case. Because she said that there was no time pressure on the case, I'd like to ask about it. I am quite aware that the case was worked over a very long time. My understanding of this is that the matter is very late for the council. I came here in October and worked with other members of Congress on the case, but during the time I felt that everyone had a lot of time under pressure, it just had to be done, let's go, because it was the end of Congress, and people didn't have the proper time. The senators even came up here in a pit and talked about how they just didn't understand. I'm just thinking about this because there may be some reason why no one saw this mistake, we all might have overlooked it somehow, and if such an elaborate matter had not had to come to the council sooner and get some more time to pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u81	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for her counter-regument. You're right. A senator says, the matter is very late in the General Assembly after a tremendous amount of preparation in the past few years. Not to be overlooked, too, is the fact that this matter went into an open discussion before it came to the Generals, on the welfare board, where the stakeholders and everyone were free to post comments on the subject. I readily admit that a particular pressure took place to finish the matter and to agree with it. But there was no comment, not from any hearer who turned to this law. Despite a lot of time pressure, if any, into a leg. The welfare committee of the last autumn committee was very careful about all the comments that were received, and work was in line with responding or taking a stand on them. I'm sure if there had been a review from someone or a number of people who would have something to say and send in a review, if anything had happened to this article, it would have been responded. But this was never the subject of question. The welfare committee last fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying a little bit. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson, who I believe was referring to my law degree in the Netherlands just before in a pant, since he once again likened correction of this error to correcting two 0's in a song that would have accidentally entered there. In this context, I would like to point out that there are considerably more than two zeros that went wrong in this adjustment. If we just watch the bill we have here, there are changes to a total of at least eight excerpts in which five or six words are replaced. Zero here or it's not the main thing at all. It is a matter of the city's being able to read the laws of the land and know what they will expect. It's not like old age pensions. It's just a whole different thing. This is not a question of some sort of inspirational error. It's definitely a bigger problem than that. Apparently, there are bigger mistakes that have occurred than that someone accidentally pushed zero twice in place of one time or what it is. In the case we're discussing right now, we know that the TM didn't do the law. She respected the lawgiver's will, but as we may all know in this room, the lawgiver's will will will will no more, i.e. No more legal requirements are reported. This time we hear at council that the insurance center has not legalized, that lawgiver made a mistake, that the insurance center has made a mistake, and that now it is intended to cover these errors of the lawgiver by establishing a retrospective law without giving any reasons why it is in accordance with a constitution, and that is in order. I feel somehow that this law should just slide through, a respectable president, that it should be put back again and again. There is no logic in this series of articles with this bill on why the law is put backtraced. It's only shown that the law is in again. The director of the case is not clear that it is not just a snapling law and needs some sort of logical support for why we put the law back in the past two months. There is no reasoning in the case of the case. I am deeply concerned about any retrospective legislation not even being reasoned because it is always a serious intervention when the attorney decides to restore law back in time. We do not seem to have difficulty in deciding the intention of legalization for members of Parliaments and a variety of other backs, but when it comes to the rights of a pensioner, we are going to make it a point of view that we choose to take from those indiscriminate exceptions that are found in current law and have not been respected by the National Insurance Center. We've heard that it costs us 5 billion. It may just be a costly mistake to protect our legal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u83	The president wants to counsel the senator that Icelandic is the matter of this council and asks the senators to stick with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u84	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by correcting the senator over time, the insurance center is not in this case. No one's getting paid from the Insurance Center, but that's different. I think the misunderstanding in this discussion is that we're changing the law over and over again, i.e. That we have some transformation that is repetitious and burdensome. That's not the point. The point is, we're correcting a mistake. It doesn't matter if there are two 0's, one 0 or six 0's, we're just fixing the mistake. That is the point, and it has often been legalized that mistakes are corrected, and no one sees us as changing the law in a physical way. There's no physical change on the way, just fixing the mistake. The material, the purpose, and the will of the Lawgiver were always ahead of us. This is the point. That's what this is about. Educating advice on feedback and something just doesn't apply to it. That's the problem. We can argue over this law forever, but that's just not the point. It's just a simple correction of mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the correction of my mistakes. It's certainly what we're talking about. We're just arguing about law in this room here, we're making laws, and we've got to be able to argue forever about law, right? That's what we do every day as I know the most. I'm sure it's a matter of time for me to correct this mistake. I don't think it's a good idea to fix them over again. No one's talking about zero and not zero in this context. It's just a very detailed change. In this case, I have not had sufficient reasons why it is justified to correct the error over time. So let's just correct it from now on, no problem, but I don't think I can accept a retrospective adjustment unless there's a detailed evidence to support it for a constitution and that it doesn't cause the state to be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u86	V.E.G. President. It is a little strange to hear in another word that this is a mistake that is all right to correct, but in the other word, that they should not be corrected again. That's what I'm talking about. So a senator would say that we, the taxpayers of this country, are now to pay 5 billion to people who have been paid from pension funds? These are the ones who may be best off those who get something out of their social security because of these mistakes. Is that what the senator is saying? Is the senator so little about taxes that he thinks it's all right to do this, that the mistake that the senator has already admitted to being there should only cost the five billion taxpayers? Is that okay with the senator? I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u87	A respectable president. It is all right to correct mistakes, and they are not necessarily to correct things again, as I have been saying. I'm not necessarily saying we should pay off this 5 billion. I'm saying I don't like to agree with this until it's clear that we won't later have to pay this five billion after this case goes to the courts, that we won't be an added duty to those who may have legitimate expectations in accordance with these guidelines. We're gonna go for a second. A senator cannot sit down alone in judgment about this. We are not necessarily the most qualified individuals to determine whether or not to do so. We're talking about a general prince who is saying that there should not be repeated laws that can lead to burdensome consequences for those who suffer them. Sometimes it is just a matter of standing up for the sake of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u88	A respectable president. This case came on the welfare board as soon as it was discovered. There's been a discussion for years, as noted earlier, about changes in the social security system. This may reflect a little bit, and the reason why this mistake is happening is that we always talk about older citizens and desperate ones in the same case, which we may just want to stop. That work was always run together in this case, and then she was separated at the end after that long process. This may explain, or is a possible reason for this mistake to occur. If we all examine preparatory data for these legislations, they will indicate that the system is now as an insurance agency has paid off under the first two months of the year. Then she paid in line with what all the preproduction work was done for the new social security system, as the legal evidence assumes the social security system should be, all calculations are expected and the budgets of this year. This year's budget assumes that the law is the way we are going to correct it. This mistake was not made until recently because the Law was first published. So there is no evidence or anything that gave anyone legitimate expectations of getting something more from a government fund than he has just received in the past two months. That is why we react immediately here, correct human mistakes that can always occur in spite of everything, plans, and insurance, and what is called all of them. So the matter is clear, and the General has expressed himself under financial laws as to whether this is the case. I don't think we need any lengths of paint or any discussion about the feedback of law, or not because there was no evidence on the case that made legitimate expectations about anything else. Everyone agreed this should be the way it should be. Then there's a whole other debate that has nothing to do with this case whether it should be paid somehow differently in social security. The discussion will just have to take it later. She doesn't mean here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u89	President. Now I want to do it. A senator only explained what I thought I heard here, but he mentioned that the law was fresh. Did they not come into force on January 1? When exactly did the law appear, and when was the new law due to be performed on January 1?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u90	A respectable president. I can't remember the exact date, when the collection of laws was updated. But that's just how it is, and it's always been that the collection is updated twice a year. The law is approved here. After the Council has approved, the law must be won and created foreboding, and the Law is updated twice a year. It appears on the General Assemblyis website, in the Law Museum, when the law was updated. That's the way it is, and it's always been.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u91	President. According to the constitution, the legislation should be published and the method of publication and implementation of the laws valid for the country. When the law was accepted here at the council, we knew its contents. When it is due to take effect on January 1, we should expect to know everything about the content of the laws that were taking effect. Being updated in a law set twice a year is not likely to affect their values from January 1, if I understand that correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u92	A respectable president. Certainly - and that's exactly what we're pointing to in this matter - all the legal data is presented as social data. So you can puzzle it together and read what the legislature's will is and what the law is like. If the bills and the rest of the total law are agreed unchanged from the council then you can see what they'll look like in the library when it is updated. Since all the legal data in this matter were dealing with the loss of a pension fund of 45% as well as any other income, no one noticed that the sentence was in 3 mg. Section 16. not 4 mg. That's the mistake. It's just more complicated to see it when it's uncool and the law has not been published.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u93	Madam President. I made an answer just because I wasn't quite familiar with all the incidents involved. Now that I have been listening to the discussion, as well as having excellent conversations, I understand a little better, so I have to sort out a little bit of what has been presented, including. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's challenge, that it's not natural that the law is changing over again, which I mentioned earlier, but it gave quite a better argument than I did. On this basis, when the law is adjusted once again and when tradition develops, the tradition of continuing to do so is also created. As we know, there are a lot of traditions in this council, and maybe it's good not to make any new ones. This is one of the problems. But the other thing is, it's obviously very important that these things be fixed quickly, and I'm not going to stand in the way of that. This is the cost I heard 5 billion earlier. That's a huge cost. If that is for the less than two months, it will cost a lot over the year in general. Of course, fix it. The other thing is, it's interesting to think that pretty often it happens to the institutions of the state, including... On top of that, the U.S. Department of Insurance and, in fact, the Bank of Students and others, paid some things out of excess of what is to be paid out. Then, as soon as the mistake is discovered, their recipients are immediately paid back the money. It doesn't matter whether those who received the money made mistakes or the agency itself. Usually it is the organization that makes such a mistake. Still, the person who got the money is paid. Why is it not the opposite in this case when the Council makes mistakes, the Ministry makes mistakes, when, in fact, a very large number of people in the process made mistakes? Why is it impossible for us to accept that this mistake was expensive, but it is an expensive mistake that really exists? It's a prince, you don't put a retrospective law that's burdensome to people. I think that there is a reason for the state's fund to take this offense, even though it doesn't seem like anything from the viewpoint of reducing the debt and so forth. Yet, it is not desirable for the state to owe more money. But it's still a prince's case. We're not supposed to change the law over again. This may just be a reminder to take a slow, positive look at matters for the future and to do things properly. At the end of the day, there is not some law code, some paper with a bill for a song, which applies to the law itself. He's the one that counts. We have to accept that if he does not have a careful look at it, there will be a big mistake. We're going to fix the law fast and fast, but let's not give up the legal rule in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u94	A respectable president. I wanted to first correct what I said earlier about this having been approved in the year December; it was approved in the air in October before election. Better be clear. Generalis's orders were to allow this rate of speech to be replaced by what was in December with just a few days. Yet, there could have been more days. Another thing I'm going to do in a speech or two. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Árnason's son is in charge of the production of law change. This is something that I've been really uncomfortable with, reading through a change of law. In view of the total law, you have no context. In that case, it may be very difficult to handle the law by hand in order to actually see what the Law has done. You often need to ask members or others to get the whole law before and after adjustments so that you can compare them. I'd really like to use this opportunity to join the council in improving the production of laws so that you can always see the bigger picture, always see what the laws are for change and after them so that you can take into account the law and the overall change. That is really what I would like to share in this talk. In view of this mistake, such simple changes in production can prevent billions of dollars from being damaged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u95	Madam President. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place here on this big deal. I just want to take a moment to read again what this mistake was, just so that we're all in on how crystal clear it is. With law No. 116/2016 patients included converted to Article 16. Act on social security. After the law was published, it was found that during the work of the bill, an error occurred, showing that a reference to the new generation of pension according to 17. Steps, as well as allowances given at 48th and 56th. Law on social security, had gone to 3 mg. 16th gro, where even Pays from related job-related pension funds are specified. However, this team of reforms was to move to 4 mg. 16th Gr., but they don't tell you the pay from Pension Funds, unlike 3mg. Thus, the Lawgiver intended that the same rule applies to the calculation of pensions along with the spending of disability donors and provisional funds, whereas 3 mg had the same rule. Section 16. The law, which also stands out in the name of the law. Pays from pension funds, calculating improvements, merely doing the calculations of microenergy pensions, so called basic pensions for disability. I'm as good as understanding this, but when I read it myself without an explanation. It showed that the work of the law was made a mistake. Understandably, I wish it hadn't happened, so I don't have to stand here and accept the responsibility that comes with the use of public funds that we need for so many of our necessary jobs. We're talking about 5 billion. I feel the burden of the responsibility I shoulder here as head of a welfare committee. I would like to have more time to discuss that, more time to get more opinion. If I could say this in human terms, which these laws aren't on, unfortunately, I'll consider this matter so that if we start playing with it, we'll treat the public money a little bit like Lotto money. There's some money that wasn't meant to be paid off. It's money we need into our health system. This is the money we need on our university system. It's money we can't miss - I'm sorry I speak human language again - the back door when we have to look forward. I would love to not have to stand here and speak for returning the law, but I see nothing except the responsibility I have as a human being responsible for public money and the general prince I've talked about who are defending public money for what it needs and for those who need it. I want to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u96	Madam President. I recommend a synonym to the assessment of media activity outside the capital area and to ensure their status. That the case is with me. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Rór Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölfsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Einarsson Brynfjölótir, Arnardóttir Arnardótir, Eygló Harðardóttir Hardborndótir, Gólänsson Brjánsson Brignisson, Logiasson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Njáll Friðbertsson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide an education and cultural minister to order a team of workers to evaluate the activities and status of the media that are operating outside the capital area and to offer suggestions that include methods and ways to promote and secure the status of national media so that they can take over their democratic, cultural, information and educational role. The Minister of Education and Culture sees the staff for jobs and pays the cost of their jobs. The staff will submit their report and proposals no later than November 1, 2017 According to many estimates, the media that operates outside the capital area, in difficult working conditions that prevent them from fulfilling their role as desirable. Transporters of this proposal think that since the free and varied media are amongst those which democracies can, in the least, be urgent to provide information on the national status of the media and to strengthen their domains where it is needed and given the basis for such support. Congress cases of the same nature as the existing synopsis have previously been proposed before the General Assembly and show evidence that the media status that is operating outside the capital area has been a number of members of the Parliament's minds for some time. However, since it has not been successful to achieve a solidarity to complete these issues with the measures for the multimedia activities of the country, a new study of the status of these cases should be made to improve their outlook. At the 131th legislature, Dagný Jónsdóttir, a senator of the Convention, along with members of all other Parliaments, suggested a resolution for local media practices. In April 2005, a moving officer spoke for the case and arranged for a higher education committee to send out a statement due to this in early April. Six reviews were received that described a very different opinion on the subject. At the 131th Council of Dagný, Dagricón's Jónsdóttir and her associates were not reimbursed, and they were reassigned to a Council of 132 and 133 C.E. without a final payment. Jón Jónsson, Congressman of the Agency, gave a proposal for the local media resolution in 139. A legislature with its members and members of the Conspiracy and the Left Motion of the Green. At that time, there were eight reviews on the subject that everyone had a positive attitude toward it, but it was not granted to the Board of Education. The above suggested a resolution for the resolution of regional media at 144th, along with other members of the council. It was, in effect, similar to the one that Dagný's Jónsdóttir originally moved. The proposal was not for the treatment of that council, and I didn't propose it last year. The suggested proposal is the same as the above. I also want to be able to inquire about the future of Heiða Helgadóttir, Councilman Bjarts, for Education and Culture Minister of Education at the last Council on Media Strength and Response, which shows that a thorough investigation and analysis of the media's operating environment is essential for the beginning and basis of sponsors for the media in order to promote their multiplicity and work against the integration of the media markets. In 2005, when Dr. Dagný Jónsdóttir proposed a local press resolution, public reports were presented, a report by the Director of Education on the Icelandic press, which was the product of committee action that was carried out after Iceland's president denied the validation of the law of No. 48/2000, radio change, No. 5 / 1, No. 8/1993. The main focus of the report is the media work environment in general and their importance for democracy, free communication, information and cultural and political diversity, which also led to the translation of regional media such as regional and regional newscasts and public obligations to such activities. The importance of free media is mixed with the mind - boggling knowledge of the world around us and the understanding of it to a large extent depends on the news of the media and their other coverage. The national media and media that operate outside the capital area play a role in ensuring the essential diversity of democratic discussions and communications, which have many views and will be the basis for stand and decision making. The design and independence of editors and journalistism are generally accepted as basic candidates for the support of media activities as well as for a medium to publish a broad array of editorials but not just an advertising medium. Official support for media activities can be done in a variety of ways, but it is important that support is provided so that it does not affect the editorial policy of the source. Support may include volume of distribution, which was used in some parts of the world while printing was widely controlled, but much less following the spread of the media. In many cases it is now advisable to achieve targets by granting grant to the media by supporting the production of materials produced by the member of the media, and by censoring itself, this is thought to be a loss of support for the medium's operating capacity over the long term, promoting diversity, independent management, and mismanagement of the editors. Among the things that have marked the development of the media in recent years and decades is the possession of media and chemical groups less than ever. There have been huge media conglomerates that operate on a global market. This trend is debated and its impact on the exchange of information and culture, in which many feel that there is less effort and that there is insufficient influence in the media. Under these circumstances, the importance of local media, which is part of the community, becomes even greater than that of the outside world. Official funding for the media is practiced in the North countries, and it is constantly emphasized that such support contributes to the diversity of the servers and their independence. In Norway, the Medietilstynet hosts the press. There is now a committee called the Mediemingfold Sulvget - I apologize to you in advance for the Norwegian language here. It discusses how public support can be used to ensure the greatest diversity of the Norwegian Media market. They are expected to submit their findings and suggestions in the spring of 2017, i.e. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. In Denmark Medielvnet is responsible for media operations, but in Sweden this role is Prestadsnämnden. In view of the dramatic changes that have taken place in the media in recent years and decades, it is hoped that this important aspect of democracy has been discussed in the North countries. Here, only a few recent Norwegian reports and articles on changes in the media work environment and the value of official support for the article to guide the work to be done if this synonym is approved. In Norway, the report Pressepolitikveveved et tusenårsskifte. The 2010 newspaper report Lett arrived at Orde, unshelled at hørt - en mderne mestøtte. Marketing Authorisation Holder (Utred) et ústg únnnevt av Kulturdementet den 19 October 2009. December 16th, 2010. In fact, as its name suggests, the main subject is for official support to the media. In 2011, the Denmark edition Demokratøtte published. Fremidiens Offentage mestøtte, which was the product of a committee's work appointed by Dana's cultural minister in accordance with a broad agreement by political parties at the Danish Congress in 2006 and in Sweden, is presented in February 2016 by a large media report on the state of the market (Männsko), including a thorough explanation for the role of public support for the Swedish press. In addition, freedom of expression and diversity are accepted and protected in the European Convention of Human Rights, such as 10. Article 11 of the Treaty, as well as the European Union's Convention on Basic Rights, compare with Article 11. As a result, various EU institutions have agreed on recommendations to Member States on free media, activities and environment. The European Union has also provided a number of tasks aimed at ensuring the status and function of the free media and promoting their diversity. As mentioned here, it is worth using new research and research and reviews immediately, and I hope this will finally get some proper coverage and abduction of the Education Committee. It is so important for democracy that the free media can support professional and informative coverage and reporting. Therefore, I believe it is the obligation of the government to make sure that their independence is protected, as well as editorial freedom. In effect, we need to make sure that the media's operating conditions are generally good, for it is our best weapon in fighting corruption. Together with rural society and the growing population in larger areas, it is important that regional media is proper because it is the role of regional media to feed their communities. They play an important role in the information they have on the rural affairs, the institutions, the regional democracy in general, the job world, and other decisions they make, and also give the people the opportunity to express their views, whether in newspapers, TV, or whatever their choices may be. We can't overlook the lack of coverage in the country. The nature of the issue, according to local media, is more than the media. They deal with issues in their own community. It's heavy here, and there's a lot of media here. But after living with regional media, such as the State Radio, which was very powerful when the regional radio was at its time, you felt it, and you sense that it has another approach. Although national television has only returned by having reporters in the country, it is very limited and not acceptable. It's also so important when we think about research and so forth, when we think about the media flora - and I don't think that the media here in the capital area, network media, and other requests for support, I don't believe that the media in the big capital area does not need support, a survey of which would likely reveal such things - but the coverage of the distribution of the territory is, unfortunately, far too small in the other national media. It is also important that the media in the country are used to survive first and last on subscriptions and advertisements. So we know how the trend has been, that has been linked because of the change in media, because there is more access to the Internet and so forth. That is why we need to figure out the best way to support them so that we do not lose them simply being light - eating or advertising mediums in the form of programs and other items distributed in every house, while the magazines or television media, and so on. I can think of a N4 in Akureyri who needs to buy a connection with a competitor in order to be able to distribute his subjects. The environment's a little bit tricky. At the small positions, the media are very often dependent on some of the major people in the area, and the coverage can become more difficult. It is safe to say, since the threads of these individuals are widely available, and therefore the media's contact with stakeholders can raise some questions. That is why it is very important to change. Lander mediators, e.g. Here in the capital area, whether alone or in the State Radio, there are limited space, ability, and interest in caring for the scattered areas. That is why we heard too little of the good things that are happening to us except through - i'm, for example. subscriber to the majority of local news media in my district in order to pay attention. These reports often appear nowhere else. I think we need to try to figure out if in some way we can guarantee their status so that the discussion will be objective and they can be independent of some major people in their territory. Therefore, we as elected representatives need to support the regional services, not look to their death and the services they render away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u97	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir and a messenger of Birks Bjarkey, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for her contribution here. Of course, as an old media dog, if I may use that word, I have a lot of interest in this, and not to be diminished when the old Thomson comes up. I think it's the right way for tourists to think local media play an important role in the media. On the other hand, I think my ideas about how best it is to strengthen and stand a guard and create the foundation needed to run such media may be a little different from or at least an authority. That's why I want to direct the following questions. A senator: Is it correct to understand, or is it that I feel like this? A senator believes that it is a special role of the State to strengthen in a direct way regional media communication, which may have become an out - of - date relative to the trend that is developing in the media because the media may no longer be confined to the media even though they specialize in the news of certain areas? Is it that way. A traveling overseer believes that it should be that the State directly strengthens the financial resources, the financial resources, the management of such media? And if so, how do you feel? A senator assumes that this is done, so what requirements are there for the media? And so on. And another thing that I might find that in my second answer, it comes to the way the State Radio is affected by the public media market and how the Kingdom Radio influences the development and status of the local media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. To begin with, perhaps, let us say: Of course, the group is assigned to find out which roads are best. I'm not going in advance to give myself a direct scholarship or something like that is the best way to support the media. Yet, the reports I refer to are one of them. That's why I don't want to rule them out, either. I believe that it can matter for democracy that the kingdom will come to strengthen us. It may be, and I think we should be ready to discuss just various ways, these can be some kind of granting, for example, research. This may involve something in a tax environment, for example. I now declare myself ready to examine any means necessary to help with this. That's why I've been looking especially at national media because many of the parts of the country have been left out in public discussion. I think we're right next door. A senator may not agree in a direct approach to this matter. But it was a financial and business committee, I think only last year, discussing the tax status of a flow service for films in Iceland, TV programs and music, where they were talking about moving it between steps. For example, something like that might be possible. I think we should be open to that. I now believe that the senator believes that as he said, democracy is not the way it would have to be with all the inhabitants of the country. We're doing a job all over the country. We're doing all kinds of communicatives. I think, as I said in my history, they only survive for some kind of support and support, often by members of the community, which are predominant and strands around them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm going to go on. I'm just going to point out: Isn't there something a little wrong with us here in this council hall to emphasize the importance of achieving the free, independent media, which we agree with, but then we expect these same media to be financially dependent on some government agency for survival and business? More important, how can we make sure that the media is free, independent, and their operating base so that it can be run safely without the coming of the government? That's one idea we might be able to think about. It is this: Is it not proper to give to citizens, taxpayers, the real freedom in choosing a media? Is it not true that we change only the approach involved in financing of the State Radio so that each year when we give our tax returns, we choose every radio fee and the capital, the Council, to decide which way it should go, which way it should go? So the inhabitants of Ólausfjörður decide whether to spend their own radio fees on the national radio or to a local media? Or Dalídís, would they rather make sure that North lands are in part released, that part of the radio bill, or all the radio fees run for the publication of this fine paper? [[The president calls.]] And other local media? I think it's something we should talk about, and then we can discuss how healthy an environment in general has been created here for the media and how unhealthy it is, i.e. Unhealthy, but not healthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u100	Madam President. We'll all agree on this too late. I think I'm quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u101	It can't be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u102	Say. It can't be, no. Of course, we've been talking a lot about RUS and all that. Of course, I support the way that it is today, and I want to build a RUSH. However, I have been very open to the fact that RUSH leaves a commercial market. Of course, that means that we must be ready to place more money on the Kingdom Hall. I know we won't quite get together. Of course, we just need to get some analysis of the situation. It's number one, two and three. In this business environment. How it is. And then, of course, each of us can evaluate how healthy or unhealthy we feel about it. So I think it's setting up so that the subject's dependent on the state, financials, or anything like that, it might well be. But then we can also say as I mentioned, e.g. The tax system. If you move it down to the lower level, it's only done once, for example. There is one way that it does not mean that the subject is subject to the State in itself unless the next government decides to move it back between steps. So there are many ways to get out of this. But I think we can agree that in view of the circumstances we've experienced these past few years, we need to support and strengthen both the field and the national media so that we can hear voices everywhere, as possible. It is also sad for those who have been trying to perform this service to see such matters as this being done on another trip, although indeed, the changing process now, because it also turns to TV, not just magazines or nets, if the will of the council is not to support a powerful democratic debate throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u103	Madam President. We will discuss this fine synopsis of the assessment of media activity outside the capital area. I think it's very important to have this proposal taken care of. We agreed at the last council from the former Ministry of Education that a group would be appointed to explore and improve the possibility of the media, but I don't think that proposal directly covers what is presented in this proposal, which is certainly looking at the private media but under very special circumstances around the country. Today, many of these media, local news reports, as well as those with their media on the Internet and in magazine form, are very difficult. I hear from some people that it's just a matter of a month what you really think is going to happen. They'd be visible to the media from the bush. Because they are certainly important, both to the area in question and also to people in the capital area who have access to them networks, perhaps to watch news from their old home and see what is happening in that area. It's just good that all the people of the country can access national media or be subscribed to to the Internet to learn what good things are going on in the country, be able to study the discussion, and how the spirit is, whether it is the culture of that area or the politics, or whatever, things that may not come into the big media but are more important to see that they are important and upbuilding to the local community. National media also strengthens the image of local residents. They reflect the town life and life in the countryside and what's going on, strengthening the self - image of the territory that I think is also very important and needed. Therefore, because these media are extremely difficult to keep out, it would be a great witness to them. There's been a lot of things. The distribution costs and distribution of the corresponding sheet free of charge. Some have tried to do so, just based on advertising, but they have still had a magazine, not just some advertisements and TV programs, as some do in that form. It's a different arm. But humans cannot be hanging on either side of the line indefinitely, being lost, and they cannot quickly run such media if there is a loss. I studied these matters with regard to my situation in the district of which I live and am a member of the Senate. With the permission of the President, I'd like to introduce only a reviewal editor, Magnús Magnússon, made me have what he sent to this private media team, and with his permission to break up ideas about what might come about strengthening the national media well and planning to get a lot of them. He brings up the following: ▪ Make a direct version of the national media that has three or more editors at least Five points for everything. It will be looked forward to support of the Norwegians, who have given the strength to build so that the media can carry out their duties in the country. He noted that a construction agency will be assigned to keep such a structured system in this country and the region will be divided into seven areas, ensuring that all areas will have the media that meets this. Then there's the dealer, Iceland. He noted that in Iceland's Constitution the fee for the distribution of marked magazines to subscribe will never exceed twice the price of similar magazines in a so - called multi-mail. Today, each copy of a subscription magazine is worth ten times as much in distribution as it is distributed in a corresponding multi-mail sheet. Of course, this is a huge difference and a burden to those who are struggling to stay out of such a medium. Men think it's just plain discrimination. Free magazines in Iceland are pretty weak, but with their registration, a company like Iceland has to weigh the life prospects of a magazine selling subscriptions and should therefore be capable of something. The editor takes the Polish on the hill that it is not the job of Iceland's mail to weaken the ground for these national news media. I can totally agree with that. I believe an Iceland source can fully revise this with the Member States. I know he's done it to some extent over the years, but it's better if it's done. He also mentioned in his review that a high percentage of the cost of managing small media is the insurance bill that the state pays in all companies. It may be looked to lower it. There is one point to consider, for one authority noted that some of these magazines and the media depend very much on one large company in the local district. Of course, big companies are not bad in themselves, but it is not good to be dependent on one large company with advertisements in each paper every week to be able to keep the version going. It's not good, and it may not be very good for the future. However, he noted in his review that in order to reach all the people, government agencies, such as government tax authorities, government agencies, health institutions, and schools, and other government agencies, have to be made known by local authorities. I'll take it from the heart. I think it's our duty to build this country, to the public members of the media, which are also out in the country because we know that newspapers today do not necessarily enter every house in the country and do not reach everyone, the rest is much more natural that the local media in the country is new. Then, it can be said that if these media continue to die, there will be an even greater convergence in the media sector. I just talk out of my heart, and I feel that the compression is now good enough, and I think about the direction it develops. Therefore, it is important to also protect these small regional news reports and media, whether in digital form or in the form of a magazine, because it contributes to a democratic debate, contributes to improving image and information within the country and is something that can also be more closely connected between the capital area and the region, having access to these media to see what is going on in the country and vice versa. So I'm here to back up my whole mind... that the council arrangement will be prepared in a positive fashion... and that the council will be approved this time... and that group will be set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u104	A respectable president. The media is quite flourishing in Iceland. It is more flourishing than we knew 20 years ago, and there are other possibilities for us to connect with one another, yet the media in rural areas play an important role, both local and national. They are often a sort of portal into a society that others hide. Despite the confusion and new technologies, they still have important work to do as news and cultural media, and they're a publicity site in their area. They present a special position in the settlements and sometimes provide protection for important regional interests. These media, on the other hand, are struggling to take sides of the times. More and more media are now in the direct or indirect possession of financial resources, investors or large companies on their territory or national level. The regional newscasts, most of which do not all hold out as well, are not all of the subscriptions. This means that the nature of the case is dependent on the distribution manufacturer, which is usually the source of Iceland. This is one of the important spending factors, as mentioned in the previous discourses. Private, neutral, and practical media in the country are in a clean danger of extinction by the publishers, and there is a danger that they will greatly increase in the next loss, and months will not be helped to live in one way or another. In my opinion, this is dangerous evolution and poetry to those who love the free word. This is the interest and speciality of the country and its inhabitants. At the same time, it is the benefit of all the people of the country that these media do not disappear from the market but, rather, are allowed to thrive in their roles and on their own terms. This need to be viewed by an indiscretion and an understanding of their special status and importance. There are a few things that stand out from conversations with publishers in my district. In the opinion of publishers, the State should support the actual media of its projects, i.e. with clear and transparent criteria, with employees working for reporting and publishing their media and having it work on a yearly basis. It has been noted how Norwegians behave and other matters could be mentioned. The work of the Committee will be exciting to see how this project is carried out, whether it will be viewed as a vital structure, and to ensure that the possession of such media will be in local areas or at least to the point of convergence. It has been discussed, as I mentioned earlier, the Constitution of Iceland's e-mails and how subscriptions will be prepared for the competition with the press. The publishers view this as a clean mission for their hard work. In fact, the currency for the media mail is so low that advertisements even see their interests in printing advertisements and thus sending them into homes, but advertisements are extremely important. Free magazines in Iceland all have relatively weakened numbers, and they need every possible way to farms, and they think about a lot of advertising there. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir is one of the ideas that the public people are turning to the rural media to a greater extent than they do, but this is not simple, since the advertising activity of large companies has become available to services who watch older numbers and feel that small rural media are not competitive to the big magazines. If governments want to contribute to the continuation of democracies and community talk through privateised media, there are ways of killing people. that we offer support in the form of advertising in some way. It is, as I mentioned, far too much for public institutions located in Reykjavík to bind themselves to the central or urban media and believe it is the main purpose of advertising in that area. But newspapers do not always travel through the country, sometimes late and sometimes not, and they do not have as much spread as the national media. The publishers of the country want to put this into words, so today the newspapers are like the local newsletters of the capital area and their spread in the region is limited according to their opinion. It has been pointed out and discussed in the form of a discourse and a publication, including the following: to the high Council, that there must be an increase in the use of resources in the media and prevent compression, as has occurred in recent years. In fact, behind companies are even invisible money forces that move forward with hyperpower. From conversations with publishers in the country, we can see that the media committee, the United States Association, and possibly other surveillance agencies have no power in their defined role and that they need to search all to Russia to find such little respect for the need to maintain neutrality and the health of the media. A respectable president. The sound of the rural media is weak. Private, neutral, and practical media in the country are in a clean danger of extinction and will rapidly decline in the next few years and will not be helped to survive. It is in my opinion that citizens of the country and thus the benefit of all the people of the country is that they do not disappear from the market. If the government wants to contribute to the continuation of democratic development and a good conversation in the country, I strongly support the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education and Culture appoints this controversial group of workers who are rapidly and systematically working to ensure continued flourishing and ambitious media from all members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating the proposal here and thank her executive for putting it forward. I didn't sign up for the synonym, so I prefer to use this opportunity to express my firm support for it. I think it is of great importance for the freedom of expression that people in the country have a position to express their thoughts on their local affairs. I also feel that freedom of information is very important to me that citizens of the country are provided with practical and reliable information about what is going on in this country. I want to agree with them too. Councilmen who have discussed the importance of possessing and operating the media in the region are both clear and secure, i.e. did not put the editorial independence of these services at risk because they have to rely too much on a financier or an advertiser. In this context, I would like to refer to a so - called cooling effect repeatedly referred to by the European Court of Human Rights as having the potential to have a very negative, even illegal influence on freedom of expression, i.e. in situations where the general public and individuals are discouraged from expressing themselves for fear of consequences. This may include the fear of communicating with your main sponsor or the fear of expressing yourself about your employers. And it is very important for the so-called information freedom that the public, i.e. The inhabitants of the country may be confident that the information they receive from the servers is provided wholeheartedly and not on a secret basis that may be available for hidden media ownership. In the same way, I'd like to discuss only that it is, as shown in a report by the Senate resolution, common in the countries around us, that certain parts of the country have their own media. I well remember from my foreign studies in both the Netherlands and Germany that there were local and regional television stations and media as well. It is particularly important that we give such support, and there is often a big difference between what is heard on a national scale and what is heard in each area. Finally, I'd like to mention that I also feel that I have reason to make this assessment of national media status. I feel that free media in Iceland are under attack and that possession of them is odious and that it is often not possible to rely fully on the information presented in the media because you do not know who they are and what interests they are taking care of with their news transfer. From the report, I understand that such a report has not been made since 2005 and must say that much water has flowed to the sea ever since, and some changes have taken place in Icelandic society. So I think there's good reason to make a complete assessment. While there is certainly reason to stress the status of the media in the country and to promote it, we must not forget that the local media status needs further attention and how we can better guarantee the freedom to communicate with the citizens when it comes to the freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u106	Madam President. I just wanted to come here to finish this discussion. I appreciate it. I hear the senators are generally excited about it. Regarding the work of the Committee, it is helpful to remind you that many studies have been carried out, and many things have been done. This is not entirely new. In 2014, at the University of Iceland, there was a lunch meeting that featured the headline of the Kingdom News, Democracy, and Social debates. There some members discussed these matters, i.e. About the democratic role of the media - this communication, how it would have been changing, and so on. Among them was Dr. Hrafnkell Lárusson, a physician in history, who wrote extensively and studied regional media, especially in the east. The same can be said for Birgir Guðmundsson, who died at the University of Akureyri's think and social sciences. He is likely the Icelandic scholar who has done most of his research on regional media. He published an article in 2012 and links it with the very research report of the Generals, which I think is a good reminder. In Volume 8, the media play a talker, but their three - part role is a maintenance role, a role of information, and a discussion role. On this point it says: ▪ The role of maintenance means that the media seek to protect citizens from abuse of power, such as government and financial support. The role of information involves the media providing the citizens with reliable information and careful analysis of community affairs. Thus, powerful independence by the media provides the basis for enlightened general debate, which is fundamental in a democracy. As we have been discussing here today, it is very important to have voices everywhere that are being heard from the land. I'm afraid that's not the case. The discussion has not necessarily reflected the self - image of the whole country but, rather, the national media that look into their surroundings. I can also mention, for example, that a non - Witness person may be offered 15 p.m. on Saturday or something, even at home in the province, so it is not necessarily simple for us senators to participate in the community talk as such. This applies not only to members of Congress but to many others who have little opportunity to promote their territory. Unfortunately, as I said earlier, in terms of the role of nuV, which is only trying to scratch the tray, it has been reduced because it does not get enough money from this council. Of course, we need to try to change and improve the role of RUS rather than the independent media that spreads across the country. I listed as an example N4 and we know more stations, Ringtrack, INN, et cetera. But I think it's important that apart from the papers, these parties don't have to live in competition, i.e. Buying a share at a competitor's. Madam President. I thank you for the discussion, and I really hope that the General and Education Committees will now be powerful in view of the fact that there is not much work on the committee, i.e. To get in some guests and to try to get through these things. It's kind of annoying to be putting up a case from 2005 or about there, that I think, with some update, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u107	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synonym that the Council conclude to hide the highest order. HCPs are already taking the initiative to shorten a waiting list for measures in the female wards. I'm the first person to make the suggestion, but besides me, the carriers are still there. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, Einar Brynjólfsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Eygló Harðardóttir, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. I want to take this opportunity to thank you. Council members from four categories here at the General Assembly for contributing to this important matter. A respectable president. An essay with this synopsis states: ▪ Here is an proposed effort to shorten a waiting list for measures in the female wards. Some 300 women are waiting for an operation in the Women's Hospital, and the waiting period may take up to three years. The measures considered are primarily due to bladder sealing, colonic stenosis, uterine stenosis and urinary incontinence. During the days - in fact, when a concierge proposal was written, it was in the past year - the release of Iceland's female association with an announcement of the case, which, in fact, says:: It appears that women requiring measures such as these will be left out when sharing the money in the health system, the female union points out that this is an indirect sexual discrimination. It does not take a vivid imagination to see that waiting for so long to get into these operations has an enormous impact on the quality of the lives of the exposed women. Transporters of this proposal agree that the long wait for this kind of action has an enormous impact on the quality of life of the women involved. Therefore, it is suggested that a health minister be assigned to begin an effort to shorten the waiting lists already. At the same time, carriers point to the importance of further growing health institutions in many lands and giving them assignments. For example, the National Institutes of Health in West England at Acdéri runs a female ward that would no doubt be able to handle such tasks. It should be noted that this is the Western National Institute for Health at Aranesp, for example. This institution has previously taken part in an effort to shorten a waiting list. These include the campaign that began in 2016, which was undertook to shorten the people's waiting period for replacement operations, cardiac catheters, and lens surgery. There were big steps to improve patient service, improve quality of life, and strengthen the health system. The aim of the campaign was that the maximum postoperative waiting would be no longer than 90 days and, in the event of effort, it was planned to protect 1,663 billion. K. to this project between 2016 and 2018. Last year, approximately Half the budget taken care of. In that effort, treaties were made with the National Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, the Western Institute of Health, and the company Visualization. This was in order to make a financial agreement specifically to carry out certain measures beyond what the institutions had planned for their budget. This is where we suggest that similar efforts be made for women's wards. According to the Women's Association of Iceland, it is considered that women who need these measures will have been left out, as stated above. In this context, I need to mention in this brief talk that in my conversations with professionals, it has been shown that to a considerable length of time there is a need for action in these and other measures. In recent years, however, they have not responded to this plea. Therefore, it is necessary to agree with the Women's Association of Iceland and to support the words of a professional who has discussed the importance of being attacked in Women's Studies. It must also be noted that there has also been a debate and reports that there is a shortage of specialists in the Women's Schools. The situation is, in some cases, that today doctors are far more specialized in their assignments than before. It has been observed in the discussion that there are times when doctors who are both special during the women's operations and during delivery can be difficult and complicated. In the past, such an expert was very often found in one doctor. I think in view of this very important need to look into the financial contributions to establish that even more status values are needed to play an important role for certain institutions. At the same time, it is possible to examine the combined effects of experts between institutions and their tasks, but it is important to protect these activities in many parts of the country. A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to my inquiry on the spell. 576 since 2014, which I received in response to this question. 629, February 20, that year. That's exactly where I asked the highest source. Healthcare Minister to waiting list for Women's Department procedures. I also asked how many operations were performed in the institutions that perform such operations. There, due to my questions about the waiting list for an intervention, the waiting period for hospital action was found to vary considerably depending on the procedure. The figures I got in response to my inquiry are actually from October 2013 and are quite old. At that time, there was a period of waiting for uterine procedures and uterine removal at the National Hospital, far longer than at both the Western Health Institutes, at Acrelin and at the Akureyri Hospital. I was looking for information from the surgeon general's office, and these are recent numbers. It shows that 61% of those waiting for an operation, such as the uterine resection of the uterus has been waiting for more than 90 days for today's surgeon's office. This delay has been extended beyond the last observation, at which point 53% of patients waited longer than 90 days. The same statement from the surgeon general's office, the latest figures I found, at least on the Internet, also shows that 78% of those waiting for pelvic organ treatment to take longer than 90 days. There were, in fact, very comparable numbers from the previous measurements. I'm going back to quote my inquiry to 20 February 2014. There I also asked how many operations are performed annually in each department. I asked about the women's departments that operate today, i.e. at the National Hospital, Akureyri, and the National Institute of Health in West England, Acdéri Responders report that 699 larger operations are being performed in a annual hospital, 102 at the Akureyri Hospital than 275 at Akrelini. In terms of smaller measures, 1,389 operations are performed annually at a National Hospital, 251 in Akureyri, and 408 at Aranesp. These figures show how powerful the women's department at the Western Institute of Health is, for there are far fewer standards than there are at the National Hospital and Akureyri. The answer also shows that at the Akureyri Hospital, there is only a limited amount of time for performing beyond what is currently done in the operating room, affecting the performance of the Women's Department and that there could be a higher number of measures with unchanged medical care in the absence of the above bottle necks. In the Western National Institute of Health, it is possible to add a small amount of activities that could be done in a daily and walking department, but to increase the number of larger and heavier gynaecological procedures, the operating room needs to be reassigned and strengthened by medical care. Finally, I asked the issue of whether the women who are waiting for the Women's Hospital procedure were informed if the waiting period was shorter in the Akureyri Hospital or the Western Institute for Health at Acdéri. It noted that women seeking answers from the Women's Hospital for Hospitals on whether an operation can be performed with a shorter waiting period elsewhere should be discussed with a qualified physician in each case if this is possible. An answer from the Western Institute of Health said that it was likely random, therefore, how this information was administered, and in view of Article 18. patient's rights. The Hospital's response to the Akureyri Hospital showed that it was not a matter of information as to whether women who are awaiting actions in the Women's Department of Hospitals were informed whether the hospital's waiting list in Akureyri due to a comparable service was shorter than at the Land Hospital. 18th par. Act on patient rights sounds like this, by permission of the President: If a patient needs to wait for treatment, the treating physician should give an explanation of the waiting period as well as information on the scheduled period. The patient should be informed if they can receive any previous treatment. A respectable president. I'm here in my final words to read a story on the conclusion of the Icelandic Women's Association. It says, by permission of the president: A meeting of the European Union's Women's Association will address the current health minister, in fact - the highest. Health Ministers - a new government and newly elected generals are making an effort to solve the ◯ Permafrost situation in which women may have to wait for up to three years to get into pelvic surgery. This is reported by the Women's Association. It says that some 300 women are now waiting to be treated in the Women's Hospital. The main measures involved are cystic fibrosis, colonic stenosis, uterine stenosis and urinary incontinence. In a word of mouth, the relationship concluded: It seems that women requiring such measures will be left out when the money is being given into the medical system. The female partner relationship points to indirect sexual discrimination. It does not take a vivid imagination to see that waiting for so long to get into these operations has an enormous impact on the quality of the lives of the women it experiences. Indirect discrimination occurs where objective criteria, criteria, or measures are relatively less relevant to another sex unless appropriate, necessary, or justified due to objective factors regardless of gender. This neutral condition, a reference or disposition may be laws, regulations, policies, or other measures. After this discussion, I refer to the case. The World Health Committee and the World Health Committee hope that the matter will be brought into operation within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u108	Madam President. I'd like to get involved. I'm one of the members of the Parliament's odor proposal to shorten a waiting list in the women's wards. I think this case is very important. Hv. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, the manager of the case, came in handy with the urgent need there to shorten this waiting list. Of course, the fact that 300 women are waiting for pelvic surgery, as if traced here, is very serious. It affects the quality of life in the individual woman, affects the work programme, makes more of it from work, and requires community involvement. It's all in one place. These matters have to be taken care of. Although you don't believe that there's a deliberate sexual difference there, he's certainly there. If it is not for themselves to be that way, then the government's resources must be directed to meet these waiting lists, as was done last year, when money was laid to shorten a waiting list on knee and joint replacement operations and eyestone exchanges. A waiting list was successfully shortened. There, many were in pain and were important to speed up action in such patients. There are women's departments at the Western Institutes of Health, at the Aquilin Hospital, and at the Akureyri Hospital. It is very important to strengthen both the facilities and the specialist services in those places so that women can take advantage of what is available in other hospitals, such as the Akreti and Akureyri, in this case, and thus reduce the pressure of the Land Hospital. It's a place of intense stress. The land hospital is faced with a serious problem in financing year after year. There's got to be a bite to it. Waiting Lists are made. So I think it should be noted that when the funds are shared in medical institutions, looking whole over, also to health institutions around the country that can often take over the so - called discharge from the hospital's head hospital, our high - tech hospital. It is urgent to look to that too. Then we can look to more hospitals for smaller operations and also that the patient can recover and receive retreatment in his home, whether it is at the Fourth Hospital in the West or Nesmore, to be mentioned in that topic. I agree with this and believe that there is only a very positive desire at the council to speed up the treatment of the synonym so that it can be redirected as soon as possible and that the funds are in an effort to shorten a list of women's waitings in such cases. I can recommend that you visit the Western Institute of Health at Aranesp. I had to do this a year ago, to have surgery there because of a long wait list at the Hospital. No one will be betrayed by the good equipment, affection, and care in that hospital. I have no doubt that the same thing applies in Akureyri, as is true in all our hospitals around the country. All we need to do is strengthen them to process long periods of waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u109	Mr. President. I am the only member of the council member of the Parliament who makes his name known in this council decree. It's not a special flattery on my part to women. Rather, I view it as a national agreement. Here is health benefits for the people who have been assigned to walk with us and feed us into this world. In addition, this is an ideal opportunity to promote health - care facilities in many lands. But I can't ignore the fact that there's only one reason for this long waiting list, just like other long health - waiting lists. Obviously, governments have chosen to set priorities in other ways, in other matters, for the past years. These include 72 billion in a wide range of corrections. There you might pick up the fact that there was a special resource charge to the project. That would have been tens of billions of dollars if it had been put on stress for today. For such amounts of money, this part of the people I mentioned earlier would have been allowed to keep him from being on a horrified pain medication and suffering pain at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u110	A respectable president. I'm willing to thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for bringing up this case. This is an urgent concern that has not been solved for the past few years. Waiting lists are increasing, and more and more women have very bad qualities. The government took the initiative to shorten the lists introduced by the health minister in March 2016. This initiative was taken and carried out according to the minister's decision at the discretion and in agreement with the surgeon's office. Three groups of operations had become unacceptable for long periods of time. These were, as noted, arthroplasty, lens surgery, and cardiac compression. The carrying out of this project is doing quite well and according to plan, but better if it is done. Waiting lists are not reduced to what is needed and foretold. However, this is especially true of replacement surgery. For the other two groups, they have been managed to reach a manageable level, but replacement operations must be increased because they are continuing to be prolonged. It was evident at the time of the campaign that women's operations had become too long but that they chose to do nothing more at that time. The government's attention was focused on this in the leading of the campaign, but it was decided to follow the procedure recommended by the surgeon, to limit themselves to these three categories. This action is urgent, for the long wait is causing much discomfort and suffering and loss of employment, as we have seen. However, they have shown great endurance and have virtually carried their grief silently. Yet, women's interests have taken up the matter, a good sound one, and have recently called attention to the problem. There are probably more than 300 women waiting, unfortunately, for action, and this delay will reduce their quality of life, as observed in the abbreviation. I'm sorry to suspect that there are close to 400 or in a fifth hundred women waiting. These measures are carried out in three local hospitals, and there is a possibility of improving and doing better than the cost of extra money. I have submitted a written request to the health minister for the progress of the challenge listing and asking, including: whether or not there are plans to add measures such as women's actions. On the basis of available data, a decision has not been made for any further efforts to shorten the list of lists than we expect the proposed proposal to be accepted by the health authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u111	V.E.G. President. I want to use this opportunity to thank them. Congress members who participated in the discussion for their introductions and who briefly wanted to draw them together a little. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir spoke, and I agree with what she said, waiting for an operation, such as the Women's Hospital Department, certainly affects the quality of life of women. She is right that they can be from work. This results in social costs, apart from the discomfort and loss of the woman's quality of life. I agree with her comments about the importance of taking action like this and looking to the model we have since our last term when a waiting list was under attack, e.g. replacement procedures, etc. I cannot help but agree with her comments on the importance of taking advantage of the opportunity with this interpretation proposal to strengthen health institutions in many countries and to assign them additional assignments. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson for the speciality he has by being the only male coin that contributes to this situation. That's great. Thank you so much for that. Hv. A senator also spoke about the importance of promoting national health care. But I want to, because of their words. The senator's failure to have medical priorities during the last term, to say that there were still 40 billion added to the health system, and 50% of the government's expenses went to health and health care, including the U.S. ... inthelastfruits. This, of course, is a reminder that we need to continue to give and work more closely on these matters. Even if significantly improved during the last terms, we can do better. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. son of Brjánsson also has special insight for his insurrection, for that senator has an outstanding knowledge of this from his previous job, and he certainly knows what he is talking about in these matters. He was correct in saying that there were very long waiting periods in operations in the Women's Hospitals at the beginning of the last campaign. It is true that he says that it was still a matter of decision to leave this behind. I certainly hope, and I want to make his final statement to me, that this little council proposal, but important, is that health authorities will accept themselves and join us with members of the council who have spoken here and are in this matter of the importance of our being involved in this situation. I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u112	A respectable president. I hereby propose a proposal for a hearing of a comprehensive policy in the affairs of individuals with a heart failure in Iceland. Much of the simplicity is often discussed with alzheimer patients in this regard, but I will take a closer look at terms later in my speech. Artists are members of the council of Logi Einarsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The overall motion is: ▪ The General concluded to assign a health minister to develop policies in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure, which include awareness and public education, increased emphasis on central registration, targeted research, and the effort to care for a growing population of patients in the community. The initiative will discuss the nature of the disease and the frequency and currents most prevalent in neighboring countries and in general in Europe with regard to this patient group. The article will discuss the subject. Brain failure is a condition caused by a disease that affects the brain or is caused by damage that has occurred to him and causes him to remember, draw conclusions, express himself, and organise. In most other languages, brain failure is a translation of the word dementia, which comes from Latin and literally means "a reminder of thinking. " Clearly, it is a personal shock to be diagnosed with congestive heart failure, and today little is known about practical prevention. Stroke is the result of several diseases in which the Alzheimer's disease is the most frequent and is responsible for the development of 60-707 cases of cerebral dysfunction, while other diseases include e.g. Lewy body dementia and atherosclerosis. To date there are no therapeutic routes, but the treatment of cerebral insufficiency is given in various ways. Medical management, self - education, and management, psychological and social support for patients, and caregivers and finally late-stage nurses are preferred. The problem mainly occurs in the older years, but symptoms occur in the early stages in approximately 10% of patients. It is a health problem with great social consequences. Usually, brain failure develops over a long period of time, is inconspicuous at first, but causes a growing problem. Studies in common cognitive impairment and cerebral insufficiency give some misleading conclusions, but it is generally assumed that about 10% of those aged 65 and over have cognitive impairment, more than half of them suffer from encephalopathy, while the others are less symptomatic and may be self-involved. Thus, individuals with cerebral insufficiency need the growing services of the community, and in the last stages, only the most expensive community - care resource in a nursing home can be achieved. Thus, the financial cost of society is considerable and is increasing with increasing numbers of the elderly. The current cost of this disease has not been estimated in this country but is estimated to be at least 5 billion. Each year, these include several factors, as well as the indirect costs of various kinds. It is assumed that about one third of the nurses in nursing homes are only due to brain failure and its consequences. It is reported that as many as 70% of the elderly in nurses have symptoms of brain failure. So it is important to make the most of all community resources that can be of benefit to individuals with congestive heart failure and to postpone daily care as long as possible. Lasting up in a day - to - day institution is the most expensive means, as previously said, but will not be avoided. Many studies involving individuals with congestive heart failure have been carried out here on the whole of the country. There are a wide range of studies; basic studies, genetic research, epidemiology and drug research, but results of these studies generally have little impact on services. Smaller studies have also been conducted that involve daily problems, such as techniques for the diagnosis of memory diseases, attitudes of caregivers, as well as testing for care. Nearly every year, research has been made that professional and government initiatives have rarely been involved. In this context, we should look to the Norwegian experience in this regard. They provided funding for the establishment of a special knowledge agency on brain - related individuals (Norsk Kompetanspier for Olderdemen). It was around 1990. In addition to academic research, there have been extensive investigations with emphasis on services. There has been a large number of courses around the country, the Norwegian, and quite significant in publishing. As a result, nursing homes have endeavored to establish themselves as the best organization based on these studies and on the background of knowledge. Mr. President. Enrollment of individuals with cerebral insufficiency in Iceland is very fragile, and no one is able to confirm the degree of cerebral dysfunction. The European Alzheimer's Association (Alzheimer Europe) has estimated that the number of subjects with dementia in Iceland is nearly 4,000, based on their demographic situation. This corresponds to 1.19% of the total number of Icelanders. The percentage of people in Iceland with diagnosed encephalopathy according to this schedule is still considerably lower than the estimated average of the European Union of 1.55%. This recommendation is provided with a table showing the estimated number of Icelanders aged 30◯59 years with cerebrovascular symptoms and then over a five-year period thereafter. Individuals aged 30◯59 are believed to be about 165 in Iceland. It may hit someone who is uncomfortable. About 6 million individuals in Europe are diagnosed with alzheimer's disease and related diseases, and new cases of diagnosis continue to increase each year. Looking back on analysis and future predictions from neighboring countries, including From Danish and British analysts, the model for the year 2040 is that the total number of people with congestive heart failure in the Icelandic population will be 1.2◯2.9%. This must be a concern because of the degree of care that those who have advanced in mental illness need. The Alzheimer's Association in Iceland is powerful in its activities with over 1,200 registered associates. The organization operates three homes, day - training programs in the capital area. Then the organization also has links throughout the country, contacts to assist in its territory. The organization represents professional instruction and counselling to families and institutions throughout the country. The Alzheimers organization is an organization of candidates and amateurs, but it highlights professionalism in all its building projects and is a precious fixture in the rediscovery of the land so far. Iceland is now one of the few European nations that have not developed a comprehensive policy in the affairs of people with congestive heart failure, individuals with alzheimer disease, and other related degenerative diseases. Iceland is the only northern country that hasn't done this. In 2016 a European committee proposed that the Alzheimer's disease and related diseases be defined as a priority for health care in Europe. In addition, a policy that aims to deal with the conditions these conditions require and to promote studies that can lead to targeted treatment solutions will be adopted. Mr. President. In August 2007, Jón G. Snædal, a specialist in aging medicine, wrote a detailed opinion on the issues of individuals with congestive heart failure in Iceland through the then health and insurance minister. Their ratings followed the suggestions for action, but there has been a very limited structure on this basis. Then, in September last year, a collaborative committee on the matters of the elderly returned opinions to the social and housing minister. The committee points out in its results the importance of central recording of the number of people with congestive heart failure and the support and consultation of caregivers caring for people with congestive heart failure will be increased. By making and requesting good publicity on this proposal, Mr. President, we are not calling for large sums of money. Emphasis is more important that the health authorities in Iceland respond and pay attention to this category of events that the times call and therefore are intervening to other nations. The key point is that the health - care system organizes its tasks with this group of subjects in mind, that registration will be greatly improved, and that health care professionals will be able to be able to gain increased skills and knowledge in caring for and services to individuals with cerebral insufficiency. Mr. President. It is my hope that this heart issue will receive a positive report on the health committee and that the health authorities will be able to work to improve the lives of this designated group and the families associated with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u113	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson, the son of Encyclin, for the record, and for the purpose of this matter. I don't exactly answer it, but I'm more of a complimentary person. I just wanted to say that it will be useful to get this case to work. The General welfare committee, but me and what. S. The Brjánsson J.sson's gods are both members of the committee. There the matter will be considered for material treatment. Like what? A member of the Parliament discussed the matter of assigning a health minister to shape a course in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure, which includes a public awareness and educational work, as well as an increasing emphasis on central registration, targeted research, and the efforts to care for a growing population of patients in the community. This is an extremely important suggestion because, as the report shows, a list of individuals with congestive heart failure is very fragile in Iceland. There are only plans for a lot of people with this disease. The report goes on to say that Iceland is one of the few European countries and one North American state that has not developed an overall policy pattern in these issues. I want to complete this approach by saying that it is very important to get the case for the implementation of the Committee and to call for information on why this is on the land. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have asked if he had any information on why this situation is and why action is not being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Why are we in a better position than this? There are strange things about Icelandic society. We're small and few. It's a good guess, though. We've been pretty sophisticated and eager to build institutions. There has been an acceptable solution. This disease, in turn, remains hidden for a long time and is not carried into the public square as they sense a spiritual decline. While men try to stand up, doctors may also be reluctant to determine the diagnosis. It's part of the problem. We have an electronic medical registry in medical care. There should not be a problem with improving the registration. A surgeon needs to live by the fact that the register is very fragile. We look for increased awareness that will bring us over in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Knubson for the answer. It is true that we are small and small, even well - founded. It is also true that this disease persists for a long time, and doctors hold back from identifying it until further symptoms have developed. This, however, only shows the importance of having a material discussion about this subject. A well-being committee and review why Iceland is now one of the few European countries as well as one North American state that has not developed a comprehensive policy in the affairs of people with congestive heart failure and individuals with alzheimer disease or another related degenerative disease. We call for information on the collaborative committee mentioned in the report and gave consideration to the subject of the elderly to the social and housing minister of September 2016. As shown in the report, this committee, in its results, pointed out the importance of central recording of the number of subjects with congestive heart failure and that support and consultation would be increased by caregivers who treat people with congestive heart failure. I think it's very important, because there are people who know the best in these matters. I look forward to the discussion and to work on it. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u116	A respectable president. I want to finally thank you for the discussion. The people who live in mental illness are accompanied by a large group of family members; families that care for their own people are their own. That group needs support. We need to plan. It is not calling for a great deal of money to trigger something great, but primarily the discussion, changing organization, increasing awareness, and support for the work that is already being done. This is a priority project in Europe, among the European countries, in the European Union. People take it very seriously. It's bad looking. The same is true in the United States. There's a lot of research going on in this area. We always hear about a different kind of medicine that we hope will eventually produce. Today we're not far enough on the road, but we're heading in the direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u117	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your transfer, huh? paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson and his Group, the United Nations, for conveying this important controversy proposal for a comprehensive policy in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure. As we know, the diagnosis of cerebral insufficiency is a devastating blow. Brain problems must be counted on by most of their victims. As shown in a paper with the synonym as discussed here, there is clear evidence that much work is done when brain failure occurs. In a warrant study conducted by Anna Rósa Njálsdóttir and Lilja Hannesdóttir as a senior nurse at the University of Akureyri in 2010, about violence against the elderly and policy of the European government in the affairs of the elderly, some reported that the U.S.A. To the very end, the number of elderly ones is the most mind - filled victims of violence, and this is the case with the immediate members of the family. In the absence of a brain - related database, little can be said with certainty on their issues, but the other, it is clear that there is a greater need to get started to add services to the brain failures and to their caregivers. As described in this report, studies conducted here in the country have little value in the services of brain failure. In Iceland, care is usually the vast majority of the time at the hands of the people. To the extent that they can care for this care is unknown, this has not been studied and must be corrected for the first. This suggests that there are already support for brain failure as well as for those involved in it. I'm sure you're right. However, there is limited support and available and reliable information on the available support. An unscrupulous comparison from what is found in the media and in the community media suggests that the kind of support for the brain failures and those of the people involved are somewhat uncomfortable here than in the countries we prefer to compare ourselves with. In Germany, for example, a high priority is that brain failure can be the longest living in its home and emphasis on protecting their self - determination rights. Since there are very different ways for each individual to be used, resources are very varied and supported, the initiatives of the patients and their caregivers for good works, e.g. to an institution of cohesion. Of course, there are very different kinds of people who are equipped to provide their brain - damaged partners, parents, or others with needed help. Granted, some are incapable of doing so and make matters worse, as the study of Anna Rósa and Lilja revealed. In this regard, there is little generalization, since the reviews of brain disorders are not available, as indicated in the proposed report. For example, when offering assistance and living arrangements in Iceland, resources from abroad are compared with those from other countries. However, in Germany and the Netherlands, it becomes clear that there is still much work to be done in this area. As for the estimated number of brain failures and the cost of caring for them, I would like to say that there I do not feel that the plans of transporters are more likely to be on the lower side than the other. I allow myself in this context to refer to an article that my grandfather, Guðmundsson, published in the female paper of September, by President, which shows that there are no reliable numbers on the number of brain failures here, and therefore he is counting from the United States. It is estimated that some 5.5 million suffers from dementia, or more than 1.5◯2% of the population. Thus, a similar proportion would be about 5,000, more than 4,000, just as this is the case. This estimated annual cost was estimated to be about $226 billion in 2015. According to the appeal rule, this will make our current success. So even though we assume that this vast difference is explained in part by different health systems, I feel that the expense of society due to brain dysfunction is not likely to be considerably greater than the 5 billion that have been eliminated here. This, along with the actual number of brain failures, is among the many factors that can be proved - and need - by more and more research on these topics. So I welcome this council's eulogy proposal and thank the move again. It is particularly important that we give our people the best information, the best, and the best information we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This is a sensitive subject and is often confined to families, and they are isolated and often do not know how to deal with their problems. Sadly, we are still at that stage, although we hope that this will begin to become something that we can discuss openly, no matter how shocking it may be. They've even handled it as shy business, and it's been resting on this kind of shame, so let me say. They're ashamed to carry this into the public square. Still, there are signs. Efforts have been made with the social security program, as it is called in Denmark. I think I can inform you here that Western eyes are wondering about making the Western Islands a friendly town with brain-created people. The primary task is to educate citizens on how this disease develops, what it is, and what it can be expected. So there are some things in the water. It is suggested that information is difficult to obtain. That's right. There is no one person in Iceland who is this center for trouble users. What a shock this is when it comes to it! Pointing to the Alzheimer's organization, I have a powerful homepage to keep out my office and professionals to provide services to our caregivers. Also, the Landspians, who give the strongest professional service and who have tests and distinguishes a person's brain failure. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this meeting anymore. I thank all those who have participated in the discussion for the participation, and I expect this case to be established by a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-22-30.u119	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Council (reduction of pay according to salary development since 2013) etc. ; J.; J.; J.; J. 260. ▪ 1st. If it's allowed. Along with other programs proposed by the President of the Generals. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Gunnar I. Guðmundsson, Smári Mccarthy, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, and Einar Brynjólfsson. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of the next meeting.
