ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u1	We're moving to the highest. The prime minister of his policy on behalf of the government will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the International Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. The Prime Minister has 18 minutes to history, while other members of Congress have ten minutes to first pass, in the second and third round, the members of Congress have five minutes each. The order of the classes is in all of the traffic: Independence category, the left movement, the green supply, the Piratars, the Exhibition, the Propulsion category, the Bright Future, and the Conspiracy. The speakers for the Independence Party will be Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson in the first round, Þórdís Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, on the second round, and the Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, 8th. That's the north side. "In third round. The speakers for the left movement ◯ green supply becomes Katrín Jakobsdóttir, 2. Smoke. n., first round, second Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, 6th. Southk., and third round, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir 5th. We're out of here. To Pirata, Ásta Helgadóttir Helgavóttir, 3th. Smoke. s., first round, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, 7th. Smoke. n., second round and Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, 7th. Smoke. S., third. For resurgence, Benedikt Jóhannesson, minister of finance and economics, speak first round, in the second Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 5th. Smoke. So, and on the third round Jona Elínardóttir, 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For the forwarding party Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, 2nd. South, first round, second Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, 9th. Smoke. So, third round, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, 2nd. That's the north side. For Bear's future, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the second Björt Ólafsdóttir, the Environment and Resource Minister, and the third round Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir, the 12th. We're out of here. The members of the United States will first pass on Logi Einarsson, 9th. That's the north side. "Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, 10th, South, second and Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Bránn, 8th. Witchest. "In third round.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u2	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The independence government, the restoration, and the Bears'future opened up on January 11, 2000, in the United States. The newborn government inherits good external circumstances. Thus economic situation is strong and happy for the future. A new government takes away from its general elections a strong requirement for building infrastructure and social infrastructure. The government contract is about infrastructure and stability. The infrastructure is the core of the Treaty, regardless of health, education, social security, family, transportation, or innovation. At the same time, the government wants to develop a steady balance in the economy. In view of this, there is a measure, or value, of the government of the two; balance and vision. Balance creates the right balance, and discipline - a gypsy jacket is the best. Vision gives the power to build, go further, do better. First, let us look at the balance. Balance is a complex concept, which involves balance in different circumstances and tasks. We seek progress, but at the same time we want them to change our balance and adapt to improved results. Society is a collection of individuals whom they build, individuals with different visions, abilities, and disposition. Yet, some people are content to live in the corner, uncivilized, and thrifty, to say in the poem of Tómas Guðmundsson, the son of Thomas. ▪ Because there are so many things that humans are looking for, and the opposite of the purpose that is set before them. The balance in society is not merely about external quality. It is also about how we use it to cultivate what is inside us. Evidence flows in, indicating that we can do much better, both as a nation and as individuals, to make ourselves comfortable. Too many people experience feelings of distress, anxiety, and depression, and sadly, especially our young ones. It is not trivial in a youth's mind, if he feels depressed because the way he reacts to social media does not meet expectations. This is a new reality that we need to help our children realize. The government does not control happiness, but the actions of the government certainly influence the ship's sailing, its direction, its back, and its crew. As a result, the debate at the Council can also affect the souls of the people. The balance of society comes from both the top and the bottom. It doesn't come by itself, it needs work. There are many factors involved. There is strong evidence that post-mortem cuts caused an emotional response in a large part of the nation that a community contract guarantees access to health care. The increased cost of health care during recent years has not been able to cure this emotional reaction. The government's declaration of its policy has made health matters a priority. Part of that task is to shape a clearer policy on how we direct the ever - increasing demand and each boat to sail. The nation grows old, and technology moves forward. The nation's GDP, which will depend on medical expenses, is growing more slowly than its ability to cope with disease. There are many challenges to health care. We don't solve all of them with new funding. For that, the budget is too limited. However, Iceland's economic situation and a good pension system make us better equipped than most other countries to cope with this problem. The production per Iceland, corrected for its purchase, was one of the largest in the world in 2015, about one quarter higher than the average in the European Union. This means that we can demand that the quality of life in our country reflect this very strong situation. Balance also involves supporting those in need of self - help. The government intends to adopt a work programme and make the microenergy pension system more flexible to promote workforce participation. It will also endeavor to help those with disability to direct the ministry that they are able to accomplish. The objective is to improve quality of life and social functioning. Iceland is a population of population rich in human resources that has to be enjoyed. The government intends to make it easier for immigrants to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society. Good citizens of the country. Here is another example of how balance may be involved. A major challenge in the complex world of Icelandic families is the balance between work and personal life. There's a big difference in family and equality. To quote Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir: ▪ We greet a future in which men and women work together in the pioneer spirit for all national affairs, both in the homes and at the General Assembly. This age - old Bríet dream is closer to becoming a reality now than ever before and perhaps closer to it in our society than anything else. The government will do its part to help that. Above all, economic balance is a matter of balance. What a challenge it is for a government to accept good economic conditions! It is not necessarily possible to maintain it and never to give up. There's been a lot of economic growth here, and history teaches us that longer years may be around the corner. We need to look for ways to balance and reduce fluctuations, e.g. with the coordination of money policy, government financial policy and labour market, with a review of the frame of vigour policy, with a new work model to the north, and with a new stable fund holding on to profit from energy resources. In December 2017, the budget was adopted in an approved manner at the General Assembly. It accounts for more than 50 billion dollars. increase in expenses from 2016, about 8% of the government's expenses. This increase is primarily of well - being, and it is unprecedented. The growth has been due to the clear demand for greater expenditures for basic services and infrastructure. As the economy does not need injections in such circumstances, it is important to remember that this injection into the core service is the response to the call of the community that went through painful cutting down of the postoperative wounds. It has been successful to reduce the debt of state funds, especially by stabilisation, but interest costs are still far too high. Funds assume that we will pay about 70 billion dollars. growth during the year. That is 10 billion less than two years ago, but there is far too much money and the highest interest in Europe as the proportion of land production is observed. We cannot accept paying the highest interest rate in Europe as a proportion of land production. It is therefore an urgent task to continue to reduce debt and, therefore, the State's interest fees. And it leads to a big difference in the welfare of reducing debt. Thus, there is room to do better in all things. The balance between increased expenditures for infrastructure and economic stability is the largest project in this government as well as many other governments before it. The task requires discipline and a concerted effort. The government is not alone in this assignment. Economic management sync is on many hands. Good citizens of the country. Next, let us go to the theme of the government covenant, a vision. ▪ The future is not what it used to be, to be known as a smoldering proverb attributed to many. The proverb describes the changing world, the future tomorrow will probably be different from the future yesterday. Individuals prepare for an unforeseeable future with a vision. They often try to do what they think will help them. Resent, lay down, and set up a roof over his head, and bring his children to a man well. The same is true of societies. They should set goals for themselves on the basis of best information and research. Then work hard to reach a set goal. One of these goals is about improving human health. New research shows that we Icelanders are under the boats of other northern nations when it comes to diet and exercise. As government officials, we have the task of molding health policies, which will guide us to render good service when problems arise, while also making preventive and public health goals high above our heads. We thus look to the future in order to improve health and reduce the pressures of our health because of life - style related diseases. Consider another example from a very different source. At the beginning of the 1990's, there was much discussion of monotonous exports. We moved out fish first and last. The eggs were all in the same basket. It was said that we would need large amounts of export so that our standard of living could be compared with surrounding nations. We'd also have to increase the variety of exports. Our actions would need to be directed to this. By 25 years later, the value of transport on solid prices has tripled. We have been able to maintain a good quality of life on nearly every high standard of life. What's more, we've managed to fire more and more pillars for exporting. We had a vision, and the results were good. But we must continue to pursue the rivalry of the nations. We need to double the value of export in the next 15 years. How do we do that? It is dangerous to believe that we will succeed simply by increasing the amount of exported goods, such as sean or metals. It is almost to emphasize an increase in valuable things, perhaps especially from those we already play. And we must build on intelligence to produce goods and services in international competition. There is our application tool for further exports to the future. New birth and development are the passwords. The government intends to support handsome research and development, and the role of competitive funds will be expanded to research creative articles. To achieve this success and improve Iceland's competitiveness, we need to improve our education. Education is the key to the future. It enables us to create the intelligence of our export. Education enables our children to withstand international competition but also puts pressure on us to offer the young generation a competitive standard of living in a globalized world. Education also makes us better equipped to cope with technological changes. A new professional revolution lies ahead, but we do not yet know how it will affect individual sectors. For example, autopilots. We do not know whether this technology will increase the number of cars, or will it possibly reduce the number of them? Education helps us deal with the unexpected and unknown, although it is unclear how education will eventually be used. Thus, the government will promote all levels of school. It's a vision. Today, one of the greatest threats is the global warming caused by greenhouse gases. We need to shoulder responsibility in the community of the nations. To quote Tómas again: But to many it seems expensive to these hotels Although there's a debate about whether the hotel itself is going to make money. But we who travel have no choice. There are no more accommodations. In a series of operations in connection with the Panama Armada - the government is planning to set green incentives and encourage forestry, land healing, and energy exchange in transport. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The Treaty stipulates that there will be no upcoming indiscriminate investment agreements due to pollution of the big business. Tómas'trade is also appropriate for the tourism, the new price charge in Icelandic national farming, and the main reason for the rapidly growing currency reserves. The success of these sectors is based on the tireless work and intensive market work. However, we need to be careful. We need to focus on the road, not grazing down a unique opportunity for long - term prosperity with short - term goals and monotonies. At the same time, it is necessary to gain a better understanding of the effects of tourism on other employment projects, especially those of the starters of international competition. I can't let it pass for me to include with great gratitude in the tireless work of the police, the rescue teams, and the D.A. during the last few days of the search and investigation of Birna Brjánsdóttir's case. With the media, we have watched well - trained people go night by day to help us understand this shocking subject that has touched us all. In grief at seeing such a young woman in the prime of her life, they have been comforted by the solidarity and solidarity shown by the public's response, who has Birna information, and who have shown warm affection and support to their parents and loved ones. I'll witness to Birna's family and support my heartfelt sympathy. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. The government is starting a new election, a new road leading up to the 1920's. During our election season, we recall the 100-year-old sovereign of Iceland and the 75th anniversary of the republic. We can be proud of our ancestors, our brothers, their efforts, and their prospects. They took up narrow farms, but with the will and vision, the nation was able to improve its terms. We can also be proud of how we, the following generations, have built up a prime welfare community. We can be proud of our country. We are to continue this fine work and cherish our ongoing environment. The government thus makes it a goal for Iceland to become attractive for all who wish to participate in building an Icelandic community for the future. A society where human rights, equal opportunities, variety, freedom and responsibility, as well as respect for differing opinions form a solid foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u3	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to start by saying, "To the highest. " Prime Minister of the social unity and solidarity that the nation has shown recently after a young woman's future was lost in a grim way. May all of us stand firm against violence and make sure that our young ones will have their future in peace. There are in many parts of the world that paint the air, that is, war on many sides. In many countries, election ends have caught many off guard, as well as on the results reflecting a growing gap between groups in western and east communities and showing that there are different ways to react. You see, politicians can make both, build walls, or build bridges. I say we're supposed to build bridges, but that's why we're gonna have to deal with the real stuff. Some of them mentioned the highest. The prime minister in his talk, such as for the development of climate change and global warming, needs real action. We need to prepare the labour market in Iceland to deal with the technology that will transform it here as well as anywhere else, and most important, social stability is to be ensured. That's what I heard. Prior to this, the prime minister did not discuss much. You see, such a project calls for real system changes, and the government that has now taken over is not a government without such changes. That's what it's all about. The prime minister decided to quote Tómas Guðmundsson and his song from the 1930's, since the treaty is about many things in the best 1920s, perhaps figuratively, that he is signed by three men in spite of improved gender proportions. Similarly, the presentation of a financial minister we heard about in the media at the local financial policy of a new government is conservative. You see, the government that has now taken over proclaims a conservative policy. It can be called a balance, it can also be called quiet because the plan is to postpone the necessary growth of well - being and education, the building up of no more than space within the economy. There must be no extra effort to build up a wide range of welfare systems, health systems, and education systems. This is signed in the highest speech. Prime Minister when he says: "The amount of money is too low. On the other hand, the minister says, needs to do something in the imagination that the community treaty to ensure access to health care has broken down. The concept likely appeared in 86,000 signed signatures by the Icelanders, demanding additional donations for health care. The concept is expressed in the fact that the payment of patients in this country is considerably higher than in other countries at the same time and lacks funds to provide care and adequate circumstances. And in the past, it would also be motivated by a measure of interest. The financial prime minister reduced the tax burden of the largest groups and gained weight on other groups. In fact, some would call these facts rather than fanciful. Good citizens of the country. Icelanders well know that the economy has improved over the years, and many have been better off now than it is a good one a few years ago. Such a situation creates pressure but also challenges, such as the highest. A minister rightly said. But economic management is not merely a matter of maintaining good conditions. It is about developing a policy toward the future so that we foster our sectors, making sure that they have a clear vision, not pulled in different directions. It is indeed a challenge to work with our largest exports at this time, the tourism service, to ensure the build-up of revenues, and to pursue environmental tourism, which, in turn, meets ambitious climate targets and ensures the protection of individual nature. But it is also possible to just keep waiting and seeing, allow landowners to collect in favor of nature protection laws, and wait for these ogress to come marching down from the mountains, all as one, and to bring forth low work in the tourism industry, to quote poets from the 21st century to change. It is a challenge to ensure that the economic recovery comes to all groups rather than just the richest groups in the community - even though there is a greater support for the government. It is a challenge to secure democracy instead of capitalism, and there is good reason to correct the situation of the most efficient groups when surveys show us that there are several thousand children suffering a material deficiency in our rich society. To ensure an equality and social stability, a change in the system, taxation, and tax burden are needed by the most efficient groups. It could start with the patients' taxes that are higher here than elsewhere, and at the same time it would be possible to make more money of those who have the most money between them, because holding an interest on welfare costs rather than raising taxes on the wealthy is actually raising the budget on ordinary people rather than the richest. It is in the well - being of the normal people who seek their valuables. Let us not imagine that here, like in other parts of the Western world, there is no discrepancies. We know that the richest 10% here has three fourths of all wealth according to figures in 2012, and it is not likely that tax downs and due corrections in the past three years have yet to increase their share. We do not want the place to be a guard for such inequities as this is foretold. In fact, social stability will also be important in the work assignment mentioned here, dealing with the technological changes that will take place in the coming years and decades of changing the work market as we know it. There is a need to keep in mind the rights of employees, an improvement in terms, and certainly an increasing education. Therefore, we need to see a number of targets so that the college budget reaches the OECD average and then goes on to the Northland average. Unlike any age group, we need to make sure that our high school can open our doors and ensure a wide variety of studies that meets the needs of students. There are not enough changes, but there are very few clearly defined goals, but there are certainly a wide variety of business plans, which translates into private business and how the public of the country takes no particular interest in, but the economy has certainly been interested. A respectable president. I was so happy to hear that. a new marine dignitary and agricultural minister declares that there would be no laws on sailors strike, which would be unlikely to be taken to make peace with the article. I'd like to say here that I have a heart-to-heart agreement. Minister on this emphasis. I'd also like to say that I expect new heights. Environment Minister, who has proclaimed an ambitious climate action program. We are confident that it will soon take place and that a minister will also come together with members of the local council of the left green to set up a new highland park. We senators of the left green will support the Minister for all the good works of this suit. But as we all know, there will also be a need for structural change to achieve real success in climate. The question is, Is the government that seems to in many ways so strangely conservative will survive it, for in climate matters it is not enough to have a powerful environmental minister, all the Ministry and all institutions must work together, and there will be a great challenge to the leadership of the government. Good citizens of the country. System changes were the words of the last campaign. Whole groups were founded on such changes in fishing and agriculture as well as in the European Union. These same categories are made up of the government that is primarily shaped by the independence Party's policy - all in the right direction, he said in his last campaign, and almost reprinted the Constitution of the Treaty. System changes wait for better time. You cannot do everything at once, for the future is a long one, says a new financial minister. You can think of another minister from the television programs, the Minister of Ministers, who was the editor of the newspaper Reform, who could translate the system changes before he became the minister of the administrative affairs. On the contrary, after he accepted an office and met his fine officials, he became very tamed over the fact that Rome was not built in one day. The national agreement on the EU planned for elections will suddenly be to wait for the dust to settle on Baltrexit. Suddenly, Rome is not built in a day, and men begin to quote Tómas Guðmundsson in search of inspiration. In fact, Tómas Guðmundsson wrote more than a Hotel Earth, e.g. This: And it is true that at times I have needed / in all my feelings of inadequacy. Somehow, those words came to my mind when a new political agreement appeared after months of talk about system changes, pretty much out of system. Good citizens of the country. We who sit at the Council are all representatives of the common people. That is why our main work is to ensure that all in the community are in the same boat that has the opportunity to enjoy all that society has to offer. We thus contribute to social stability, compassion, and improved quality of life, but we need a government ready to take action to improve the standard of living for the future. The vessels that protect the privileges of some need to be changed, good citizens, and this may require a different government than those taken today. One thing, though, is the task that all of us should be able to work together on as we sit here, although we do not agree on it and we are building bridges. Every day we meet such a carpenter, the bus driver who greets everyone and reminds you that all of us are respected in his car, the nursery teacher who solves the problems of different backgrounds, people who come here from other countries, even in flight, and then teaches us so many things and makes our lives more varied and better. There are national leaders who increase understanding between different nations and members of the council, who solve knots but do not harden them, but we also meet those who build walls, who always want to lock themselves up and change nothing. I think that in all countries today, one of the most important projects for politics is to assist the Muppets, regardless of where we are. I hope that at least it can become our common project. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u4	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'm not from the fact that it takes a measure of courage to form three categories of government with one man more part, as we now see. This will be a special term for many things, as the outcome of these elections was for a number of unusual things. The 4th party has never been as small as it is today, and the percentage of new senators has never been so high. Then there have never been more women and no more groups have found out. This reflects the clear demand of social renewal, diversity, and new political practices. But what happened next? As a result of the election, they decorated themselves with fresh reforms and praised conversational politics, more politeness, and new tactics, have formed an alliance on the same condition. The restoration and the bright future weigh salt to the Independence Party. The government that has now been created is far from our dream government, but at the time of their arrival, we Piratars will use our ethic strength, grant the government the right to hold, but support good things when they come out. A respectable president. Truth is best. In view of this, it is a requirement that the Ministers of the Iceland Government inform the Allied Congress and the Nation of Right. The law on the rights of the minister of truth is in force in many of our neighboring countries, but the laws on the rights of the Ministers here do not guarantee this important responsibility to the council and to the nation. I would like to emphasize this in the light of recent events in which former financial ministers did not want to put a particular campaign report, a report that in the large context discussed the reason why the elections were hurried. In short, a minister secreted information on the property of the Icelanders in the tax industry in the leading elections, possibly, found out that he himself and two of his fellow ministers were mentioned in the Panama Documents. Sadly, there is nothing that would make counselees obligated to publish important information on their own initiative. This is a case with Pirates and I will fight for in this terms, just like the last one. You see, in civilized democracies, it is called corruption when politicians use their official office in behalf of personal and political interests. Then it is called a lie when a person is deliberately wrong. Today, a new assembly is trying to show that our talk about new forms of employment and political responsibility is not empty. A respectable president. In a government contract and a debate of the highest order. The prime minister is spoken of as having little as a hand, yet he is referring to vision. The word "controvert " has also been a definition of one of the administrations. Also there's reports that the fishing system needs to be changed, the agricultural system needs to be improved, better practice here and there, and so on, and so on. But once it has turned out, it will be peace as long as it suits them and their interests. Clearly, being your best friend is the most important thing. To begin with the council by denying the less part of a committee that reflects a scholarship is not new or fresh practice, but the decline and corruption of corruption, since corruption is not merely a misuse of power, but of behavior that weakens confidence in society's institutions and rules. What a fine example of this is the spiritual care of the superintendent congregation! Good citizens of the country. There's a medical emergency in Iceland. In an interview with the Evening Press on July 16th. Admitted to the highest level. Prime Minister, then secretary of finance, with the permission of the president, 0 20% of the patients do not trust to seek medical care because of a poor financial situation. Today says the highest. However, prime minister that insured access to health care is merely thought - provoking. Just like it's probably insane not feeling everything's cool in Iceland. Speaking thus to the nation about our most serious problems, our most delicate problems, our health, does not show respect for any new authority. A respectable president. It is impossible to cultivate what is inside us in situations where there are no regard for people's differences in needs and ideas. There is little opportunity to affect external situations when the majority of the object always rolls over the rest. Of course, society is looking forward to what is going on in the highest power institution of society. What kind of circumstances are we creating here at a council? It is developing a situation in which members of the Parliament are constantly driving on overhaul because of lack of planning and insecurity of the council, too small a waiting period when discussing huge cases in a Senate hall, such as the quick payment of Christmas budgets, is evidence of, but as is the case at the highest level. The prime minister notes that most people do not feel comfortable in overcoming matters. How about we start by creating this dream environment to the highest degree. Prime Minister speaks of, here at this council? There is a bad blow over the way existing government groups have walked, for example. With regard to the commission, use the small print in the contract to the limit, instead of respecting the spirit of a council that was approved in 2011, according to the evidence given by the General Commission on how to cope and the cause of the collapse of the bank. They were tailored to making the project less predominant than it had been before, so that social diversity would be allowed to, be enjoyed, but as well as enjoy itself. The prime minister mentions them as a population of Iceland. This means that different opinions, different categories, different policies, and backgrounds need to be at the table. And it's okay to disagree, but on a materialistic and enlightened basis. Why does impatience and anger take place? My experience is that people experience no power. Not listening to what it has to say. That it is being rolled over and what it has to do with putting on an irreprehensible basis. On the basis that it's not on the right side. A respectable president. We are not leaves in the wind, like a vision of the future. The prime minister indicates. Having a clear picture of where we are going is vital. We can prepare for the future. We can decide which course to take, e.g. to increase transparency, comply with administrative law and accept a new constitution. In fact, we can prepare ourselves for the arrival of self - exhausted cars. Where is the vision and policy of the government? We need to make a decision regarding our social goals and take appropriate steps in that direction. We need to stop using just the things in our word and acting. V.E.G. Prime Minister mentioned education as the most important thing to think about. Will the government take away the 25-year rule in high school? Or is it too uncomfortable? Good citizens of the country. Finally, I would like to remind you that now as never before, there is a need to promote the voice of rights and equality, freedom of expression, and democracy in the world. Iceland can do that. We need to keep the big words, not just to our voters and people, but to the whole world community. Pirat and I will stand up to ourselves and continue to fight for human rights and democracy. The only sure thing is that the future will surprise us, but we welcome it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In the first days of a new, liberal government, there is reason for optimism. Outside of the world, there are many good things to do. Some might say that it was not a reason for change, but the right time to think things over again is just the right time to act on the needed reforms, reforms that contribute to a competitive standard of living in the countries around us. The paradox that confronts the nation is that it needs two aspects of life, change, and stability. We hold on to the good, but we change the things. We want a system change, but we don't want no prostates. In all areas, we must have equal equality, especially the right kind of sex to the same effect and reward. All who have the will and ability to work should have the right, regardless of their age. Public and commercial companies have established a code that no one should work after a set number of birthdays. The society loses with this much human resources and many more workers at the same time, and there is a shortage of labor. Stableness may not work, perhaps because the word reminds us of a resolution. In contrast, economic stability would be a revolution in Iceland. The population has grown into far more involved in salaries and gangs than most other countries of the world, at least In the Western world. The vomit is huge, but the collapse that will inevitably follow if humans go too high sucks. It would be a revolution to maintain long - term stability in this country. It would be a revolution to have prices similar to those of a foreign country. Icelanders are well aware that dressbacks include rising the pay by a certain dollar, which inflated inflation, are no compensation. Yes, it would be a revolution to have growth comparable to that of the neighboring countries of Iceland. And it would be a great change from what is now if trust in the foundations of society, such as government, government, and General, would be renewed. In this world, there are many things that the Allied government cannot change. A general doesn't make much money. It is mainly the companies and their employees who create the wealth on which our welfare systems are built. Yet, there are a number of factors that we generals and governments can influence. We can create a good setting for people and businesses. We can help import agrienvironments. The agreement with the European Union on mutual demolition of various goods will double the import of agricultural products on the summer. At that time, expensive tollocates must not raise excessive prices to consumers. The interests of consumers and their freedom of choice must be immediate. We too can influence growth and interest. Among the 34 budgets, there is nothing that can compare to that of 70 billion dollars. as interestpayers, but as hospital staff, it receives 77 billion. The obvious way to improve Kingdom interests is to lower the burden of growth. And what should we do about it? Responsible government business. Payback. Abolition of the past and thus a better credit rating. All of this brings down the interest rate. The government's credit score increased from B to A - when? On the same day as the new government began. Higher rates lead to lower interest. That was good news, but we can do even better. The government's declaration of policy states that efforts must be made to reduce the large fluctuations that have been in the gangs of the crown. Such fluctuations promote instability and, in part, explain why growth is usually much higher in the country than in neighboring countries. Work is already starting to prepare to reevaluate Iceland's currency policy with a view to improving progress. A new money policy needs to provide security so that a company can cope with economic change and make long-term contracts. Remuneration must also be assured that the pay is sufficient for expenses and that inflation will not eat up the compensation. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Society is based on trust between people and, especially, trust in institutions. The best way to develop a good image is to maintain a good conduct. The national trust is built up together by a spirit of solidarity and solution to members of Parliament and Ministers. But it can be a little tricky. Enrollment means holding many meetings and doing things that can be taken care of. However, the cost of sacrifice is fully justified compared with the high level of solidarity, the increase in trust between humans, and the increase in credibility. Disappointment is a national lesion. Hence, it is essential that governments work openly, as can be done. Intensification and due answers are the means to minimize suspicions that may take place in a different way. One of my first jobs at the Ministry of finance was to decide that the city's budgets and their institutions would all be available to the public online. For a while, preparation has been made, and this is being planned on spring days. The Kingdom can be seen in many parts of the congregation. Recent efforts on the common purchases of many institutions have saved billions. All of us here are citizens of the public money, and we need to be careful to treat each other properly. The goal is, not to spend as much as possible on good subjects, but to do as much good as possible for the money. We in the government give the black economy and the tax industry war. Following a report on the scope of Iceland's national property, I have had a meeting with both the head of state tax and the head of the IRS, including to close the taxes. My fellow Americans. The priorities are clear and stated in the government's policy declaration. Health matters are first of all. Improvements in agriculture and fishing areas that make better peace with the branches are needed. A steady gang makes Iceland competitive with neighboring countries. Icelandic employment is not just a competition with foreign companies, Iceland is competing with good people abroad. The standard of living in Iceland must be comparable to what happens in neighboring countries, so we keep to our best people. It is wise to build wood, improve communication, fix roads, and build new ones. We're not going to do it all at once, though. I remember it when it happened. A senator, president of the left green, spoke of government's lofty ideas, but he goes too far into prison and tried to force change without making peace. This is an unwise method, unacceptable to lasting success. We Icelanders are required to promote freedom in all areas, tear down seas and walls, and facilitate trade between countries. Jón Sigurðsson, the good independence hero, always said that free trade is a prerequisite for the nation's prosperity and its true independence. Good Icelanders. We have repeatedly demonstrated that in times of joy and sorrow, we stand together as one man. But what about the days between them? No one expects us to agree on anything small, but we can agree on how we work. We can agree on working wholeheartedly, speaking respectfully to one another, and discussing each other. No one grows in shrinking. Reverence issues are freedom and equality in all areas. Let us promote brotherhood with the nation and thus clear the way for freedom and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u6	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. A new government has taken over Iceland, and it is well - known for its well - being, for its well - being and well - being. Fortunately, the board of directors takes on good living. The fine farm was made on the cover of the advance party. The restoration had nothing to do with it, and I don't remember her attachment, a bright future, has contributed much to the restoration of the Icelandic economy. Yet, I remember that the former chairman of that party suggested a proposal for the hearing of the council a delay of the clock and the bright morning to the next day. Two major factors led to a better outcome in Iceland after the season of the first clean left government ended, both issues put before the elections in the forward category of 2013. The first was the general procedure to correct the mutants of housing loans that greatly improved the personal status of many homes. But now it's time for Icelandic households to make the lowest known in the north - the highest of all. The second is the release of a sea that seems to be going to the best of expectations. The two huge cases even went on. The basis for an increase in prosperity in Iceland. It's fine for a new government to keep that in mind. In particular, they should think of a career that considered Iceland the best paying off by paying off the expansive debt of abroad, Icesave, and by walking in the European Union, the burning house, as well as U.S. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson probably put it. There is a difference between those who wanted to extend their help to Icelandic households and who especially want money to do so, as well as those who were willing to pay tens of millions of dollars in order to please foreign demands. In fact, it may seem that such rulers are now ruling the country. But hopefully they have learned from their error. But anyway, today the day is getting longer, so the mornings are getting brighter, even though the clock has not been rougher. And it will be revealed in various sense if the right thing is to be done. In this regard, using hand is not enough to remove the writing of ancient geniuses, even though they are of the Grimes. There's more to go. V.E.G. Prior to this, the prime minister was told about balance. Balance would be another theme of a new government. According to a speech, it's the highest. A prime minister is important in maintaining social balance. He's right, I agree with that. By permission of the president, you can read a chapter in his talk: There is some evidence that a large part of the nation's mind was stirred by post-survival cuts that a community agreement to secure access to health care has broken down. The increased cost of health care during recent years has not been able to cure this emotional reaction. It was. That's what's at the top. Prominently, it is the feeling of many people to ensure that health care is not as good as it might be. It is surprising that prime minister should view the lack of access to health care as a matter of meditation. I don't think there's a lot of pressure on such conclusions, especially those of the fine people who live in the country and have less access to health care than those who live in the capital area. When discussing balance, it would be good for for a prime minister to keep in mind the balance between national and capital areas. But I'd also like to say that I don't think there's any particular reason why it's hidden from him, on the contrary. A respectable president. Support to the national government has now been measured, and one quarter is satisfied with it. The very happy people are less than 10%. What attracts some attention when Machine's survey of results is that the government favors those who make money. It has a third - year share of satisfaction. Moreover, the proportion of people who feel that they have more income than average household income is lost. It's a pleasure of 40%. It is not a problem in itself, but it may tell us something about the appeal that the new government has. And because Prime Minister was talking about balance in his speech, I would like to encourage him and his government to take special note of this. It was not obvious after the election how a government would be formed, so called a complexity was high, mainly because some had had an untimely, dramatic declaration before elections and even after. But I'd like to say here that I think, and I'm convinced, in fact, that other possibilities were on the table. Another kind of government could have been formed that would have been a much wider political appeal than the right government established under the control and leadership of the uncle of Engados. The prime minister is well aware of this. But the pain we have and the satisfaction that 25% brings is the result of that choice. But the past is over. The future is the most important thing. Now, just hoping that the solid foundations laid for economic progress and prosperity in the time of the last government under the leadership of the forward party will be maintained. The good people of the country. As noted, it is necessary to attack the infrastructure structure, e.g. A major factor is health care, education, transportation, and tourism. We need to build wood safely as far as financial wisdom is concerned. Our task is to increase money to the infrastructure while improving the use of funds that are already being spent on these classes. In fact, I felt that there was a lack of policy debate in the prime minister's debate, and I missed it in the Declaration of the Governments. I felt that professional vision was missing, including. how to build a powerful business life around the country, e.g. On the basis of education, innovation, the living economy, with infinite potential for parishion. Work, growth, and well - being, values above wealth, are the standards of our candidates. To make good welfare, there must be solid work around the country, for all the people of the country. There's no reason to despair about the future of Iceland. Now that we have much to play, no one is required to suffer in need. In the years to come, we will likely receive more of the same. Inflation becomes low, economic growth will continue, the level of pay will hopefully become even stronger. But there will come a delay. So it is important to ensure our future interests as a nation. It'll be the best thing to do. People must not feel that some are more equal than others, because of the decisions taken in the field of government. Politicians are required to be servants of the people, not gentlemen. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u7	A respectable president. Dear General. Good Icelanders. It is always a special feeling to stand here in the chair of the High General Assembly, and that is especially so when the council is held, the director's recommendation. The prime minister is discussed, and a new government will begin its operation. It must be acknowledged that this feeling is even stronger now when the person standing here and my class, a bright future, is a part of the government for the first time. A bright future is involved in the government policy and in the administration of a talk at the highest level. Prime Minister. There is no room for pride, but there is also a greater amount of humility in this situation tonight. It has often occurred about the Icelandic government, but it is safe to say that over the past few months, yes, quite over the past few years, has offered an unexpected and unusual turn, but even to Iceland's people, we are getting used to it. It is very unusual that we are discussing a debate with the prime minister now, less than three months after the election, let alone after the assembly for weeks without formal share, and provide the budget of the year with no less or less. After the release of spring last year, the decision to speed up elections and fall elections by the end of October, there was an era of uncertainty with endless government talks in all directions. The election's finals put the note in which the results of the election were very vague. No clear more things were available. It was my responsibility for the senators and members of Congress to gather together for a functioning government. After a long period of pregnancy, the government of Independence Class, exorbitant, and Bears is initiated. I am absolutely certain it will be a good government. It is not founded in a hurry or with a flubber. I'm proud of the government contract that's re-enacting policy debate. Prime Minister. This government is founded on liberal and progressive values. We emphasize diversity and balance, human rights, and the future. In each case after another, all the population is seen to have access to services and rights regardless of their origins, habitats, or economy. Public access is a key theme. The Treaty clearly highlights long - term thinking, stability, and sustainability. I find this to be noble and very important. To me, it is one of our basic obligations as political leaders to take responsibility and to exercise the authority that we have to deal with. It doesn't matter how it is done. A bright future is founded on the idea of improving our practice, of improving cooperation, and of approaching the political community as a service. We take this very seriously and participate in the formation of the government, guided by it. That thought is reflected in the government covenant. We're going to work hard and do better. The first act of the government was to confirm the code of ethics. It's time to open up the Council's books. This is our real purpose. The government groups are intervening to do better. We are serious, and the emphasis on improving our work is so far from empty. It would be unsatisfactory to repeat the government's emphasis from the government. Even now, the prime minister does well in his talk. I urge all to examine the covenant and to encourage us to keep up with the material for the next few years. I could use some. And this is a cooperation project. A bright future decided to highlight the health and environment of the administrative community. I trust it to the highest. Environment Minister will review his important group of issues below. But I cannot help but mention only the matter of being a health minister to me. One of the main factors in the Health Care Professional Declaration of the Government is together, safe and accessible to health services. Despite many benefits from health care in Iceland, it needs to be better coordinated and viewed as part of the same whole. The plans of the new government aim to link better the services of health care, hospitals, home - care facilities, and nursing homes. By strengthening our health care, home - care facilities, and nursing homes, so - called basic services, people's need for more expensive and more complex services is reduced. One important way to increase the availability of people to a good service is by means of a variety of professional classes in the forward line of health care. In particular, there are psychologists and physical therapists. Better access to psychologists is part of the government's focus on improved mental health care, especially on support of children and parents. The public of the United States has repeatedly shown that the health system is a priority. The government agrees with this and puts the group in particular. It is a privilege for me to lead these important matters in the near future in cooperation with all the wonderful people working in the sector. It is safe to say that recent Icelandic politics were swinging into a russibal of extraordinary importance. The situation is unusual and new. All of us need to cultivate new customs. We need to continue to develop cooperation across classes, across more parts and smaller parts, and to improve our consultations on the whole community. We must emphasize good work habits, transparency, and honesty. On the contrary, it is not a luxury or a doll; it is absolutely necessary for us both in the government and other classes in the General Assembly. There is no need to be afraid of this. We know all about this. If there is something that the person here has learned in endless political and administrative discussions to the last few months, these changes are discussed in all categories. We're all wondering about this, and I'd like to say that voters have sent us a clear message to do better by forcing us out of our bicycles with the vague outcome of an election that forced us to leave the box. Much of this was done by voters, and I thank you for it, even though it cost us politicians all kinds of trouble and inconveniences and violations of habits and traditions. It is healthy, and it is good for the future. She is our destination, and we must focus on her. Let us not be afraid to change. Let's work together. Let's do it well and be good. - I thank those who obeyed. Have a nice trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u8	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. It is polite to wish for a newly appointed government to do business and to hope that their work will benefit the nation. However, when it has been said, it is also proper to keep it in its own proper place, how he will fulfill his promises. The same is true of classes. Clearly, if we compare the campaign of the judges with the government covenant, there is a remarkable inconsistencies. Largely improved health and education systems, extensive system changes, EU national conventions, changes in constitution - these are all cases that seem to have come up with a new, unexpected route in the administrative functions. Such promises are not to be found in the covenant. We are familiar with recent examples of food production, where meat valves were without meat and brown eggs, with an eco-friendly stamp, were little more than a physical appearance. It was called a good - for - nothing fraud, and the lips were returned. Sadly, it is not possible to vote, even though the prime chair led to power on an important report of the huge retreat of the Icelanders to the islands and others showing that the government he sat in during his last term shoveled money in the richest part of the country in the name of correction but left young and wealthy people behind. Recently, much has been discussed about the strong conditions of the economy and the rise of the State. Sure, there's been a lot of things going on with us. But things become more difficult when we speak of people as one person. Sometimes things happen that shock us. We realized that there are 340 you. Icelanders and where each one of us matters. You see, all the country's indicators and averages tell only a little story. Behind all these numbers are people of flesh and blood, and people who live in far too different terms. In Iceland, for example, you live in Iceland. over 6 thoust. Children in poverty, the ideal poverty, and the elderly need to be deprived of medical care because of lack of money. A public service simply has a loss. In such a situation, it must be stressed to equalize people's burdens. Those who have the ability to do more than spare those who have their feet and those who have their own salary. There are no such plans, unfortunately, on the contrary. The structure of infrastructure should be paid with vague expectations of growing economic systems. This will weaken the North American welfare model, the inequities will increase, and the profits will increase in number. And it will control them too. We already see that the wealthiest individuals in the country are living at the same time in fishing companies, insurance companies, financial companies, newspapers, and now, at the last, in immature, delicate rented markets. Iceland is a rich country, and here are circumstances to create one community for all. It is not enough to ride a net that grabs those who drop between ships and docks, we will be building a community that helps people to survive, allowing them to build on their strengths, a society where everyone gets an opportunity and an opportunity to do what is right. It is not just a matter of righteousness; it is the most equal society in order to be peaceful, colorful, and competitive. My fellow Americans. Now we need to look forward to the future and to the affairs of public wages, especially for young people. Young people are our most precious resource. Today, it can choose the whole world in the world, and it is less than default for Iceland to be chosen. They need a reliable job, a good public service, a wide variety of recreation, but they also need to live somewhere. These people will have a future share, and how we are going to beat them on this journey is a disaster. It is amazing that neither in the government covenant nor in the policy debate. The prime minister is to make a budget for matters of priorities. A long-term tenure market based on non-profit enterprises is a priority. It must take immediate action to prevent the exposure of young families to the level of predators and unsecured tenets. V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Business life is changing. The technological revolution will have a greater impact on our lives than most people suspect. Many general jobs will be history and will be carried out by computers or machines. When we take on flights, pay for goods in IKEA, or use home banking services, we find the dusters. It is important to make sure that the profits of this economy also come to society, not only to corporate owners, who would contribute to an even greater disparagement of property and capital. All studies show that the work that will remain done by humans will require specialized attention and education. Thus, it is vital for our success and happiness that there is going to be a great deal of work here, so how shortsighted it would be if we did not take these things seriously! Necessary education systems are not the way to do that. We need to adjust our school ministry to that new future. In it, education becomes part of a person's entire life, in some way. The days have passed when a young person will be released to the labour market with a diploma in his hand and a sure key to the future. In increasing numbers, the job life will call for creative and creative individuals, with initiative and qualities, we must start to strengthen right away in high school. This will surely cost a lot of money, but we can't afford to save on it. V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. A small nation can't afford to share in years and decades. The switch between natural resources is an example of a case that must be made in terms as well as regulations in a constitution that ensures the national right to the resources. Another and simpler matter, which is surprising that it did not succeed, is the location of the airport in Reykjavík. At the same time as we citizens of the country have a legitimate demand for good access to the government, health and education systems and culture of the capital, we also have to respect and understand the views of the smokers. The regular and efficient debate is not only a matter of health safety and health but also of the environment. With the reasonable structure of urban areas, we have one of the most important issues in climate and climate today. The capital needs a strong area of land, but it also needs a powerful capital. A person who has reached the moon must be able to solve a simple technical solution of this kind so that all views are cared for. Especially when it comes to it, a practical solution can directly help everyone if we keep the cards in proper place. Similarly, Congress cannot lie indefinitely in its holes. Basically, we disagree over many things, and we should be sure to handle them. On the other hand, if we look at the end of the election, however, the council should be able to make a wide range of peace in important matters. I'm dealing with environmental and climate issues, the Constitution, refugee and marine waters. With Icelanders, my fellow Americans, we can live under the same conditions as our brothers in the North countries. In cooperation with our sisters and the labor movement, we have seen the characteristics of the North American welfare model and how we can strengthen it in the new century. We need to consider three basics: the well-being, where the government guarantees equal opportunities for all, organized labour markets, where employees, employers, and the public are joint parties to collective agreements, and responsible economic regimes. Unfortunately, governments over the years have lost opportunities to establish peace in a labour market by driving a right - to - face tax and welfare bitch. All evidence indicates that a new government will follow the same path. Thus, there will continue to be a barrier to well - being. The government does not give a clear promise of how to cope with the problems of thousands of young children who are in need, of young people's housing problems, or of increasing social division. This is not going to be a pleasure. My fellow Americans. Icelandic officers have won large stages of victory. A workaholic law, social security, equal pay by men and women, as well as the credit fund of Icelandic students are examples of compensation where they put their biggest hand on a plow. Then we will make countless contributions to promote business freedom and open up communication with other countries. V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. While we are a temporary minor council member, we will continue to fight for our ideals: for the public interest, for the specialities, and by all means against the loss of the democracy for wealth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u9	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In nature, an intelligent person is usually a optimistic person. Rather than worrying about the future, he views it as an opportunity to do better, to go further. I have a bright look at our future in Iceland. Work will be solved, and the problem will be more difficult. It is the duty of politicians to direct our good society to an even better source of long - term thinking. Hence, it is fitting that there should be one of the two key practices of the government covenant of a new government. We will take advantage of our opportunities and face challenges. In recent years, much has been done very well. In any case, the political fanciful spirit is the fact that Iceland's situation is envyable. The basis for all of this is the national effort, the desire to use the opportunity and courage of the government to cope with unprecedented problems. Any progress begins as an idea, seeds. In the right setting, such ideas can increase the value of life and may even change our lives. We are fortunate to live in a land full of opportunities, and where there are people's opportunities to take these opportunities, there are more opportunities than in most places. Having an idea become a reality is less than a dream but in most cases within reach. When we hear of spectacular discoveries and advances, we tend to focus on the almost superhuman genius of certain individuals and to underestimate the soil they raised, the opportunities they received, the education they enjoyed, and the circumstances they enjoyed. What will determine how we will fare in the future is how well we can secure an environment that will contribute to the enjoyment of everyone's abilities. If we work to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to develop their abilities to the full, we will be surprised to learn that so few people have achievements in sports, outstanding scientists, successful artists, now or large - scale national teams of women and men. Such a society is desirable and healthy. Giving all opportunities and creating the right setting also involves showing respect for the different interests of people. All too few people are attending industrial and technical education here. It must be ignored. Industrial education is important for our community and brings us more creative society. Industrial education also involves challenging and exciting jobs. From now on, the most precious opportunity of intelligent and novelty lies in the vastest sense of their words. This is true in all areas, in all sectors, not only with private sources, but also in a variety of public service, a variety of welfare services, education, and others. It has shown us how intelligent and innovation have contributed to the existence of Icelandic companies that use more than 95% of the cod, but we use less than half of it. There is no doubt that similar opportunities abound. Another of our primary roads, energy and industrial sectors, also offer offensives, and they are much more diverse than new activations and factories, although the debate is eager to get stuck there. The company in this sector buys the products and services of hundreds of Icelandic companies for tens of billions of dollars a year, machines and equipment that Icelandic companies have developed and designed from scratch and are now even selling to farms around the world. This factor is often underestimated when it discusses the economic importance of industry, and it is likely that this will draw additional income through the intelligence of weapons around the country. Good citizens of the country. There is no need to expand the growth of tourism. The wise infrastructure, environmental protection, and safety of tourists are urgent. The opportunity for tourism is greater and varied than it is to increase the number of people. Increased quality, increased ability, increased interest, these are all important goals. The Agency is developing studies for tourism that will increase quality, value, and profitability in the article, which will include: on experience from Scotland and Canada The opportunity for tourism is especially in the country, and it is important to make good use of it. Most of us want our country to be strong and prosperous. It is part of our self - image as a nation, and we need it, just as the country needs the capital. In many parts of the country, we can see how tourists have established a wide range of services, museums, restaurants, and restaurants, leaving behind a wide range of artistic and cultural events. All of this makes our country stronger and more interesting. Let's note that companies connected with tourism that have flourished throughout the past few years have been emerging. In recent years, we have seen pioneers succeed in increasing numbers. It must be ensured that the soil for their creative and creative activities will remain. The advantage of intelligence is that, in contrast with most other resources, it knows no limits, as long as we are careful not to limit it ourselves by reducing the ability of people to use it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u10	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. In my short career, I've heard from a symposium such as the one that can't be destroyed twice, that men can't get all their demands, and now at last, that the future is hidden from us. What else? We who are older than two times, both councilmen and voters, must wish for a more simplistic way of speaking than those who qualify for a school stage but hardly a General Assembly. We want to see and hear discussions about real problems, reliable progress, different ideologies, and most important of all, a policy debate under a title, deals with goals, and replaces popular concepts such as stability, balance, vision, or no poetry. I don't think of what is being pursued by a new government, such as increasing innovation, money to health care, or anything else that could be seen as an increase in cohesion, equations, and improved income of tens of thousands. There are many of us, though, who see it as the highest light. The prime minister mentions his policy and his fourth government, since his talk is primarily about goals, not means, not solutions. As a result, we are little closer to what awaits the inhabitants of the land for the next four years - and yet, the built - in building that can be paid by increasing wealth and economic growth. They're a non-filled vector. Both are based on the cookie theory: Only by means of the cake, working people gain only a larger portion. This does not answer tens of thousands of dollars for better health care, transportation, education systems, and social security. It simply goes there for the thought of economics of capitalism. It can protect the interests of 10% of the population of people who own 60% of their possessions, or 1% of those who receive 44% of all capital incomes. There's a lot of money, beyond all the economics that can be taken off for the combination without society breaking down. In this regard, we can choose between the right and the left, and it may be a dissatisfaction with a new government on a poll that will reflect a patient view of inadequacy in correcting damaged infrastructure and strengthening the country when enough material is available. V.E.G. When economic growth is high, prime minister is criticized by a number of economists for the State's increased expenses. As a geographer, I can say that similar numbers of economists, let alone geologists, are well - thought - out. There is another choice between the right and the left, but there is no need to conceal the political and controversial wisdom of practical science, which is far from like physical laws. Protecting the rich is but one category of economics at the highest level. Minister selects himself and hiss. Good fellows. To mark policy and direction, a realistic analysis of community status is necessary. Dose should be considered that measures in the health system have induced adverse reactions in the general population, such as those mentioned above. The general public finds what is wrong with the mind and body: The reality of the health system is dark, and in opposition to a new government, public analysis is best: the system in general is at the limit of endurance and the level of service, in many places where it is not acceptable. If the analysis of ten ministers is the same as that of prime minister, there is little chance that solutions will be accepted. At the end of two things, Mr. President. We only have 13 years to live on the Paris convention. The next step is to explain what to do but to create green incentives, grow forests, improve land healing, and transport energy exchange, as noted earlier. The number of projects is far greater, cost billions of dollars, and need much cooperation, as well as careful objectives in all sectors of the environment. This is where the world's most important case will be held in the long run. Bjarni Benediktsson is at multiplicity. Second, the minister and his fourth management avoid most things that can be controlled by reactions in this article, i.e. In spite of progress, the rapidly growing number of tourists and jungle laws still exist there. The endurance of the situation, the region and the whole country, if sustainable, natural, social, and economic conditions are to exist - which they do not - require discussions and decisions that seem to be of little value in the Treaty. Of course, wealth management goes to the biggest industry. Finally: In a large, rich country, a 100 - year - old monarchy is a remarkable experiment and achievement. In that same century, equations, mainly because of the struggle, grew long in front of them. But for three or four decades, there has been an increase in the quality and well - being of overwork, such a vision is quite like a vision. Prime Minister and members of the government. That's a very important thing. It is about him and leading to a different community, but our conversation here at the council will be whole - souled, conflict as well as cooperation, and so will society. - I appreciate your audition.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u11	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Direct democracy and self-determination. Criticism and enlightened policy. Civil rights. Peace of privacy. Transparency and responsibility. Free of information and expression. This is the basic pirate policy, our path to a better future society, where people are put first, and they are protected from the abuse of the more powerful. In recent years, there's been a lot of things that have happened with Pirata's policy. The promise of a national law on dealing with the EU was betrayed. The results of the National Court on a new constitution were set up on a committee. Ministers secret the public information and lied to the nation and assembly. Despite the fact that the common people want to establish priorities over other public services, health and education systems are starving. During this election period, the Piranians are outside the government and will play a role in reasonableness and determination. Pirata's position is no matter who their spokesmen are. Pirates are materialistic, and they work accordingly. The Declaration and the Constitution of the Government contains a number of issues that the Piranians could support if they were well implemented. However, we have the courage to criticize as severely as is needed to protect the interests of those to whom we work, to protect the interests of the people of the land. As an example of such criticism, the prime minister's debate claims that the budget of 2017 was approved in good agreement at the General Assembly. It is at best the thought of a prime minister. Pirates never experienced such reconciliation. Piranus had to fight that there would be no surgery in the health system. Piranians had to fight. Budgets were saved by a contract on increased contributions to health, education, transportation, and law enforcement. There was no reconciliation, because no one was particularly pleased with the results. Piranha reject such follow-up explanations and demand an honest response. Good citizens of the country. Pirat's vision of a fair and fair society begins here. Pirate policy is clear. In the last election, we stressed the restoration of the health system, restoration of trust and tackle corruption, ensuring a righteous distribution of rich resources from common resources, increasing access to decision making, and expanding our Community Convention. Piranha have solutions to health, environment, housing, education, older people's affairs, disability and resources, solutions that are suitable for people. Solutions we make together and take responsibility for each other. Pirates want corporate ownership to be valuable and accessible because interest stakes and tax collections are a problem. Pirates want a fair election system. The democracy is only as good as the election system allows. We will begin this terms with a government lacking democratic authority. The government groups are combined with a smaller proportion of votes behind them, fewer votes than the administrative groups combined. The government has more voters than the government, yet the government has a greater proportion of members. The government has legal authority, not democratic. Lack of democratic authority is not the only problem with the current government. People recently found out that Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson had a report, with information covering the public interest, a secret to the voters. Not enough, but a minister found himself trying to lie about when the report was completed. Pirantics want legalized ministers of truth because it is criminal if a minister lies to a council or to a nation. Now the ultimate enlightened. A medical minister to the code of the new Ministers would have been approved at a recent meeting. These guidelines are very good and include articles that include the following: They say a minister does not cover information and take the initiative to publish it. The hypocrisy of the prime minister, Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, is perfect in this matter. Good citizens of the country. Today, a new General is testing the type of work to be done. Will it be a democratic work with a transparent and responsibility guided by, or will it continue to misuse power, Panama, and corruption?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u12	Mr. President. Respectably the General. Good listeners. There are many strong and positive points in the Treaty of the Government of Independence, the Revolution, and the Future. Among the less important are mental - health struggles and the development of aging. It's also an over-reaching anti-tax charge and a focus on green taxes. In fact, the emphasis on environmental matters is great, as is the emphasis on consumer choice of agrienvironmental rights as well as on salaries, improved sexual activity, and definition of digital sexual abuse in penal law. I rejoice with regulations to further open Icelandic society in a variety of ways, as well as with the money policy, as it were. Don't forget about her, man alive. However, I will not cancel any more of the words in listing the unique highlights of the government covenant. I want to spend time with what's on my mind now, equality in its vast form, liberalness, and open society. It is a joy to be part of a government that puts equality, well - being, and liberalness ahead of others. This involves the vision that is a red thread in the government covenant. Only on equality. The year 2017 still contains an unexplained amount of pay for the sex. One thing the government is going to stress is to eliminate these differences. With a legal match, we not only underline Iceland's good position when it comes to the equality of the sexes but that we want to do even better, we want to eliminate the differences that remain. In addition, it is also a pleasure to see a company such as CCP, one of our best - known companies in Iceland, use this opportunity when it received the equally pay card recognition in its labour policy to investigate the pay of the domestic and foreign employees of the company in particular. You see, the equality has many pictures. But more is involved. Studies show that anxiety and depression are growing among young people. It is simply our priority to intervene in a preventive manner so that the problem does not grow and becomes out of control for our children - and the system - when the children grow up. So we are going to increase the availability of a mental - health service, e.g. by making psychological services available in high school We also need to keep in mind the need to take into account the need for selective action against standards and genderism in order to root out deeply entrenched prejudices in the community. Directed against people with psychiatric problems. We all want to live in a safe and free society. Not by default. One of our little community's greatest injuries is the horrors of sexual abuse and domestic violence. All of us need to work together in that fight. Our community's well-being is at stake. One person who passes by is too much. It's no more complicated than that. A respectable president. In view of the world scene today, it is difficult to avoid panic. Almost anywhere near or far, there are some disturbing developments that have reached or are close to taking root, even in established democracies in which there is a real danger. How often lies are the first signs of taking action against women's freedom and well - being! Then there are queer people, elsewhere judges, teachers, mediamen, and, of course, foreigners. In this light, it is even more important that we Icelanders promote signs of liberality, tolerance, and equality not only here on land but as a guide to international cooperation. These points are in the spirit of restoration. We believe that we will make Iceland a better place for all of us by supporting our liberality and equality in as many areas of society as possible by not forgetting that we must never let our guard down when it comes to democracy and human rights, by having respect for different principles of life. As it says at the beginning of the Constitution, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland is to be desirable for all who want to participate in building an Icelandic community for the future. And I believe that the best way we do things is by working together and dealing with the countries closest to us, whether in business or culture. Good listeners. Under the influence of one of Michelle Obama's many inspired talks, former First Lady of the United States: In Icelandic society we do not make a distinction between ourselves and the others, we don't want a discussion that says "How are we going to do it?" In free, responsible, equalized, and prospective Icelandic society, there's only ◯by. - I appreciate your audition.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The economic restoration of Iceland has been very successful. Government funds have increased to Class A, including Because of the debt of the state's treasure, the great insurrection of currency, and the good outside state of the people. During this period, tens of thousands of years ago, tens of thousands of millions of dollars are spent on budgets of the last year. So I'm not entirely sure that this has something to do with a more recent order. The financial and economic minister as he seems to think that the increase in the credit balance of the state is a long run and he has only just begun his work. A fundamental change has occurred since the time of the nation's clean foreign position has now been positive for the first time since measurements began. The late bank has responded to this massive influx inflation. The currency supply has become more than 40% of the land's production, but the cost at that time is considerable. One of the biggest projects in the economy has to deal with the changes that have taken place in the business balance. Good citizens of the country. One part would be setting up Iceland's Stability Fund. Such a fund would have been one of the main objectives of promoting fluctuation in the economy. Nations that are rich in resources like Iceland have set up a similar budget to better control the economy. The Norwegian oil reserve is one of the finest examples of such a treasure. Similar roles have led to the creation of a fund. For example, in the Treaty of a new government, such a fund is mentioned, and I consider it to be very positive. In general, resource expenditures, both stock production and growth, are covered. It is possible, yes, but it would take a long time to build a good - looking head for bearing fruit. It would be more efficient to use a part of the stability programme as the head of the stability fund, to purchase a portion of the Pentateuch, and then gradually expand the fund with incomes of the country's resources, i.e. Sea exits, energy sector and tourism. I think most of the people in the country realize that economic restoration is well under way. On the other hand, social reconciliation in society has been missing. In other words, little support for the government is evidence of this. With the politicians, we should listen closely to what was the message in the last election. Good citizens of the country. In the advance, we believe that the greatest project ahead is that money is priority for health care. The Icelandic medical system is to deal with what is best in the world. We want to invest further in the interiors of the system and take progressive steps so that all can enjoy a fine service regardless of the economic situation. So we will suggest at a council to assign a health minister to start working on a comprehensive health program for Iceland. Healthcare professionals should be agreed with healthcare professionals, including The advances in technology in health care should be taken into account. We want Iceland to be in the front of the group and to be able to offer one of the most technologically advanced health services available. The nation calls for better health care, and we must shoulder that responsibility. We all care about Iceland's competition. One factor is our education system preparing the future of the nation. Internationally speaking, our schools have been yielding. We need to respond to that trend. The education system is one of the basics of society, and the future rests on its strength. We in the advance group stress the pursuit of national education with equal opportunities and interests to guide it. We want to invest in the education system so that Iceland will reach the average OECD state level funding in 2020. Good citizens of the country. Trouble comes with every man's glory. In Icelandic economic conditions, it is important that we handle matters properly. We are faced with unique opportunities to do well and set priorities. It is vital that the Parliament cooperates well with one another. I wish the new government to be well-being, and I think it will be the best way to manage and keep it from the smaller parts. - Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u14	A respectable president. Nice and meet you. Brighter mornings or cream factory. Dear boy. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. The choice between different emphasis is not pain but freedom. It is to be the solution of every government to provide for the future and for future generations. Governments in Iceland have too often appeared as reactents, and many people are afraid to respond to their words; financial crisis, environmental crisis, or an overcrowded hospital. Such events cover the surface when the best way to resolve is long gone. The best way is for vision and prevention, whether it is health, financial, or environment, and natural protection. It would be best for all of us politicians to prepare a better community, to be a step ahead of the situation, so that the future of future generations is less like a newspaper but rather carefully prepared and guarded. Climate change by man is a fact. We know that warm water at Iceland's coasts and acidification with the related effects on fish stocks is the result of climate change. We see our glaciers melt and decrease from year to year. We don't know if Golf current will stay strong and policy and make the land inhabited. But we know what to do to cope with this disastrous development. It's not an option to wait. We need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by all means necessary. Bind the increased amount of carbon from the atmosphere in the soil and vegetation. We must also reduce resource waste. This isn't a new discussion. It has taken place on a global scale since the 1987 Brundtland Report, the concept of sustainable development. Things have gone by slowly since then, but I hope that the Paris convention will speed up the global response. A respectable president. Good Icelanders. I have a positive attitude toward the Environment and Resource Ministry. A bright future is a green category that wants environmental and natural protection to become the foundation for all government policies, whether in the field of resource abuse, education, well-being, or public health. We want to follow the UN's sustainable goals to promote the prosperity and well - being of the entire population. We'd like to introduce a green low-carbon economy in Iceland based on sustainable use of natural resources, the full use of industrial products and more efficient innovations in the field of biotechnology and ingenuity. It is a joy to see that this theme is in the government covenant of a new government. To accomplish this, however, a powerful cooperation and cross - political reconciliation must be made toward goals. The Declaration of this Government states that environmental and environmental protection should have a significant place in the coming years. It is largely out of the reach of new environmental investment agreements because of the building of contaminated industry. It is quite clear, however, that all Ministers must work together to meet the climate management strategy so that Iceland can meet its international commitments in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I will use myself to promote sustainable resource use in the work of this government and to increase the value of the derived resources through better use, not with increasing application. I will also follow through on the fact that publicisation of resources will be transparent. Possessions will be conducted for Landactivation including: will be the goal of maximising the value of energy and the success of the company with the Icelandic and national sectors. Similarly, protection will be high in this ideal time period. A Framework Programme for Nature Protection and Use will be submitted to the General Assembly for approval. It is also a special pleasure to mention that we will work on a comprehensive plan for the protection of the Middle East and will aim for the development of a highland park. It must be done in conversation and reconciliation with various parties, and we have already begun our business. Then there are many unsolved terms of peace that I will use to finish, to form the peace of the Kernians and the Presumptuous Beings. A respectable president. Iceland is sometimes heard to be so light in the context of the nations that our actions are not important to us. I disagree. Everything matters. A small society in a productive land has every opportunity to respond more rapidly than its larger ones. We can and should set the goal of international transport in terms of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, in nature protection, and in adapting to the future cooling economy. We are to be the land that other nations look to and learn from. By doing so, we will do our part in the international and collective work of protecting the earth from future generations. Good luck to all of us. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u15	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. A beautiful promise was made in the Sermon on the Mount. Indeed, there is a need to expand our community's infrastructure and build up basic services, and that was also a clear demand of the public for elections. However, I do not trust this government to do it decently, let alone to be guided by its actions and righteousness. The government's leaders are two, according to prime minister; balance and vision. It doesn't sound too bad, but I know, and I think the people also know from previous experience with the activities of the conservatives, that our understanding of those terms is very different. Balance in their sense means that all tricks can be applied. Whether it's hiding money from the tax, government reports ahead of elections or false promises and decorations, are hiding them from the public. It is true, however, that the prime minister says that society is a collection of individuals it builds, with different visions and needs, and that is certainly the equal purpose of their life. But in order for society to function properly, all must do their part. The Panama Documents show that a large group of people choose to store their wealth in their taxes, thus in a position to decide for themselves, how much or whether they contribute to the combination but still benefit from all that society has to offer. Because people feel that the balance is balanced because others bear their burdens on how the welfare system works. What the Panama Documents informed us about is certain evidence of a moral breach that occurred in Iceland, when many took advantage of inadequate regulations and low-supervising to reflect on others. Incontrovertibleness grew in society, and greed reached new heights. These behaviours were and are lesionous and must be eradicated. It is not possible to talk about balance, equal opportunity, or reconciliation in a society where it is tolerated. Recently I read the novel Island, by Sigríður Hagalín Björnsdóttir, and that book made me very think about it. This chilling novel left me with thoughts of how easily civilized communities can collapse during trauma. How fragile communities really are. It is accepted as a family and to be an Icelander, a place of unity and swimming, and a brief time for special attention, prejudice, and extreme nationalism. The book raised thoughts about what could have happened in this country after the collapse of the economic fall, but more about the many disasters that both history and present are about the collapse of civilization. When people think they're no longer part of society's game rules. All of us want a good, secure future for children and offspring, and we Icelanders have been blessed. But there are many disasters and evils around us. In a few years, we have watched Syria come to an end, and we are at a loss when hundreds of thousands of innocent people are sacrificed in brutal wars. We cannot avoid the refugee problem. There's only one earth, one hotel ground, and me Icelanders aren't the only guests. One thing that drives refugees in search of a better life is the peace and climate problem, and many want to come to us. We are to face this problem with compassion and compassion and to treat others as we would like to be treated. Iceland is a population of people, as the prime minister pointed out in his talk, meaning that we must respond, very firmly and clearly, against prejudice, extremes, and abusive speech. In many parts of the world, extreme nationalisticism is increasing. We have to face such a situation firmly. So, finally, I would like to encourage all Icelandic political parties not to connect in any way to the popuulian extremes or national groups in the north, in Europe, or in the west of the ocean, and to avoid flirting with such ideologies. My fellow Americans. Let us all take sides with human rights and democracies, equality, and justice. Let us all take a firm stand against prejudice and pride. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u16	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Tonight, we have heard the talks of the senators from all seven categories that are held at the General Assembly during this term. Understandably, their views and priorities differ, and they are to be respected. Respect for the opinions of others is very important, and that is not the only correct view. Often, the angle of view, where you look from, affects the outcome. In the Icelandic clock Halldór Laxness's novel, Arnas Arneus Arneus in their conversation with the Aydaline sisters about the truth: There is a mountain in the Kinn in the north, named Bakánkur, if you see it on the east side, Mount Ogunuguguing, if you stand west of it, but from outside the Shiversa, they call it Gatat. It is my opinion and belief that the government that has now taken over the administrations of the country, with President Bjarni Benediktsson, will work with integrity to further development for the entire country's benefit. It is of utmost importance that we are aware that each link in the whole Iceland chain is important, as if the capital area could not thrive without national or national boundaries without capitals. We are one nation in one country, and the better we can work together for upbuilding things, the better off we are as a nation. The roles, or jobs, are many and varied, but if they cultivate a conscientious spirit and are as effective as possible to whom they can do so. Compared with the rest of the world, we live in a very good way. It is good to think about it from time to time and to be happy, joyful, and positive. They spread their feelings and contribute to the success of good things. But negativeness and pessimism weaken. The Declaration of Independence Class Governments, Action and the Bears of the Future lead to balance and vision, such as the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers and others have clearly followed here. The community's infrastructure is emphasized, and it is urgent, especially with regard to the nation's new, less - important occupations, the tourism, which spreads its fragrance in many places, and still adds to the importance of good conditions to travel through our country in a safe way. Thus, growth in transport development in all areas will be encouraged by the economic and security of the foregrounds and to improve habitats and opportunities throughout the country. Then the government will use for a solution to the decades of the future of Reykjavík's airport and will trust in the entrance of national flight and medical flight to the future, an enormous task, especially for all the inhabitants of the country. There are old truths and new relationships that are in line with the environment, a well - organized service, and a positive attitude in any aspect of life. With the ever - increasing number of tourists, it is necessary to ensure the safety of the tourists and the rest of the country in every way possible. Increased legal care is indeed necessary, on highways and in towns. The security of police officers must also be guaranteed. Police officers are not to be alone on duty in large areas, as are known throughout the country. It is vital, therefore, that law enforcement is being built up, especially on national level, as stated in the government's policy declaration. At any school, it is taking an important job to educate young people, train them for future work, teach them to criticize and creative thinking, to look ahead, and to see opportunities to do better for themselves and their community. We need to be in a position to meet all other requirements for any school that will result in modified community, occupational, multiplicity, and globalization. The government will use itself to advance all levels of education in order to meet a challenging role that will guide forwardness. V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Congratulations on a new government that will be the government of all the people and all the land. The work will speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u17	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Our greatest challenge now lies in two huge tasks, human assignments, and so human efforts, i.e. Climate change and the world's increasing inequality It is surprising how climate change and inequities relate to an unbreakable bond. In most cases, the pollution of the early industry has remained in the hands of low - paying workers who have worked in unsatisfactory work conditions around the world. All of us must unite in a climate of warming and increasing inequities. Don't we have the cleanest water and the best air quality on earth? Maybe. But we need to work far more effort than we have done in recent years to cope with climate change. We need to take the Paris meeting seriously and start real action that works. What about the inequities? Not all of us have it pretty good here, with a strong economic situation like the highest. The prime minister pointed out in his policy discourse? Impartiality is a fact and, unfortunately, is increasing worldwide. This, in fact, testifies to that fact. The new Oxfam report showing that eight men have more money money than half of all mankind. A respectable president. There is no reason to believe that inequities do not increase in Iceland, and there are strong signs that this has happened in the past few years. On this point, statistics show that the richest 1 percent in Iceland earns close to half of the capital income and that the richest fifth of the population has 87% of its own money in the country. And the actions of the last government, such as the correction of debt, also increased inequities. It has now been found that the huge operation of giving 72.2 billion from a government fund to a certain part of the nation was the most beneficial and most profitable to the population. The 20% of Icelanders with the highest income received a total of 22 billion from government funds. At the same time as health, education, and other infrastructure funds have been lacking. A respectable president. The rich continue to grow much richer in Iceland as they are elsewhere. We're getting worse. This is a serious matter. There is no social covenant that rich people will grow richer while the poor remain and have less time left between their hands. It has nothing to do with democracy to make sure that all of us have money left out for the more material things. It has nothing to do with democracy that a society that has an abundance of natural resources cannot divide it equally. There is no social agreement that children who are less wealthy parents are lacking and have less access to society's quality than children who are more wealthy parents. You see, there is no reconciliation of inequities. Opinions are disturbing from all ethical standards of righteous society. A respectable president. The prime minister is always talking about balance in his policy speech. It may not be surprising that the prime minister seeks balance, since the last governments to which an independent party has not directly contributed to social, political, or economic balance. There was no balance in determining the construction of Chárle chicken activation or setting Iceland on the list of proselytized countries because of the invasion of Iraq. There was no balance in the economic collapse eight and a half years ago or in the leak case or in Energy or in the Panamas during the last term. One of the characteristics of the word balances that prime minister would like to seek is that something is as heavy as quiet, calm, and calm. But Icelandic society should not be heavy and quiet. Icelandic society is not supposed to be a stable society of hindsights and conservatives. It is supposed to be in constant motion and in progress. That's what we do. by highlighting education and opening their arms to those who turn to us for new opportunities. If the prime minister intends to emphasize these two things, I rejoice. Surely, it is the desire of most of us that there be peace and quiet here. But should we be calm and calm? Why don't we just calm down and set that the resources we're making are not evenly divided? Should we be calm and set aside that four or six thousand Icelandic children live in poverty and want? Should we be calm and calm about the fact that Icelandic big business people and politicians take their money out of the Icelandic economy, from our common funds, and hide on the islands of the country? We cannot be told that this should be a balance, that we should remain calm and calm as invigorating in Icelandic society. My fellow Americans. Vision has nothing to do with increasing inequities. Progress is to reduce inexorably and effectively reduce climate change, work together to make peace in the community, where all can enjoy themselves and have the same opportunities regardless of gender, class, or status. That should be our whole objective. - I thank those who obeyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u18	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. V.E.G. Ministers. Dearest nation. We must learn from experience. In a new government's tongue, stability, stability, vision, and balance will prove to be an old drop. There is, however, no farsighted point in evangelizing the same state of affairs. To proclaim continued secretism, majority disrespect, and irresponsibility is not a balance. A balanced approach to a broken foundation leads to an imbalance and eventually to a nod. This is so well - known, but some of us are quick to forget. As money flows in, some of us can see a single dollar and forget all we should have learned about active democracy, professional administration and fairer economy, that magazine statistics are not the beginning and the end is the responsibility of politicians. V.E.G. The prime minister pointed out earlier that a new government would take over a good external situation, and that is correct. The stream of travel is multiplied year after year by year, by the property of currency incomes, by too much macroil swam to Iceland, and by the local economy. Indeed, these good external circumstances have a positive effect on the economy, but they are not political. The Maori did not come to Iceland to be corrected for his mortgages, and tourists are not drawn to the country because of falling fishing costs. Our responsibility lies in how we adapt to our changing circumstances, that is the political question. Economic growth cannot be proud of when we cannot provide people with vital health care or mental - health care, ensure aesthetizing human life, low - paying provisions, or adequate circumstances for students. The Pirats and I would like to use external circumstances to save our welfare system. We also want to take advantage of the opportunity to finally fix what has always been wrong in Icelandic society, all that was revealed to us so hard in the collapse, and then has fallen apart. Good Icelanders. We need, in effect, to ensure political responsibility, active democracy, and professional government. We need strong surveillance agencies, increased translucency and freedom of information, broad human rights, fair election systems, national resources and increased sustainableity. We need a new constitution that guarantees these things, and we need to respect these values by our actions at council. It seems that a new government hasn't learned anything. Stability and stability are the motto, the government's contract is foam, and the council begins with a severe majority crisis. Everything we learned seems to be forgotten because of good external circumstances. Everything's fine, because it's all right. But this isn't always gonna work out. We need to learn from history, just as a compulsive gambler has to change his behavior even if he gets a prize every once in a while. Our democracy is not okay even if the currency paid is coming into the country. Abduction of the national natural resources is not acceptable, although it is evident in high national production. Our politics are not okay. For one thing, the public's trust in politics is in historically low, and the election of public elections has never been lower. More important, this distrust and lack of interest may seem the most apparent among the young generations, among us who will inherit this land. Those who readily speak of farsightedness may want to take that message seriously. The message is, for example, a message. That it is not all right for the minister of the taxpayers to have a tax treasure company and for a banker to ask for his behalf: Do you need to have the holding of property? It is not okay for the same minister to decide on his own if he is to postpone a report on Iceland's property in taxes, and it certainly is not okay for that minister to say no when he is called to the Generals' meeting on the subject. And, no, it's also not okay to go to the election to fight the world's amateur politics and then lead to the highest esteem of a man who has repeatedly committed that very thing. Good Icelanders. Pirat and I haven't forgotten that as a nation we have to make major changes in our systems, in our democracy, and in how we do things in politics. The good news is that the chance is alive. Despite everything, the government of those elections fell, and groups speaking for radical change, though some of them seem to have run away, received much of the votes. But we do not give up, we continue to fight for responsible politics and righteous society - against instability, corruption, and pride of power. We won't forget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u19	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Thank you very much for me tonight. Thank you for growing up in a generous democratic state and for having been allowed to live here in security at dangerous times. Thank you for being a citizen in a state of justice, in which individual freedom and human rights are held in high esteem. It is a privilege to be able to deal with liberal affairs at a time when liberalness is under attack in the world and is reaching them from both the right and the left. I was assigned to fight for liberal affairs at the General Assembly. I take it very seriously. I can proudly tell them and other Americans that the policy presented in the government Treaty is the most liberal that has ever been offered in the beginning of a scheduled period of time here. This is a political agreement where the main objective of Iceland is to be desirable for all who want to participate in creating an Icelandic future society, a covenant that deals specifically with the importance of rights, equality, environmental protection, particularly on the importance of rightness, freedom of business and international cooperation. It is a covenant that all liberal Icelanders can take pride in. Freedom comes with responsibility. A General Assembly is, for example, a member of the United States of America. Have confidence in how to manage public funds as best you can. The fact is, the majority of the people chose classes that either spoke to a private or a lower tax system. This shows that the people of the land want to be responsible for the funds they are paying in common funds and that infrastructure, health care, and education will take priority over the next few years. Of course, that government will live up to its expectations. At the same time, we are to be careful. We need to be in the best interests of potentially economic downturns. If they succeed, the potential challenges or challenges in their country will not be as difficult as they have seen. We are to be ambitious and resolved to escape winter with clear vision and careful planning. A vision. A future view is needed for economic and money, but as is true in foreign affairs, the tribunals have become closely linked. Iceland is an island, but not in the sense that it can survive in isolation. The safety and prosperity of the Icelanders depend entirely on the positive and active interaction of society in general with neighboring and around the world. It is often forgotten that this interaction has to do with virtually every aspect of our daily life. We can go free and carefree because alliances guarantee peace and stability in our part of the world. Like any telecommunication and trade, transportation is based on treaties. Then basic human rights are also defined and protected in cooperation with other countries. Iceland's involvement in such contracts and the protection of Icelandic interest is based on the guarantee of national sovereignty. One of the tools Iceland has to protect the sovereignty and to protect its interests is effective foreign service. Almost all the relevant international tax agreements that Iceland is to have been made to include in the foreign service, but it is an enormously important tool to promote the global interest and interest care. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. As a small country, Iceland has to keep an eye on other people, watch international events, and sail between holes in the waves facing in the coming decades. A small country such as Iceland cannot defend its sovereignty through economic and military means. Iceland can only defend its sovereignty through credibility. That is why it is of vital importance that we keep our cards to a good degree. We need to continue to build our mental image internationally, both as a member of the international network and as partners of the international organisations we are involved in. We will also need to keep building a positive, realistic self - image. That's what we do. with responsible economic management, building strong infrastructure in the public sector and good governance. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u20	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Now we have read the Mosaic Law covenant. We've been listening to the debate. But we are no closer to what this government was formed for. Was it just because it was considered in a better option than the continued uncertainty, continued control crisis, followed by the strangest elections of the last few decades? What are the goals, I don't talk about the methods? We don't know, and we're nothing closer after tonight's discussion. It was very clear that when a new prime minister was asked that in the media a few days ago, the issue of a new government during its first session was all he could think of was to mention a financial program, likely a national financial program. It's a legal document that the secretary of finance puts out every year, and it's out of control for this government of her first council. The minister might as well have followed this by saying that this would likely be a committee, and then he could expect a kitchen - day discussion at the end of the day. That would be what stood out. Nothing new, no direction, no vision. When the government began in 2013, there was a vision, not only a vision, but a policy on how to implement that vision. It was immediately started in preparation, and only six months after the government began the attack on huge changes. This is where people tell us, mixed with some phrases, that the first year of evaluation, assessment of the health system, money policy, calls for multi-group groups, and probably international consultations too, and then they see what comes out of it. Of course, we should rejoice, a dignified president, over what may be more important to the formation of this government, and that the two - headed category Backhold/BF should have left nearly all its emphasis on the campaign campaign at the time of the administration, at least. on paper. But what happens behind the scenes? The Chairman of the Archipelago/BF is a notorious potta of his own opinion. He's taking on a plump, not just for himself, but for others as well. What scheme was behind the creation of this government? What was an appropriate plot, so I'll use the words of the Chairman of Correction, when the government was formed? For example, what did it take? The independent party to give in order to restore the restoration and support of its party and bring them into harmony with it? In fact, I noticed that the new secretary of finance was the reason to put in with a new prime minister when a meeting was being introduced to the government and told him that he should be careful not to spend too much from the box he would hold around. It may not be so strange, for I have never heard the chairman of the Independence Party act specifically as to how much he has managed to raise the financial expenses of the state from year to year. I don't think that happened before in the history of the second class until now. But what about the rest? What about the requirements of organizations that came under such names as On Icesave and Yes of the EU? What will be the appropriate place in cooperation with those categories? When it comes to going through what financial system we're going to have in our country, where will it be appropriate to reevaluate it? What will be an appropriate guide in dealing with the European Union? In fact, a new prime minister took the Secret Bank with him when the boxes were taken from Eaglehöli to the Council of Control. Why? There must be some reason. What does the new prime minister intend to do with the Sensitive Bank? In fact, it was noted that money policy should be examined, but how? The Independence Party wants, I think, independent money policy, another political category of currency advice, and the third one walk in the EU and so solve the situation. How will this be solved, and how will the yoke and insurance be dealt? According to the current prime minister for years, or early terms, an assessment in the Ministry of finance was made to work out of insurance system. Is it possible that the magazines and the work have followed in the boxes when Eaglehöli was transferred to the Management Board or that all of them went to the paper counter? There must be a time to reveal, a respectable president. My time is almost gone, so my plans to commend some of my advisers - not many - have thus disappeared for a while, but there will be some time later. The key point is this: With very few exceptions, this government has a vague vision, limited direction, and no means of implementing it. But while these groups are in the government, we will likely have to hope that this will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u21	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'm going to allow myself to be optimistic in this sermon tonight. I want to come to work at the General Assembly with faith and hope of success, hope of good cooperation with all responsible people. Most categories were talking about the change in election policy and the need for trust in the work of society's key institutions and companies. The lack of trust and failure of the economic collapse have not come to an end. We are still reviewing decisions, actions, and events of inactivity that had a major impact on the lives of individuals in this country. Many companies and households' debt positions are self-inflicted. Suddenly, people stopped being creditors and customers at a bank and became creditors. Some were corrected without great effort, while others could not and could not afford to defend themselves and lose much. Some of it will never be improved. On the other hand, there are many things that can be improved, and political practices are one of them. Now, you see, it is an opportunity to let our actions speak and stand at the big words. We must be desolated to overcome the methodology of old politics, where the interests of political parties, individual politicians, and their best friends were put ahead of the overall interests. Here at the council, we must work together as a team on the affairs and interests of the public, not immediately, in the trenches that revolve around the fists of fists, pennies, and beating political cones. Our clients are not interested in us standing in this room, and they beg us to have won a power - controlled fight. They want us to do the right thing and do it well. Now is the opportunity to create the model country that has been discussed by some political leaders. It is now possible for members of all classes to show the solidarity that the nation calls for. Now is the time for all groups to work in the spirit of reform and reconciliation. A respectable president. An independent party government, restoration, and a bright future will begin with a worthy objective of building infrastructure and community infrastructure. I have the hope that we will be at peace with making clear policy decisions on important issues, such as the following: Health care, education, travel, environment, and alienities will help us to reverse the trend that this situation is an eternal solution to problems after its arrival. We're supposed to be first and be ready when the problem comes up. It would be best if we could prevent him. We do so only by looking into our situation and peering into the future, by working for clear and relevant policies. We are to analyze, define services, set goals, and make ways together. To me, members and political parties are not either part of or against. We're not us and you. We're all on the same team. We were given an important assignment in which the nation's interests depend, not the interests of political parties or our members. Many of the projects that can be found in the policy declaration and in the terms of the Council that will be submitted to the spring council are issues that all classes clearly stressed in the controversies of the election. Today, it will test whether groups that are not involved in the present government were serious with the declarations that political practices needed overemphasis. It's all the senators in the future have in mind but to have a good cooperation with all the members of the council from now on. This and only in this way can we find the best possible solution. My sincere hope is that other members of the council feel the same way. I intend to work honestly in this cooperation with three groups that have formed more parts and cooperated with those that are not part of a government. I want the nation to be able to trust me. I want the nation to be able to trust the rulers and key institutions of society. I want men to come out here clean and connect themselves to the interests of the people who chose our power. That, and only that way, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-17.u22	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Tonight we have listened to the debate of Prime Minister and the discussions and attitudes of political parties at the General Assembly, but a new government has good wishes for success in all its projects. The plans of the prime minister were poetic in chapters and filled with beautiful promises, as we have seen. Many thought that the recent government declaration was poor, small as a hand, and most of it dissolves in advance and subsystems. After tonight's discussion, it's still a blind spot. What are the priorities of the throw? What is the vision of a new government of improved and better society for all? It was observed in the highest range. The prime minister's value or control of the government is of two kinds and a sense of balance and vision, a strong amenak term that arouses a positive impression. But what do they really represent in the mind of those who now wield the master's authority? Is it balanced to protect the situation and divide the common goods of the country or this constant, close relationship between the government and the nation's most precious resource in terms of the legal use fee? Is it true that the stability and balance that have existed over the past few years on child - responsibilities, the elderly, and those who have reduced their energy? Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Everyone agrees that economic balance, stability, and responsible financial management are the cornerstone of the welfare. On the other hand, much of the population, economic and social imbalance, has become an ignominious imbalance. It is not acceptable in the welfare of society that thousands of people hardly have a knife or a spoon. We also know that the country has a small group of people who have too much money to pay, and unfortunately, there is no evidence that a new government is eager to reduce inequities and work to increase justice and reasonableness in this respect. Is this the balance recommended by the prime minister? If something is wrong, the injustice has been balanced and must be removed. Prescientity is another theme of a new government. It will hardly be said of the Independence Party, which has been the dominant political force for decades in Iceland that vision was in the foreground or responsibility and concern for nature and the environment of this country. The restoration of an independent party now follows the brief criticism of its old master and the danger of looking to the future, bright future after incidents, in exactly the same way as before, with the interests of selected ones in mind. A new generation, however, calls for other ways of thinking, and for respect for the common possessions of the people of the land, nature, and resources. In the United States, Madam President, we encourage the public not to forget the votes of the government. Hang them on the kitchen refrigerator, stick them on the bedside in the bedroom, do not let them go out of their mind. The good language of fellow men has been a source of instant relief to them but has left no end to them. We have the examples vivid. Our valuable value on the increased equation, the fair exchange of quality, cooperation, and justice for the public, however, is timeless, and to them we will continue to fight, few for our time at council. Good citizens of the country. During the recent year, there was a loud discussion of health issues that involved a considerable deal of land hospitals and the problems facing the operation, both in business and in a state of situation. The hospital, as everyone knows, plays a key role in national health care and cannot help but create a basis for normal functioning. Other aspects of health care are a source of anxiety and urgent concern. Health care, basic services are in the parasympathetic area of Reykjavík, as well as in the country. At most clinics there, medical services are provided in part or completely in short - term work. This has been the case since the collapse of the economy when institutions were up to a quarter of a budget cut and still do not carry their bars. This is one example of many in which the land is closed down and where there is no equal. The promise of a new government is working on health - care policies, and the requirement is, of course, that the whole country will be considered to be restored. Madam President. My fellow Americans. A new government is already taking over well - watered, professionally flourishing, the recovery of good and outside circumstances positive. When such a situation occurs, we are to begin a real restoration of the welfare of society, where there is no exception and everyone is involved. If that is the case, surely thousands of normal people will rejoice together, wherever they may be placed in Iceland. Good citizens of the country. Have a good time.
