ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u1	Borist has a letter from the fourth. Smoke. N., Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, that she can't do Congress in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists Albert Guðmundsson. Albert's letter has already been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign his name to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u2	Albert Guðmundsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u3	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. Smoke. n., Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter, that she can't be a senator for a while. Today, therefore, an assistant of Pirata's district list, Katla Þórhildardóttir Þrjörðurdóttir. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u4	Katla Hólm Þórhildardóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u5	To answer, financial and economic ministers, Prime Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u6	Madam President. Yesterday's frequency shows that local surveillance agencies did not fully investigate the way Hauck & Aufäuer the bank sold a share in the Bank. The report states that the S-group put great emphasis on having a foreign fund to improve its proposal, but what raises questions is what else has gone on at the same time. Some people thus say that there is no reason to engage in any further investigation of the privateisation of banks unless there is some new evidence, as in the case of Hauck & Aufäuser, who just wants to sit and wait for some cloth to rise. What we see in this case, however, is that surveillance agencies received data and indications that called to study, the accounts of these organizations simply did not match, but an insufficient study was not undertaken. Those who speak in such a way as not to have further research unless new evidence is made must wonder if there is no strong reason to engage in a thorough investigation of the entire personal development of the banks in 2003. The Icelandic community has become more vulnerable to suspicion and suspicion in recent years when it comes to the commercial situation and this report shows that the only way to eliminate the suspicion is to put a good practice into practice, to counter research on the trade process as agreed by the General of the Council in 2012, to learn from the process before another privatizing of the government's share in the banks. V.E.G. Minister has announced the sale of state funds in the banks, but he has also said, Mrs. President, that it is important to take the time needed. [[The president calls.]] Is it not reason to complete a study of this process so that we can get all the things out of this subject that have been like a bruise on the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u7	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. My answer is simple: Yes, there is reason to complete a study of this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u8	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for a clear answer. I trust that he, as both secretary of finance and head of action, will promote the completion of a study of the bank's entire sales process. This is a very important statement of the highest importance. Minister has given it to the council hall today. I would like to use this opportunity in the second question and ask: Does he also feel that he would like to wait to charge further sales of the State in the banks until such a investigation has been completed? Does he not also think that there is reason to fully investigate the process that is currently being carried out as to sales of Arion banks, although the State is not a seller in the holding of property, so that we can look forward to building a healthy financial system, looking ahead, and making sure that a general transparent state around these important institutions is around us all? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u9	Madam President. Again, my answer is simple: I think it is very important that there is a transparent process here at the sale of banks, a process that will be started over all criticisms, a process that means that everyone sits at the same table, a process that doesn't hide who are the real buyers. I've written a letter to the F.A. asking about who's at the end of the stock market in the banks, and I'll expect an answer soon. I can answer the senator wholeheartedly: This process must be open, it must be transparent, we must eliminate the suspicion around the banks. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u10	Madam President. For this open, transparent process of selling banks, it's great to hear the highest. The minister of finance speaks so strongly of it. But then we get a little deeper into what it means that the process is open and beneficial, above all doubt and criticism and suspicion, that's a great word to be heard by a minister, but let's go deeper into what it means. He has called for information about who are real buyers in terms of Arion's bank. For this to be above all doubt and suspicion, is it not something that the people of the land might have access to? As the law is now, it's only the SEC that gets it, but in confidence. The committees themselves can call for them, the Economic and Business Committee will probably do so. Smári Mccarthy's been calling for it. I don't see that the people of the country do anything but question the country's surveillance agencies after all we know about the history of previous personal reforms because they were deceived and things were hidden and they didn't seem to have enough sources, etc. Isn't this something you could do? That the people of the country are only allowed to see who are the real owners of financial businesses in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u11	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I agree with him that it's not a matter of the FEC business who's the owners. Everyone in the country should know. I believe that in general the people should know who owns a business, that they do not hide behind some strange owners' names, and that we know who the final owners are. This is absolutely necessary for us to have confidence in society's institutions, and this is especially important when banks are involved, especially when this is one of the largest banks in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u12	You can't say what you're talking about, it's great. It's just that it's real. I'm just so surprised. You're so accustomed to coming up here and having to work on it and say the questions so that it's clear and that's how it is. It's just that everything's answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u13	Madam President. Thanks. A senator is received.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u14	A respectable president. During the days, 30% of Arion's bank items were sold to several foreign buyers, including hedge funds. For that reason, the highest would be said. Prime Minister in a conversation with the Morning newspaper, with permission of the president: There's really good news if you want to bring strong foreign people who are willing to become long-term investors in Icelandic financial companies. Of course, you will find out what these specific people are thinking and how long they've thought of investing here... V.E.G. The minister of finance also rejoiced. There's a lot to consider. It is uncertain who is the final owners of this 30% share, as we have discussed. You can't know what they're thinking, and we don't know if this is part of long-term investments or simply hedge funds for a short period of time. The World Bank Fund has adopted our criticism and considered it very important and, in fact, warned that the hedge fund is good investors and it is wise to go slow and choose diligently those who buy and to guarantee who it is. Yesterday a report on deception was presented when a powerful foreign investor, but not, was placed in the Old Bank. The German bank's involvement was a temporary cover-up. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether I agree that it's more convenient to know who is the ultimate owners of the systematic significant financial institutions and whether the Goldman Sachs bank is blended into this for the same purpose as at the time when Hauck & Aufäuser was put here. Where the highest. The secretary of finance has made some clear statements, but he also administers the SEC which seems to have failed in its time of observation, I would also like to ask the highest level. Minister if he has already checked whether existing laws and regulations provide sufficient resources for the SEC to determine whether any real estate can be revealed in systematicly important banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u15	Madam President. I think I've answered some of the previous questions. A senator in a somewhat conclusive way. I think it's very important, I think it's so important that I've written a letter with questions there. Also, I have informed the surveillance that I will publish their answers to my questions when they are received. The Secretary of Economic Affairs does not have an invitation to the UN and, fortunately, the SEC is an independent government. Therefore, I cannot, nor do I want to force the SEC to do some special thing, but we have to expect the government, whatever they are and whatever time they are working, to do everything in their power to inform about these matters, matters that are of all importance to the nation, matters that play a key role in the economy of the country. It is hoped that you will be asked, after the organizations failed so terribly in their time. You can't do that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u16	A respectable president. Perhaps I'm just going to comment on the second part of the question. It's clear that we work at the council, including... In the management and monitoring committee, we need to ask the question, Is the law clear? My question was the highest. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Ministry would have already made sure that the changes that have made in order in some way guarantee that the SEC is an independent agency, but by the legal environment from now on and by the initiative of the Ministry of finance, which is in charge of the Agency, has the possibility of calling out this information. One thing is to have the view that we want it and another to show by our actions that it is possible. So I think this is a very important point that needs to be made. Today, the government has also had a plot of ownership to sell things in government banks. In view of the declarations of the International Cash Fund and, in view of the fact that we may not be there, whether we have the tools and tools, the financial and financial plans are in an upset or the highest. A minister prepared to state that we must go very slowly through the door of selling part of the state of state and not sell it to other agents other than those we know who are? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u17	President. Thank you for the leader again for his repercussion. Yes, it is perfectly clear, and my very clear opinion is that we should be careful. We're here to prepare the operation together, all of us, to sell the banks. I'm not interested in selling over to some secret people the government's share in banks. Today, the State is not involved in this process, as is the case. A senator noted, yet it matters to us who are behind them. I know that the F.O.B. has clearances when this thing goes over a certain percentage. I know it also has authority when the thing is dominant and I'm expecting that of the things that are discussed here, at least the bigger, the same way as the dominant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u18	Madam President. Benedikt Gíslason, former assistant to the Supreme Court. The prime minister of Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, was already the chief. Ministers were financial and economic ministers, one of the top advisers of the last administrations for the release of currency burglars. One of the factors involved in Benedikt's work was to establish a stable standard, a policy on how banks' demands of hundreds of billions of dollars can be used from Iceland. Benedikt is now working for the demands of the Council of Copenhagen, which is the largest bank owner for Arion and therefore now operates for the relevant conditions. The format to use. In a conversation with News Times during the days, Benedikt Gíslason said that he had received a job offer from the Commissary Council of Copenhagen ehf. last fall, and he accepted it and said that the confidentiality of his contract with the Communicator in written answer, but Benedikt gave up counseling for the Ministry of Financial and Economic Affairs last June. Benedikt is under oath to the Council of Buy. But when he was committed to the knowledge he acquired as his counselor and assistant to the secretary of finance and economics? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister on this and at each recruitment relationship with Benedikt was working as a consultant for the government on the emissions-related projects. Was he not forbidden in the employment contract to work for the data panels except after some time, and how long was that period? Benedikt himself has refused to say whether he is incapable of working for the demanding workers. What's the highest opinion. prime minister of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u19	A respectable president. It is asked whether a person has not had confidentiality that has been assigned or has carried out specific tasks for the government. In this particular case, those who came to work made special confidential agreements. I have not considered these contracts recently, but I do not have any memory to suggest that there are some restrictions on what can happen after the contract is concluded. What matters most to me, however, is that the work was finished, all the terms had been passed, the work had been successful, the task was completed by the worn - out process, and the business at the Council was that the company published a special bond that depended on the terms. Their terms have long been settled, and there is no confidential issue about their contents. In itself, it is very difficult for me to see how there is a risk of conflict of interest because of this position in view of the completion of the project and the conclusion of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u20	Madam President. In order to take away their money from Iceland, traders first have to make a stable contribution of over 80 billion dollars. in the state funds and they collect money through the sale of property, e.g. the sale of Arion's bank. There are great interests at stake for the common people and for the state's funds. According to News, Benedikt does not want to answer the question in the way he was offered a consulting job at the Council, but it is only natural to raise questions as to whether this happened and through his work for the Ministry of Economics and Economics. He had Benedikt at the time he worked for the highest. The minister and the Ministry have access to confidential information, e.g. In terms of Iceland's contract objective, implementation and timing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u21	Madam President. Of course, those who were working in the stability conditions back then had much confidential information. There's no question about that, but on that contract, confidentiality is valid. I don't know what the Senator's up to. I'm not going to be put in the position of becoming a special spokesman for the Council of Buy, for there is no reason to do so. On the other hand, the question remains. A senator's got something to smoke. What are some of these? A senator's particular concern? Let us discuss them in particular rather than talk about this with them in vague terms, as the above is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u22	A respectable president. As much as I'd like to ask about the national report, there's something else here. In an interview with RUSA yesterday, the prime minister said that it was not urgent to consider the sale of banks 15 years ago. Let's see. The government's financing plans for the sale of banks are reimbursed. I believe that there is an enormous urgency to believe that there is a conclusion on the whole process of privateization of banks, second if it comes to that, too. So I'm now asking a minister for a fairly black conclusion on the private development of the future part of the 50-50 change: Will a minister stand in the way of an investigation of half the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u23	Madam President. I'm going to stay out of this upset here that's judging itself. But what I've said in my discussion about the need for further privatization of banks is that we already have an enormous amount of research reports. Let me mention in the context that in its time, a special report on the appropriate son of Ásgrímsson Ásgrim was published to deal with the sale of the State in the Bank of Cities. Then we saw a summary of the State Accounting Commission that involved this German bank, Hauck & Aufäuer, to the Board of Shepherds for a meeting with Vilhjálmur Bjarnason at the time when the report was submitted to the council. Then we had a memo and a summary from June 7, 2005, of which 34 questions were raised at a meeting of the budget committee. It covered a number of aspects of the privatization process, and in December 2003 a report on the privatization of key government companies was published in 1998 -2003 by Kingdom Accounting, specifically reviewing whether the objective of the State by privateisation had been achieved. It was also considered whether those terms had been followed, the conditions set up at the time of the Privacy Committee. All of this was discussed in that report. In addition, in October 2002 a paper on tenders was submitted to the State's quarter share in the Lands Bank, a special report on this subject. Then let me remind you that, on last year, June 2, last year, the General agrees that, together with the investigation now completed, the Commission and the Commission shall review all the data I have listed here, and they will consider whether there is any basis for further investigation of the privateisation of the employment bank, the Land Bank and the Bank. I supported these suggestions, so to speak. A senator should not have to be misled as to my position in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u24	A respectable president. I'm asking because it hasn't started yet. In terms of state reexamination of Hauck &Aufäuser, the report released yesterday has shown that there is some conflict. Therefore, it is worth asking: Is it not necessary, then, to have as a thorough investigation as the board of inquiry that went yesterday to convince us that everything is the way it should be? The Prime Minister says he took his stand on this matter, but I don't see anyone left yet a year later. I think there's a clear reason to ask. And as loud as the highest. The minister of finance then was requesting that the prime minister be as firm as that. There is now an approved 2012 resolution waiting to be carried out. It is acknowledged that according to the review of various parties, the previous sale of the banks appears to have been in the hands of Davíð the Oddsson of Oddson and Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim. Now it's not hard to say that it's that traditional splitter, and I'm not retracting any of those words, but isn't it very urgent and obvious to hurry right now to enforce the interpretation that is already approved by 2012? Won't they just have a committee set up at the end of next week?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u25	Madam President. Hv. A senator would mistaken if he felt that the matter is under custody of the person here. The case is simply, after a special agreement in the last summer, on the board of administration and monitoring committee. It was agreed at the General Assembly that, together with the study that the newly completed committee should go down to the need for this. What I have done in discussions about these matters is calling attention to everything that has already happened. A senator cannot point to one point in support of all the research carried out by the National Reconnaissance. And that's what matters. If a study is to be initiated, it should be well defined as what should be investigated. In recent years, we've had an investigation into an apartment loan fund. We also had our savings investigated. We were covering these two studies with 900 million. K. My introduction to the discussion is this: The committee of the council, which is involved in the matter, must simply understand the issues that are going on after all the previous research. [[The president calls.]] If there's a standing point, I'll, of course, as I've done so far, support that there's going to be a review of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u26	V.E.G. President. In view of the preceding discussion in the queries for Ministers, I think it's only time to start by reviewing the synonym for an investigation of foreign participation in purchases at 45.8% of holdings in Iceland's Farm Bank. This investigation was entrusted to one person and to expect him to gather and create published information on the facts of the situation and the source of the participation of the German bank in the purchases, taking into account the information that buyers gave to the Icelandic government as the seller and its institutions. Then, based on the results of the study and following the review of an administration and monitoring committee, the Commission was expected to evaluate whether it would suggest further investigation of the privateisation of the employment deposit banks, Lands Bank and Iceland's Farm Bank, as agreed on on November 7, 2012. It's in the council arrangement, and that work will be done. I have personally expressed that view before, and that is after conversation with many experts, and including. to the agency of the General Assembly, which included the committee, that there is no basis for further investigation on the personalisation of these banks, and it is well documented to have done research before, unless there are new information around the investigation that is now completed or other evidence, that there are isolated cases or details, rather than the fact that we are going to investigate in a large study and at great cost without knowing where we are going and where it will lead us. I'd like to start by saying this out first. In a discussion of these matters, when research committees and research results are presented, I would like to use this opportunity to review the role of the Commission and Control Committee, generally speaking about its role. According to 1st mg. 13th par. The Parliament's members shall review the Commission and the Commission's reports, give their opinion of them to the council, and offer proposals for further action of the Council. This, of course, will be done by the committee. In addition, we comment on the protocols on study committees, No. 68/2011, but this role is further described: It is important to keep in mind that the results of the investigator are not binding and therefore must be processed effectively. In other words, an authority needs to assess the results of the committee in an independent way - i.e. For example, the Commission's work changes and criticism of government practices, as well as the case of Ministers, will decide the rest of the cases. This is the part. This report has now been covered by the committee. Committeemen are studying its contents. This morning's committee was meeting to discuss the rest of the discussion, how best to take care of a case, and to review this defined role. Of course, it is vital that we discern our role and ministry. In this case, the NTSB or the Committee to draw out information, draw information, and draw out information. The Commission draws its conclusions, but we, to the Commission and the review board, must also draw our own conclusions from the incident and the data involved. The most important thing to us is to review the government's means of selling the bank at the time. What conditions were set by the government? How was the synonym? What was expected? Did it matter? What laws and regulations were valid back then? Did the institutions of the State follow all of that? What was their role in this entire process? How much commission did the personal employment committee have? What conditions did it put, etc.? On this basis, we need to reach some conclusion. We need to work professionally and with regard to our role. I'm not gonna have an opinion on the contents right now. I'm not going to consider whether a board of governance was deceived. I'm not going to decide now whether the government has done a bad job. I want to review these facts, facts, and evidence carefully, and I want to take a stand on the matter when it has been done. I challenge everyone to review this report carefully, as well as to be patient, and to allow a board of directors to carry out their role in reviewing the data and providing their opinion and suggestions for the council on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u27	Madam President. Who's hiding behind this guy's mask? The report that we are discussing here certainly raises questions about many aspects of the private development in 2003. There is no doubt that many were deceived and even deceived. Many who had no reason but to believe that they were told the truth about buyers. However, questions arise regarding the role of the monitoring agencies and their approach to the normal monitoring of Iceland's future as important as the privatization of two bank banks at the same time. The end of this bank five years later caused the Icelandic nation to experience more man - made disasters than we can see in the republican era. Despite a suspicion, it was more and more than once placed off course. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who was then adopted as a matter of taste, did not reveal the matter to state opinion or the Fed. The evidence cannot be seen that these institutions made a serious attempt to determine the absence of deception. For members of Congress and nation, it is important to know the answer to the question: Can we trust the inspectors? Who's monitoring the surveillance? From the letter of the World Bank Fund published at the end of the fund's visit to Iceland this week, I'd like to read, with the permission of a president: It is important to set a course that ensures that banks will be in the hands of trusted owners. Patience is needed in the privatization of the two banks, with emphasis on finding conservative buyers who have shown long - term housing in Iceland. In any case, the quality of new owners should take priority over business speed or price. Recent purchase of one of the private banks amongst the biggest challenges for the FME. It is necessary to perform a thorough, accurate and reasonable fat-and-proper-proper estimates from a financial and neutral perspective. Let us review the story of another bank, which was privatized at the same time as the Buddhist bank. On February 3, 2003, the FCE decided to make a suitable decision for Samson's holding society to become a part of the Bank of Lands. It even said, by permission of the president: ▪ In the letters of the SEC to Samson and its officials, the importance of ensuring that, if possible, their holdings at the bank do not produce positions or benefits other than that of a general shareholder of the bank's healthy, lucrative business. Thus, the union, its owners, associated or elected bank agencies, will not enjoy a position in the bank, such as business partners, the participation in business decisions that concern themselves, linked to communities or competitors, or information on the trade of existing or future competitive companies. Was this law respected in the bank of the Lands Bank in its own time? Or was the decision made by the FDA now empty? I keep reading: The following items proposed by the FEC are that Bank Council rules will be changed in order to ensure that information transfers to bank councils are only done by banks, that bankers will be forbidden to inform bankers about the bank's clients, that bank agencies will become a source of support and that information at the bank council's check-ins will become broader and will be disinformed to individuals and companies in close contact with bank councils. I ask: Were these laws respected while the bank manager had an office between the two bank managers? In fact, the F.P.D. felt that Bjordur's father and father were not related to each other on the contrary to what an Icelandic book says. It was far in order to avoid meeting the conditions of the above - mentioned decisions. But these are changing times, or what? We again face the fact that foreign people want to buy an Icelandic bank. Who is behind this fund? The path leads to a deportation island that leads to a collapse of most of us were strange or unknown. Are these funds real owners? They say they are, but they have to lay the cards on the table. A respectable president. Last Friday, I wrote an 11 - question letter to the SEC that would possess the funds or companies that had bought items at Adoni banks. In the light of history, the possession must be proved with all means. I expect an FME to answer as soon as possible. If there is no clear evidence as to who is real owners, trust in the banking system will not be restored. For us as a community, it is also fundamental that we can trust the inspectors, the FDA, and the State Accounting. Madam President. We need to know who's behind the mask.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u28	A respectable president. We'll discuss a report on the Aufäuser Bank's involvement in the privatization of the Buddhist Bank hf. In 2003. A part of the matter is here explained here, yet there is still a review of the overall privatization. V.E.G. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson tells us yesterday that it is not necessary to do so. The director of the administration and monitoring committees told earlier, and indeed in the media also, that there has to be something new going on in order to arouse such an investigation. Something new has come out. Now new information is available, they're here, they're here. It's this report here. It's the record of deception. It is sufficient to initiate an investigation in accordance with the approval of the Generals since November 2012, of a study of the privatization of industry, Bank of Iceland, and Iceland's Farming Bank. Thus, after today's inquiry period, the biggest news in our discussion is that there is a greater proportion at the Council by accepting an investigation of the personal development of the banks in general, in line with the application of Congress. So the next step is to get to work in accordance with the will, although the chairman of the Independence Party and the director of the Commission and the surveillance committee spoke against it. It's supposed to be a celebration. A respectable president. The bad luck that began with the privatization of the banking system, the half-way change in government categories, and the conclusion that the public lost, the society lost, and ended up with a historical economic collapse, and Iceland's crisis takes on ever clearer form. The world's interests were thrown aside, and there seems to be total apathy. Political addictions that everything was to be private, espionage, and gang politics led to what is being discussed here. Deception was certainly used in an organized way, and money was stolen from the common people. We're in a hurry. Many things have happened since then, but not all questions are answered. Who was to protect the public interest in this process? Was it F.O.W.s? Was it a state reexamination? Was it the Ministers of the Government? The members of the community, the rest? At least it's gone. for the failure of this process, to the Commission on private development, which was a powerful agent for the government at that time, failed the mission. Just a year ago, Panama's documents were highly voiced, connected with societies, secretism and money lust had taken over a number of people and businesses. Even government leaders turned out to have kept funds in the tax industry, and the conclusion was that it was shaken, and we walked to the election sooner. Now we have a new government in which the prime minister is one of the leaders of the Panama Documents. Last night, this prime minister said that there was no more need to investigate, no more, not the total privatization. A familiar theme, secret thinking, watch out for what it does. Who's gonna watch the public now? It must be an unscrupulous demand from the Generals that this total reexamination for the community as a whole is going to be under attack. The hide-and-seek has to stop. A respectable president. This study shows that it was clear that the purpose of making secret agreements was to conceal the holding of the depositors of the Bank in its time and that deliberate deception was applied to that purpose. Significant financial resources were thus drawn from the public and were highly suspicious of the complex described in the report. The report raises questions about who knew what and will be considered to be the highest probability that others in the S group did not know any kind of person and therefore some authorities. What's currently in place and is in charge of an administration and monitoring committee is that we need all tools and tools to explain who is involved at any given time. It must be possible to knock the banks on the bank to indicate how the individual causes of ownership and the like. The report has therefore clearly described what happened, creating a clear basis for our work, our work at the General, the management committee, our decision to make the next steps, the sewing of the case, and making suggestions for the Council. Hv. paritaprevir Brigs Níelsson conducted a bill on research committees that says it is important to make sure that the reporting process, i.e. General, an independent assessment of the product of the NTSB is required at each time. So the next step is to learn the lessons, as well as ask political questions about the interests of the public, about who was guarding them, and more so who are now protecting the interests of the public. Is that a translucency now, a trust in business life today? Is it acceptable to share a secret, power, business, and political interaction? As a result, such a combination with the government of the country at any given time is likely to recur.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u29	Madam President. The following steps in this case were made in the resolution adopted last year, creating the research committee that was returning the report we were discussing. They are actually twofold, and there comes the role of the management and monitoring committee, i.e. On the one hand, whether to continue and go to the focal point of the study we've been talking about, a complete study of the privateisation of Iceland's Bank - now I can't remember all the banks, but I'm referring to these three business banks that were in their time and were sold in 2002. What would such an overall review look like? This is shown in the synonym, which was approved in 2012. Now it's at the top. Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson that we don't need it, so much data is available. The management board should only pass through those files. It'll take a lot of time. We could call specialists, etc. to help us with that type of work and will have to do so. But what if we set up a research committee to investigate the personalization of these three banks? If all of this is possible anyway, there is a small job for that research committee. Then this is just a ◯pyr/paste in all the reports and studies being conducted. It's not much of a cost, but it's the highest. The cost has been paid by the prime minister in this case - so much has been spent in these researchs. There's a price for democracy, a check. But it takes much more than that, without the supervision and democracy. Much, much, much more. I find the monarchy that we follow the council resolution from 2012 to this complete review, especially because of the purpose of it. Who was he? Its purpose is stated in the report: To provide a comprehensive overview of the policies, decision-making and implementation that were responsible for the sale of stocks in the three banks... So what? This is important. ... so that we can learn from the process of developing policy for the best possible sale of the future financial resources of the state. It's an all-basic, it's- - It's- - It's- - It's- Now I need a translation to live with the council. [[Up front.]] This is fundamental. Exactly. I don't know what men are after. V.E.G. The financial minister of Benedikt Jóhannesson was decisive in this. So all I can expect is that the Parliament's group agree in this matter and that they have discussed it among themselves, and then there is more to it at the council. Then there's another interesting thing we were talking about, i.e. If we can't get one poll, Gallup, that's about 150 far away. K., to get it on the table, which people don't approve of, too, getting this information. We can get together, those members of Congress who are interested in making this happen, and get a firm result. Does it not want to be examined as to how the privatization process was so that we do not make the same mistake in this process, so that we can learn from it and do it well, make it clear, keep it open without suspicion, possess criticism and gain good prices and good owners for this bank? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u30	A respectable president. It was very special and painful to see the results of the final study report of the Generalist Committee last night, which makes it clear to those who reported that one buyer at his time had deceived all, the government, the general public, the surveillance organisation, and even the partners of the trade as well. It's amazing to see how far men went to see it. The question has been asked, Was there any special purpose in concealing this possession, whether it had an impact, but in view of the length of men'going in order to make sure that it was something that must have been for someone else? Once again, we see that taking advantage of societies only to conceal real ownership is we in our world dealing with people that are hard to deal with. We see in this report that the foreign party, the French bank Socié Générale, originally believed to be the most likely to arrive at the purchases, appeared to have been the main men in the construction of this complex. This was shown in the answers to my questions to the NTSB yesterday. It turns out that another bank, a German bank, feels that it is proper to get 1 million euros for participating in such a complex. In other words, this shows us a world that we do not know or that we do not know, a world that we would not want to exist, or at least there is something different. But perhaps the most important thing is that we have to admit that this was the case and that we are probably still in the international financial system. Then there comes the big question, how we, as citizens of public interest, can inform and prevent such a situation from happening again, on the other hand, by the law and by the rules, to ensure that it has a means to follow it, as well as what also comes out in the report and in response of the committee to my question about the professionals, those who are often spoken of as trust in us politicians. We should not listen to our own sense of humor. Rather, we should call independent experts who tell us how things are, in this case a famous international bank, an HSBC. There is nothing in the evidence that the NTSB could acquire that would indicate that these people had been aware of this, at least they didn't give any evidence to the Icelandic government and patrol officials that there was a pot broken. And then the question is, Where are we? How should we prevent such things? Clearly, we need to think about and use our own understanding that such things can happen. Now the World Bank Fund has arrived for its regular visit and published a report, including criticism. our candidates, in the process of selling shares in Arion Bank. Certainly, it is not the State that is selling. Rather, it is the bank's owners in some way selling themselves. Once again, a recognized international bank, Goldman Sachs, which is said to be part of the purchases, is expected to add to the credibility of the purchases, but in the questions we have asked here, including: The Economic and Business Commission has not been able to answer whether he is a real owner or if he is in this situation as much as he was here 15 years ago. The World Bank has also pointed out what we have criticized, that it is very unfortunate and undesirable that hedge funds, which are developing investors who are not thinking of long-term activity, are real owners of the financial system, to important system institutions in Iceland. I think all of this will lead to our need for a administrative and administrative committee, a financial and business committee, and after incidents in other council committees and here at the Senate Hall to make sure that the legal and order base that was here 15 years ago is sufficiently altered to address this matter into the future so that we can really make sure that this does not happen. It is obvious that in these financial systems, people are confined to nothing, since in this matter, there are two international banks that are likely to want to appear as trustworthy members of their territory. It is also a question in which the current government has proposed a policy of ownership where the key point is that it should sell state property in the other banks, i.e. The bank and the Bank of Iceland, and its link to finance policy for the next five years and a financial plan. Now it's got the highest. Secretary of finance and prime minister say that careful attention is needed and that there is a need to be exercised. It has been difficult to get a real foreign bank in a Icelandic financial system. If we need to be very patient, we may need to ask ourselves, " How will we see this financial system? ' Don't we need to do this before we go to the sale to create the system here, what the system is supposed to be, separate business and investment parts if it's the most reasonable result of opinion and other factors, how big the banking system should be? Who's suitable as owners of a banking system in Iceland? The most important thing is to inform what has happened but to learn from it so that in some way we can make sure that it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u31	A respectable president. Yesterday and today, and in this discussion about the privatization of the Save Bank, we are witnessing a tremendous deception and fraud in the whole of Icelandic society. I have to say for myself, for my part, that I've been doing lawsuits with Icelandic bank for a few years, and so far I've been right in all things, I'm not surprised. I always wondered what the motivation is for deception and cheating, which drives people, this sincere resolve to deceive. After reading me quickly through a report of the research committee on the privatization of the Bank, I wondered if we are being saved. To make a long story short, and to illustrate my understanding, this reading reveals the miserable situation that the banks had entrusted with selling changed plays after they set off. They accepted, of course, halfhearted foreign counselors. They did not go after further information. After giving an additional deadline, they are not responsible for anything at the end of the day. I'd like to make this method of doing a lot of publicity here, the tactics used by Icelandic officials on a private employment committee and by Icelandic politicians, we've been surprised again and again, again and again, by our failure. In fact, I do not know whether it is incompetent or corrupt. In this case it seems that there is no evidence that one of the owners knew that a German bank was available to rent the purchase of a large share in the Bank. But that is because no one thought of asking the right questions or because they decided to turn the blind eye to what happened there. We know from law that the methodology focuses on what can be proved, not necessarily the truth itself, because it is not always available. What if you don't want to tell the truth right and deal with memory loss, like what happened in the hearing of this NTSB? What if there is no information on the truth? If the evidence is not there, it is not about the truth but about what can be proved. Whether it's what we're facing here, a respectable president, I don't know. The report says that a personal employment committee has directly changed the rules afterwards. It seems that the S group that bought the Buddhist bank got to write the rules of the game themselves afterwards. That's how I see it. He did this by introducing the idea of getting a French bank to be a tight investment with him through the Icelandic society of Egla. It seems, in fact, that the arrival of this French bank was no more than a monopoly of one or two of his employees, at least One of them left the bank in the middle of a game, formed a consulting firm, and began to look for other investors in order to enter the Icelandic community. A personalisation committee or Icelandic government had not written in the food process that the foreign trade was a special factor for the people. Then, somewhere at a meeting, the arrival of the French bank is presented, followed by a conversion of a private industrialized committee that puts emphasis on the importance of the large investment of a foreign financial institution as one of the principal leaders. Who made that decision, and on what basis? I remember that at the time, there was quite a fuss over the fact that one representative of a private employment committee resigned from the commission. The committee's report was that he had never met anyone like him in his work. This particular committee did not trust to participate in these activities on the grounds proposed that it make a big difference for the Personalization Committee to work on clear rules and objectively and transparently. Today, 15 years later, we are still dealing with similar issues related to the practices of those we trust in for a large task. It's like when banks are on the other side of this community, they end up in a serious moral error. The pay case is an example of this type of work in which it is either the gross inadequacy of those who are to be watched for us or the serious corruption that has failed to prove. What are we going to do now, in 2017, that is, when we are preparing to sell a possible item at the Bank of America again, to sell to Iceland Bank, and to the share of the State of Arazon's bank? What you can read in this report must not be repeated. We must establish clear rules of rules, create beneficial processes, and follow them. Otherwise, we will be here after 15 years to discuss the exact same situation. It took five years for men to bring us back with the fifth largest bankruptcy of world history and a slang of lawsuits followed by crimes committed within the bank and a great majority of the people had to take back their possessions. It can't happen again. Recently, reports were received of a sale at Arion Bank. It seems that the guidelines we have set do not seem to cover well enough about what happened there. Foreign hedge reserves that check under cover and no one really knows who has become involved in the bank. I'm asking myself, Mr. Honorable President, if there's anything we can do better in this regard. Can we write the rules so that in every case we can always demand to know who has all things in so - important institutions like banks? So let us not look under a blanket to see that fraud is just as much in the tactics of those we trust who were entrusted with important projects, making sure that the game was successful, and that it was not trustable. I want to make it clear, and I'll take it as an example that what happened in the payoff case as well. Is there really any difference between the pay matter and the Bank? It may not be possible to prove it. A respectable president. I'm finally asking if we can do better together? I will do my part to make sure that it does. I have no interest that the generals will be standing here in 15 years discussing exactly the same things we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u32	Mr. President. So at a press conference last morning, Gylfi Magnússon declared that the plot used to deceive the government was too adventurous to have proved trustworthy and would have been rejected by the publishers. It is true that the report reveals an unusually high moral blindness and greed that eventually led to terrible events, not to the world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world's world leaders. As a result of this for homes and the public, everyone is familiar but cannot be told enough. The crown collapsed, the inflation went out, the unemployment rate was two figures. Iceland entered the AGS intensive care unit, and until the last week, the country was in the seas. Many Icelanders are even more pained by the binding and well - being of the country. It is ironic, then, that the report is made almost at the same time, and the bank sale is back on its way. Bling. The ring is closed. Is there any other way we want to go in this merry-go-round? I don't think so. Little wonder, then, that when the prime minister celebrated the infant sale of Arón's bank for hedge funds recently, it is no wonder that it has surging about you. He is already taking countries for further investigation of the privateisation of banks at the turn of the century. It seems he intends to continue to ignore the interpretation of what was agreed upon by the Continents, the VG, and the movement in 2012. But it's good to know that. A financial minister has made it clear that such an investigation is to be done, but it shows that he or she is not a relative. This issue reminds us of what has been repeated over and over in the past few weeks in different ways. We must immediately attack and finish hard work on how financial systems we want to build up for the future and who can be considered to be the appropriate owners of a bank. This must be completed before the two banks of the Kingdom are sold. In fact, a supposed bank sale revealed an interesting conflict between government officials. While I'm at the highest. Secretary of finance insists that there is no room to sell the banks. The chairman of the budget board for a discussion of financialism that will be done during this terms of interest. This roundabout doesn't create trust on the way ahead, shows how inconsistencies in the government are, and how badly they really hold on to this matter. Mr. President. A thorough investigation of the privatization process and the links of businessmen to the administrations of that time, forward groups, and independence classes must be undertaken immediately. A persistent rumor is that the 50-50 - part divisions shared the banks between them, as though it were suspected that the arrival of Hauck & Aufäuser was a perfunctory, so to speak. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. The report presented yesterday raises questions about government apathy, institutions, and accountants in the privatization process and its application. They have to answer. There's another mention that it's strange to the highest. The prime minister believes that there is no further investigation. Mr. President. Today, a week is devoted to the financial lock of young people around the world. It lasts until April 2, when high school students help Benedikt Jóhannesson to phone markets in Copenhagen. No doubt this will be a beautiful, graphic piece of music this week. But I'm going to challenge the government to provide a huge budget for the ethics of all children in elementary and higher schools because I'm convinced that this is no less likely to benefit citizens and bankers of the future and contribute to a better moral and healthy financial environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u33	A respectable president. I'm going to have a president read from a book that I found, and I'm about to start reading it: I hear you bought a bank, Jón Hreggviðsson, told Arnas Arnæus. Is that true? Jón's son, Hreggviðsson name began in his seat, answered: " Have I bought a bank or have not bought a bank? ' Who has bought a bank, and who hasn't bought a bank? When do you buy banks and when you don't buy banks? Fucking hell I bought a bank. And yet? Jón Hreggviðsson was never sure if he had bought a bank or not bought a bank, and there is no evidence that Jón Hreggviðsson's son bought a bank. This is exactly the same situation that Hauck & Aufäuser is today. Hauck & Aufäuser did not buy a bank in 2003. Yesterday and today, questions have been asked. It is proper to keep asking questions, but it is also appropriate to look back and review some events. On January 16, 2003, this particular bank, Burger Bank, is sold in press reports. There it is recorded well and thoroughly that this German bank, Hauck & Aufäuer, is a buyer. There's a press release from both a so-called S group and the bank itself, in particular, in which a future curator in the Saven Bank, Peter Gatti, describes the sharp investment it is. It is also described in this news release where the bank works, including the U.S.A. has activity in Switzerland and Luxembourg. A personal employment committee had a short time to accept this bank, except for the night, for example. simple question: What was this bank doing in Switzerland and Luxembourg? According to the bank's reports for 2003, there were several thousand euros, so this press release was expounding the quality of this bank. I simply say that a private employment committee seems to have had the purpose of selling the Bank of foreign banks. It is in itself good to associate the Icelandic financial system of international banks if it is handled properly. But there were no questions asked. The next person to ask is the natural SEC. Many questions have been asked: Was the rule okay then or was it now? I say very simply: The clockwork was all right at the time. The person standing here worked at the National Bank Association in 1995 and 1996. During those years, a so-called CAD-thinking, capitalized Adequacy Direct, was introduced into an autocalculation of banks. The methodology I used, and I thought in 2005, 2006, answered questions we are suddenly finding answers to today, that this foreign bank did not buy. That's where the F.O.B.'s gonna fail. Then, in the middle of 2003, when Farmer Bank and Volunteer are joined, the accountants fail because there is a $100 million loan inside. Who is a debtor, and what is the underlying pledge? Egla is a debt of debt. The underlying pledge is a stock in Copenhagen. This $100 million loan, according to all the data, seems to me to have never been paid. It's 200 million dollars out of the banking system. There's some money, people can figure it out today. The gangs are so different, it may well be more or less today than yesterday. But look at other sizes. This press release is an unambiguous product misappointment. What is the focus of marketing abuse? It does not really focus on the community, it focuses on a whole society. Then we have an assessment of the investment of pension funds in four volumes, I have only one here. I seem to have lost pension funds at Buy and related companies of about 150 billion. If the government's got what it takes for the bank, then the community's lost in pensions. So the damage is in a community. Then, in 2006, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is involved. She's not interested in that. Her main interest is to humiliate the complaining citizen. There is no need to discuss the documents that come from Government Accounting, that may be a reason to talk to Government Accounting today or to a former government accountant on this matter. But what is to be done now? We are now facing a large report and various data. The committee on this subject was very specific, seeking answers to the question of how this was going to be fulfilled, and reaching certain data that resolved much. We've been looking at what's called on the Swedish gangmarking, which is what I've called on Icelandic corporate waste, i.e. when running a company, ironing. And what should they do? Who loved the bank's ironing? There are two options to welcome these over 100 billion people, and there is a company linked to the big business, Dekhill, who no one knows what the job force is. Likely, a tax manager and a tax investigator have the ability to obtain this information. It'll be interesting to get it out. Let's ask for an expiration date in this case. They say this case is ancient. When does the expiration date begin? I now believe human data, not when crime is committed, will begin to exist. It's a continuous crime. To me, this is a continuous crime from January 16, 2003 to March 29, 2017. Then it's finally enlightened. Then everybody knows. But if they want to investigate it, I think it's necessary to investigate the handling of a certain individual's debt to the bank, e.g. It's like the Lands Bank. It's where the chief owner is. There I have data in which accountants of false information work on the preparation of annual accounts, as well as the debt of the individual person mentioned in this report and using machines on the privatization of the Bank. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u34	Mr. President. Yesterday's published report includes a heavy sentence. It is clear in its main conclusions: The Icelandic government, and at the same time the common people, were deceived. The Allied Research Committee feels that Hauck & Aufäuser was not really invested in this business, as it was far away, in fact, never found itself. In connection with the purchase, there have been secretly renegotiated with three- sided cooperation by a representative of Hauck & Aufäuser, employees of the Council of Copenhagen Corp. and its daughter's company, Kalthing Bank of Luxembourg, and men who came to this work by reason of the hand and for the hand of Ólafsson the son of Ólafur, who was then president of the Samships, a ruler of Keri-hf. and the number-one president of the S-group. Along with these back contracts, the Offspring Workinger, which Olaffur Ólafur Ólafsson was real property, was taking advantage of all possible financial benefits from those items, but not from the painter, Hauck & Aufäuer. The NTSB feels that data are unmistakably clear that Ólafur Ólafsson was not only informed of these back deals and related measures but also that from the beginning he should benefit and actually benefit from them. The report reports that the combined profits made by Ólafur Ólafsson's national community, Working & Partners, were received at least 102 million dollars. The NTSB pointed out that the impact of the secret back contracts was that it was far from the fact that Hauck & Aufäuser was a real investor in the bank, directly or indirectly. On the contrary, it is said to the governments and the media. It is noted that there is no evidence on the evidence of any member of the European Commission on private development, staff, Ministers on the Minister's Committee for Personalization, or, indeed, any other government agent or employee, and institutions at any stage have had knowledge of how to obtain Hauck & Aufäuser that the sale of the State of the Bank was tested. Then there is no evidence that any of these parties had any idea that the financial benefits of the trade from the beginning were severed and, in effect, ran to an African society owned by Ólafur Ólafsson and later by Dekhill Advisors Ltd. At the end of their report, with the permission of the president, the board states that the Icelandic government has at its time been deceived into the entrance of Hauck & Aufäuuser by the private development of Iceland's Bank. completed on January 16, 2003, at the end of a contract. Similarly, this report, based on the Commission's assessment of the identity of that deception, sheds clear light on who appeared and held it ever since, either by hiding their knowledge of the real outcome of Hauck & Aufäuser, or by promoting a different form of awareness. Mr. President. It's all of it with the most amazing things. Here the veil is lifted by a web of deception, with a loud voice. Of course, early reactions are anger and shock. How could this possibly happen? What circumstances made this possible? Where was the surveillance? Who were the processes they had worked for? What part did politicians of those times play in creating a spirit of making this possible? It is inevitable to think that political powers here have drawn close, directly and indirectly to the commercial world. In 2008, according to a report by the World Commission on the leading and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks in 2008, there is clear evidence that political interference and the old unmistakably split between lakes were suspended. It was possibly. The reason that governments seem to have been indicted, and put little emphasis on getting to the bottom of things and almost trusting in the words of their buyers and counselors, the process and the conditions laid down for the purchases were very blundering and changed in the trade and assessment process? Mr. President. The General Commission and Management Board will carefully review the report. The lesson must be learned. This story cannot be repeated. The bond between political parties and financial powers is a dangerous combination. There must be any doubt about the need for objective work, transparent, open process, and strong monitoring agencies. That's why we'd like to go to the tower with full force. I never want to read a report of that kind again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u35	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this good report produced by a research committee on the participation of Hauck & Aufäuser in the privatization of the Save Bank. It is really remarkable to read this series of events all together, and what follows from the beginning when the S-and Ólafur Ólafsson flag, because they have a foreign investor in their sights and in the meeting of the executives for personalisation, they prefer to be given a plus for foreign money, which, as a result, gave this group the advantage in becoming the person who was allowed to buy the bank. Then it explains how this country investment always matters, seems to be, in all this process, and shows in the report that personal negotiations with the S group would be determined for a certain amount of time and that the Commission would be reluctant to extend private talks if they thought that Socié Générale or another international investor unlikely to have a substantial share in the holding partner of the proposal and then decide when it comes to Socié Gérale is not going to become an investor, but only to be a source of advice and to the S-US population of this country bank, so that a good witness is given to a good man, Mr. There was deception, and it is so clear here. It is important for us today that public evidence has repeatedly revealed doubts in the media and an official discussion of whether the arrival of Hauck & Aufäuer was in the proposed manner. Such discussions were held at the scene of the General Assembly in the inquirys of then members of the government resistance, Lúðvík Bergvinsson's son, and Algmund, son of Jónasson. This was shown in Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's comments by the current senator. Furthermore, the report shows that the comments were made by surveillance agencies as if nothing had happened. That is why it is so important that we take all these matters to the best of our minds, for it is not enough to indicate that many studies were carried out when it became evident that they were not sufficient, that the surveillance agencies did not complete their assigned task but received the comments that struck one. It turns out that all of this was a compromise, that deception was used in order for certain parties to profit from selling public owners. That's the facts of this case for us, Mr. President. This report requires that, on the other hand, the investigation of the entire privatization process will be completed, as we discussed in an unsubstantiated question period earlier, but it also requires that we consider very carefully how we are going to build up a financial system for the future, for the financial system is an integrated part of this community. We cannot offer, the Allied Council of Iceland, that society will continue to be exposed by suspicion and suspicion to the system that is actually supposed to be a service provider for the public and commercial life of the country. It's not working. This will be the case, however, if we do not finish these matters with a normal investigation, and as we review the situation now, how the laws and rules are, how they have been changed, and if they are adequate and if they are followed in sufficient ways. Or are we going to accept that the property of Icelandic financial companies is going to be in an area of the country? Is it anything you can offer to an Icelandic society when you read about its consequences a few years ago? This is the job, to fix up this past, to close these matters in some way, and to show that society can continue and divorce these matters, that we are not going to let this happen again. Therefore, it is not available to engage in further privatization of the banking system until this investigation is completed and we are convinced that law and order, monitoring agencies, and governments can be awakened when it comes to determining the future of the financial system. This is our assignment. For Icelandic society, that is not acceptable. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u36	Mr. President. We have this fine report here that sheds light on what I would call one of the greatest crimes of the century up to now. It shows a firm violation of government indifference, highlighting the complete moral breakdown of the personalization of the banks. And it stands as a powerful warning about what will happen if we continue on the same path again, as the present government has put the lines on the sale of banks. It is interesting to learn what the accounts of this have been like. Many interesting facts were made about the nature of the matter. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, who is very grateful to have called attention to the language that was fundamental to this report in his day, but I have a heartfelt disagreement with him when he says that the book was in order at the time. If it had been all right at the time, maybe it wouldn't have happened. In this context, this pattern is exactly this process, how this privatization took place, not an isolated thing that just took place here in Iceland. It has exactly the same personalization process with the exact same cover - ups and deceptions in many other lands. I could clean up a few examples, but I won't. Clearly, the work of order is not merely ruined in Iceland but, in most places, around the world. After this report, which I haven't finished reading yet but that far along, there is one important question: Who is or was owner of Dekhill Advisors Limited, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands, a notorious tax queen? We must realize that deception in the form of deception is only possible because there is no way to know what the truth is. There's only one way to make sure that these things can't happen again, that's to ensure that we're committed to companies. Having a business is not a personal matter for anyone. It is an agreement with society to obtain certain limitations on responsibility in exchange for upbuilding and honest participation in the economy. Investment in property is not just our government. Keeping in mind that possession is not abused against society is not particularly by society itself, including the U.S. Media and various sources. Pirantics have provided a bill that makes sure that all owners of the bank are supposed to put up with these transparency rules, it's not just those with more than 10%. You can't hide in the back of 9.99, as some people are now trying to do. All who have the chance to buy a bank should be equally applied. Pirantics have also provided a bill that ensures equal access to information from a company registry. All of them. No matter what the economy or the situation. That we can all access these data. These are absolutely fundamentals, but this isn't enough. The world's wealth has for decades built up a global network of corrupt corporations, which, under the cover of international cooperation, allowing society's enemies to hide property and run away - this has been created. More than 14% of the world's total wealth has flooded through the tax system, thus making money lovers like Ólafur Ólafsson, who do not hold back from creating conditions where whole countries can go. Iceland now has to start taking advantage of this opportunity to understand that it is not and will never be enough to watch the world burn and then just write a report about it. We are to use this lesson to engage in a sacred war against taxes and secret thinking in the financial system. We're supposed to start by opening up an enterprise file, completely open up, along with the shareholder file and annual accounts. We're supposed to put a heavy annual cover on the companies of the individual holding chains, not end up in anonymous individuals who really exist. And we're supposed to oblige the same day of the Parliament and registration of sales contracts in companies in accordance with an invalidation of the contract. This, together with our pressure on other countries, would be the right response to this report and would have been the right response to the 2010 General's original study report. What we're not supposed to do is to rush into unbridled, privateization on the banks again. We're not supposed to eat the devil of the Neo-freeism with antisocial policy in the state of money, and we're not here to let you sit as the prime minister of Iceland, who's exactly benefited from the premeditated secretism, and then we dare to say that there's nothing else to be investigated. The situation is simply so that we have again received a report showing that criminal events occurred at the beginning of this century. These criminal events will happen over and over again until we deal with this with a perfectly clear rule act that will not allow any confusion to go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u37	V.E.G. President. It has to be said, as it is, that when you thought nothing could surprise you when you were dealing with the moneymen's environment, you would do a huge fraud around the bank's sale. It is unuseable to know that there are men who will find special comfort in being wrong. Not until then, the human race has always had the right to try to save itself, but it is now possible to deceive governments, elected representatives, and the public, all in order to set fires for its own cakes. Of course, not all of them are beautiful and many words. V.E.G. President. I think we must, in spite of all our efforts to learn a lesson from what has happened and to do better in the future. The situation in the Icelandic bank market today is not as much as it was for privatization. The banking system is largely in the hands of the government. Current government groups believe that it is important to dislodge this holding, and it suggests that a policy of owner's appearance on the Ministry's website is to be aimed at selling all the funds in three financial companies and a great deal in the fourth, National Bank. The official report yesterday and the recent sale of a major item in the Adon bank is not without any suspicion that history might repeat itself. V.E.G. President. It is our job here at the Council to protect the interests of the common people. Some of us may not find ourselves too successful. The report from yesterday gives support to that opinion. The other must be seen, however, that the superior authorities of that period supported what is called independent experts, and they had full confidence in it. However, that does not relieve governments of the responsibility for what happened. The unpleasant conclusion that remains is that in the world of money, few and few seem to be trustworthy. They seem to have a vision of the world that no matter what the public lives, everything is allowed, everything is worth, just don't look out for anything that may seem uncomfortable. It puts the authorities in an effort to stand up and not just then but always. Now that this report is available, it should serve as a reminder to the current governments and the General of the Council of the Council of Public Affairs. It is not with those who want to buy banks, it is with politicians. It lies with those whom the people have chosen to care for their interests. V.E.G. President. It is bad to know that trust appears to be limited. A fraud report does not help. Selling valuables owned by the public is a problem. We are in a position like this, and we have made for our personalization. Governments are to keep history from repeating. Governments are to investigate who are the real owners of key institutions in our community. V.E.G. President. Sadly, it seemed a reflection of the in complacency of the present government's work to the highest degree. During the days, the prime minister seemed especially happy with the foreign trade at nearly 30% of the Arion Bank. Yet, like others, he does not know who the new owners are exactly or what their future course is. That sounds uncomfortablely familiar. There's good reason to complete the investigation of the privateisation of the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u38	Mr. President. It is a big word to tell the people that they were deceived when the Buddhist bank was sold. The personalization of the banks and their subsequent growth was the root of the collapse, and we are still dealing with the bad consequences of it. Many have concluded that it was a deception, but it was not evidence until now. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason made observations at his time in the accounts of the German bank, pointing out that there was nothing there to say about the bank's real purchase of the Bank. Vilhjálmur claimed that deception was involved. But the response was that his observations were viewed with suspicion. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and other members of the United States often called for observations on administrative matters when banks were private and doubted their quality. Agmagazine Jónasson, a deputy of the left green, along with other government officials had doubts about the real involvement of the German bank in the purchases and asked a business minister about it. In February 2006, Ögmundur received a written answer from the Food Administration in which the Agency felt that there was no evidence other than that the German bank had been a shareholder in Egla Corp. Doubts and suspicions of deception and mismanagement in the leading of the privatization and followed by it were pushed aside, including of councilmen, State Accounting and UNECE. In view of this, the study is particularly critical to the holding of the German bank on objects in Egla Corp. and thus in the Bank of Farmers, only by name and by token and by review for the final authority, risk and benefits of other parties. A report by the World Congress on the Fall of the Banks reports that in August 2002, the S group was reported that choosing a buyer of the Bank would be donated plus to foreign funds, as it was said. A foreign shareholder in Eglu Corp. introduces shortly thereafter, and the S- group was able to provide vague information about the foreign owner and the observations made in informal practice. Why was deception possible? Why were the information on how to obtain and finance the German bank, all of whom were aware of the media discussions and with those in whom we were in charge, so to speak, about how to evaluate the buyers? How could this happen? In the fall of 2012, the General agreed to a resolution brought by members of the United States, the Left Green, and the ARM led by Skúli Helgason, a member of the United States council, to investigate the privatization of all three banks. They have not been followed but should, of course, be done and have to start testing as soon as possible, since history cannot repeat itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u39	Mr. President. It is painful to be deceived, and it is disappointing to find that certain aspects of the matter were concealed. It is bad, especially because it undermines the confidence necessary for the entire system that is the foundation for society and the financial system, especially for them, financial systems, which, despite much that may be done better, are essential for the prosperity of the country and the public. If a mistake is made, it is a precious opportunity to learn. This also applies if it turns out that mistakes have been made in this matter, not necessarily to remove a U-turn system that is fundamental to the community, but to try to find the balance of what mistakes teach us. Although it is necessary in this context to look beyond the road, the main thing to do is to make the mistakes become the stones on the way forward. The management of an enterprise is set up as the goal of maximizing the interests of shareholders. We are here made the goal of maximizing the interests of the people of the country. To that end I stand here and say, just as the manager of a business would say, that of this shall learn so that the necessary confidence should be inclined to stay out a system to live as well for the common people as possible. When e.g. will be taken to free the government's possession of financial resources, we will have a solid and transparent legal basis to build on which to make the most of the wise implements of a kingdom. At this point in the matter, it is urgent to hold on to the matter, but it seems that other factors on demand, impact, and consequences are still not fully explained. The General Commission and Commission is aimed at reporting to the Commission and to provide a report to the General. Therefore, we members of the board of administration and monitoring committees have the responsibility to review the government's access to these sales, what the requirements were, within the order frames and so on. That's what's left of it. As a member of that committee, I finally agree with the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson, that to respect that role, I have no more opinions about this matter until that work has taken place. According to this, no one has to question whether there is a full will, an understanding, and the necessary means to make this matter possible to learn, to fix, and to move forward in order to create essential trust here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u40	Mr. President. I welcome this report, and I'm glad it's nice, clear, well-founded and conclusive. In the past spring, the council can be pleased with their decision to set out this matter. Of course, the results are with an enigma regarding the shameful deception, the back - tenting hatred, the masking greed, and the unscrupulous greed that is manifest in human behavior. You could say that this is the uniting thing that is the worst of Iceland's new-oriented greed cults. All the most shameful aspects of the atmosphere, mental attitude, and inculcating of human behavior in those days. However, much remains to be done, although the results are clear in this very specific aspect. The question remains to be answered: What is involved in the arrival of the foreign bank? What was the situation of a private development committee having vague confirmation and anonymous announcement that some foreign reputable investor was due? What was the situation of the F.I.N. never proved that it was a qualified owner of a large interest in a bank? What was the situation of the seller himself, the State, a minister on behalf of the State, and did this not prove? Much was resolved, and the insolence may come to the point that the buyers specifically inhibited the positive news that, as they said, it is now, a reliable foreign bank to share in investing in an Icelandic financial agency, which must be considered a lot of news. By permission of the president, I cite the report on page 18. 39: The tank will come with the knowledge, experience, and business relationships of the German bank... And even more important, with the possession of the German bank in the Bank, there is a link that the Icelandic company can use to strengthen its activities and application to foreign markets. So, what happened to all of this? No, the bank was never there. He lent his name for a generous fee and is all shameful, no matter what its appearance. Let us remember that there was more to this process than this particular factor that has now been introduced. Right from the start, these matters were wrong by the government. In the 1990's, it is beginning to turn the state's banks into partnerships. They say in these sales: It's just a formalization. The next round begins to sell from the state banks and say: "No, just reducing the share of the empire's property. The ruling thing continues in the hands of the state. That's the way it is. Third, we have years of discussion on the importance of ensuring the scattered property of banks. Then, Prime Minister Davíð, the son of Oddsson, declared himself firm in its support. We brought here a bill, a speaker, and others, to put a roof on a maximum share in banks, 8% or so. The government spoke in a way that was open to them, and this should be considered. Then, suddenly, when it's convenient for political reasons, we turned around. Then it is so important to get a basement investment to the bank, one large, dominant party responsible for the bank. Well, now it's the main thing. Then comes the mantran that it is so important to have someone foreign to the bank or at least international funds into the country to pay for their purchases. All of this is betrayed. All of this is a masquerade. Don't you need to investigate the Land Bank sale? Were we not also told that foreign money was coming to buy it? But what did the study report of the Allied Committee reveal? It was all foam. They borrowed loans from one another, personalized banks, to pay the item, and some of them were never paid off. All of them failed. The 2012 General's agreed investigation of all of this must be carried out immediately and the government should put in place all plans for further privacy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Don't overexpose the public in Iceland for what is here on paper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u41	Mr. President. Déjà-vu. A bank buys a bank that buys banks, and its trail is in old places. The British Virgin Islands of the Tortolian Crime Association of Mossack Fosseca and finally, in the arms of the ancient champion of the crash. The violations, if any were in the days of the wild Western financial market, which had been a regularized term for the true wild West, are old. The design of the committee of one man made it impossible for her to conclude on criminal activity, whether in the context of the office's Valgerður of Valmas Sverrisdóttir and Geir H. Haardes or others who failed their role as guardians of the common people. Nor is there the possibility of the illicit immorality described in the report at the time of the mood. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson does not want to discuss the contents of this report, and members of the Parliament ask to wait in tune before making comments about the deception claimed to be caused by the government and Ólafur and other prudences of men. We stand here to discuss the complete lack of knowledge of this report that we received yesterday, which is a conscious decision, including ours. Yeah. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, Brass Níelsson's son, who had a warrant under the law on the Alduary research committees to first adopt the report for his treatment before her discussion at the council. So said the report. Yes, the price paid, the greedy government that sold national property to charlatans and thieves did not predict anything too much about who was behind it or whether everything was wrong. Great is the responsibility of those who give up their national possessions to those who have no morals, who keep their treasure in taxes hidden from secret. But we must not discuss their responsibility here, for we have not had time to understand the extent of our inexhaustible inability. Nor should we discuss the promise made by the Council in 2012 to study the personalization of the banks as a whole to know, at last, how far the bottomless inadequacies and corruption reach. Mr. President. If not now, when? If not us, then who? Not the highest. Prime Minister, I'm sure there is. Not what? The chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, who has repeatedly criticized the Supreme Court on OlafurssonÓlafur Ólafsson in the AlThani case, but we intend to discuss the same rope as his complex in his committee. But we can do that, Mr. President, we sit here can make sure that the Council is willing to make a promise and fully investigate the more crimes committed in the privatization of banks. We're doing it again now, and for that, there's a hell of a way to avoid them. There's a déjà-vu, Mr. President, a bank is now using a bank to buy banks, and the trail is covered in a hidden section of the tax. We are fast asleep in the ground, and the councils here draw heavily upon us who want to find out the truth about sexual immorality that undoubtedly caught up in the private production of the nation's banks. It is dejàà-vu of the lack of authority over what is truly important to the nation, truth, honesty, and justice. It's a déjàà-vu about the time I was standing on the East Coast in the busiest revolution of my life and shouting with other angry Icelanders, with the permission of presidents: fucking hell.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u42	A respectable president. There is no sense of joy in the country now that a public report by the World Commission has been made. Much more so because of suspicion and sadness. A gullible, crooked nation was deceived. This was done by stiff-necked cheaters, deliberately and determinedly. We have grown up and enjoyed a rare quality of life in Iceland, trust in human relations, informal negotiations, a civil agreement, and a short channel that has been the hallmark of the country. For a long time, we have kept a reputation. This is not the case with those sleazy, well-dressed men in fine clothing who had a measure of dignity, invitations, and ready to go. It was not necessarily an easy way to reach the conclusion of examining this process. There were many, perhaps more, of one direction than of another. The report sheds its light on the reasons for this. Thank you for her. A man who has gone to the company of informed doubters, giddy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, himself reported that during his wilderness trek, apathy, and even ridicule, he faced suspicion. At that time, he has also come to realize that it is very strange and amazing how determined the will of some officials at that time was to believe a version of truth on the table of alleged financial geniuses and their spokesmen. That's where professionalism was served. The people of the land who struggle daily in their rushes are stunned, not necessarily angry, even more sad, because many experience that the concept of honesty, which most of us are taught to value, has been defiled. It leaves an arrow. The quality of aging and honesty are precious to each person. This certainly does not mean that they have proud people. Even at a time, we believed that these were the pillars of society, but we proved to be the common villains and now the demented men. But they are not finished. Now is the time to do not repeat the same mistake, whereas dogs are used. All the tricks in this book. A new bank sale cannot be made until it is clear who is the real buyer. It's the requirement. How many axes do we need? Many say that from this point on, there is nothing to be done, we just have to learn from it. What can we learn? Can anyone be trusted in business? We must never fall into the trap of not trusting in people. We are to engage in honest communication at all times, especially here at a council where trust is due. Sadly, though, there are some indications that this and related matters are not all buried. Let us hope that we will never again experience the humiliating time of the disaster. [[The president calls.]] When you could hardly see the sun in the middle of the day for private jets and private helicopters hovering over the street with geniuses on board. World-famous pop singers came here and sang at private parties a few songs. We hear Elton John's reluctant tone dying in the distance. Considerable, in view of the progress. By permission of the President: ▪ Goodbye, Yellow Brick Road.How's it going?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u43	Although this is a beautiful quote, the president reminds us that Icelandic is the matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u44	A respectable president. The person standing here would like to ask the government if at any time the bank was not sold. Was that option ever measured with the policy of selling all or part of the banks? In fact, the financial policy that we now discuss and consider is expected to sell more assets than the banks do. I'll mention, for example, Istavia, a public company that's been absorbing most of the money from all available aircraft sites of Iceland. I've discussed the matter with the executives. To address my concerns, I was told that it should be possibly just selling the flight crew itself, that the state would continue to own the runways. I have to admit, the formation of a toll bounds on runways in order to finance their maintenance is not particularly helpful to me. The privatization of this part of flight transport of some kind is unattainable. This thread may be taken further. It has been said that selling land induction is also a good thing. Government policy is to sell or, if spoken roughly, to steal all the resources of the state and also to reduce tax returns. What resources, then, should be built up? Why not set a goal and then enter the nation's judgment? Is that what Iceland wants? Is it a private matter of Istavia? Is there a national desire to privatize Landing? Should We Sell the Banks? It is best to remember that during the development of Kärian's activation, this procedure was considered a major factor in the overheating of the economy at the time. Could it be that economicism is in some way a government operation to deliberately neglect road repairs while scrambling for activation? On page 18. 6 In the motion program, there is a lump that is partly due to my concern. By permission of the President: In view of the need for cohesive and collective policy-making policies of public and public bodies, it is endeavored to ensure that the activities of companies in public, rather than against established economic goals, are involved. However, it is difficult to use the desired maintenance level in these companies over the next few years where there is a great need for infrastructure development, to form in the field of air transport and energy sharing, as well as to have to complete a project on existing energy sources. Decisions on new investments must be based on clear interest users, and they need to be timed in the context of the economy. An explanation of interestees, a respectable president. It seems that governments are doing nothing more than healing alone. That's why the highest talk is. Secretary of transportation on roadtoll. On page 18. 8 In a report following the bold and discreet word, it says, by permission of the president: It will be a long-term concern for government financial matters, i.e. decisions that can have unexpected negative consequences and that there is a balanced balance between income and expenses should be avoided. How can such a approach apply to bank sales? The study report that was discussed just before I spoke showed that in the white language, the Icelandic state is unable to sell financial companies, the consequences are unpredictable. With its present regularity, there is no way to make sure that the buyer is, what he is doing. The last example showed that with the 10% rule, it is actually easy to avoid all the instruments of the State to provide the necessary protection against cross-country connections and other sources of money and money to walk between the body and the head of the Icelandic nation and money policy. In a panel study, a greater portion of the budget under Sala's subcommittee is concerned with the government's share in business banks, says the fourth paragraph, by permission of the president: The market of the government's holdings in the business banks will be prepared to create a trust in the trade process. The majority of the items have no direct suggestions on these topics, but suggests a potential to consult foreign sources for counselling and management for sale. This could increase confidence in the process of sale and create the peace that is essential. Before that time, there will be a question of how the government believes that the bank will be the best possession in the long term. A framework for the maximum shareholders may have to be set and limited cross-created whenever possible. Abnormal, undesirable conflict of interests and relationships must be prevented. It is desirable to look for some institution investments among foreign financial companies. Wasn't it a foreign financial firm that then kept real buyers from selling the Bank? Here the government body of legal committees speaks of the method used previously to be reused after the Council has discussed it. A respectable president. I have the slightest interest in talking about established financial policies. But, in my opinion, Iceland's government intends to repeat all of the same school game as when Iceland was riding on the last swing. No matter how many cubic meters of professional and beautiful promises made by a member of the board, there is no difference in reality here. Triple sense of humor for our private company, all of it, leave your keys, and hurry to Tortoli.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. What a fine speech for the senator. I agree with many of the points presented in his case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's comments about the proposed sale of state property. Like what? A senator has much to worry about the plans of the present government. Perhaps no wonder who has observed the discussions here today and actually read the report that was published yesterday. In part, what is planned for sale is essential for economic policy, as it is presented, you should assume that there was some news at the very height. The secretary of finance offers an even greater measure of caution, as well as a lesson from what will be drawn out of continued action in such areas. Then I'd like to ask. A senator's opinion and agreement with me is that it simply needs to stop and look into the information that has been presented and researched before any further steps in those topics will be taken and if that does not simply mean that this financial policy is the highest. Let the kingdom fall to itself; for this is the precept for its fulfillment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u46	Yes, I think there was a wrong basis for this financial plan. She'll fall on herself if she's the highest. Secretary of finance is going to keep his word. I agree with them. Selling Istavia may not have been directly discussed at the council scene. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, my associate, has written a series of articles that are likely to be the best idea ever since the cut of bread.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with what he says, and I came in. Perhaps not many people should be surprised that I agree with myself, but it is not quite possible in these last and worst times. I believe there is a basis for financialism simply a smile. If you want to take all the precautions presented here at leisure, I'm afraid, when the media are at their head, it's hard to say. Secretary of finance earlier, the fact that all steps in this process will be taken with special caution, this may mean that the earners of financial policy are completely broken off. Let us not forget that one of the greatest things. In particular, the secretary of finance made this financial policy a place for himself and us at the expense gate, 41.5% of GDP. If something breaks down on one side of this roof, I view it as simply a matter of filming financial policy and revising it. I have previously expressed doubts about all these factors in my case. You're right next door. A senator's use of personal armor has been very frequent, almost no matter what the minister has said. Almost every one of them has talked about personal development in some areas. Is it not reasonable that we, as members of the Council, would join together to discuss this kind of rule and group and work together to do so, so that we do not have to stand here again and discuss a personal development that has gone completely in the courtyard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u48	I take my whole mind under the cheek of my head. Senator. What I would have been to see is simply a cold estimate of how much money we could reasonably take out of the banks for years and how many years would it take to obtain the value of sales compared to the fact that our personal development has usually been about somehow messing up our assets, and since three years later, they have been multiplied or 5 times as much as possible. People are left with a painful forehead. Then there is some male, an unnamed man somewhere in some islands who counts all the money and smiles between ears. Can't we take this money out of the banks? Is the State incapable of making any money out of its possessions?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u49	Mr. President. Hv. A senator introduced this case's personal development program. That's a good idea. It is a private foundation for this in part and a plan to sell part of the state and use it to pay off debt. There have been discussions that governments or linked persons have recently started, including about the companies Istavia or a part of the function of Istavia, and even Conjugation. Hv. A senator makes up what is always very interesting in this discussion, when it would come, e.g. That Istavia, which, of course, is different from the view that it contains the most important means of transportation for which the country has no choice but to make sure that there is and in business; and thus it is always responsible, even if a private citizen is allowed to skim off a road. But that's exactly what it is. The unit is selling out the most profitable parts, handing it to privates to make money in this business, but leaving the state with the rest. Which is smaller, or is nothing, out of possession. Or you have to pay. But, unfortunately, that's always the way it is. The very idea is that the private people come into the area of public business and in form that enables people to make money, leave the rest behind, and make money. The idea of carrying the case under the nation is a good price. Similarly, I think we here at the Council must consider whether the Allied will step in and stop. Just freeze these cases for now, including... in the light of recent events. Now I don't know what it is. A senator was at the annual meeting of the Association of Employment last night, which is why we are here in this discussion as the highest level of discussion. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson said so. What was the highest. Prime Minister? He was bathing. He was crying. And he may seem to be in good company to do so. No matter how heavy a person's foot would be with personal development and private business in Iceland. He was complaining about it. [[The president calls.]] There were no doubts about the right course. No, he spoke of the need for a change of mind in the nation. So I think we need to be on guard. These forces have learned nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u50	Mr. President. Yes, I can't help but agree. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. What shows Spanish in this process is that the State cannot make money. Yet, it is always said that we earn so much of the tax on the industry that we do not need money for the State. But the current government simply feels that there should be no tax on companies, businesses, or anything. Why don't we put a income tax? As much tax as is paid on the direct income of the individual's income. For example, it's an operation that I don't think would have much impact on the business of the companies. Maybe they'd be better off keeping the money in the companies and the companies would grow. I don't know. I think you come to the empty cabin when you ask about things like this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u51	Mr. President. Of course, we need more time to discuss this, and perhaps to some extent we can do so during the discussion below. Regarding the context of the part that a right-handed government, a slanted government like the one we have today, who, of course, does not want to promote the government's income supply system, wave these carrots, that all of this can be done so convenient and easy and paid off debt and anything by selling state property. Of course, temporary matters can be done. Either skiming on foam revenues while the economy is up and/or being sold gradually by the nation's family silks, valuable stocks, and not getting any money back. But where does it end when nothing remains to sell? We are familiar with examples of communities that have gone that way and that are not very successful when they have nothing but debts. For example, it does not have to go far from Reykjavík. In the case of Cheflavík, to the extent that there will continue to be an abundance of income, it would be very convenient to provide some part of the State's profits as subsidies from that operation, through the state's funds, and into the internal airport business. We can do that. If so, we could do much better with the starving business that is the maintenance of flights and international flights that do not have groundwork. In the case of Legislation, this is even more evident. The company itself claims to be able from the coming years to pay its owner, the Icelandic nation, tens of billions of dollars for profit each year. We can make a lot of money from the company, have the valuable priming rights in our community, and continue to own the company. Instead of selling it once and for all. [[The president calls.]] In that case, there is hardly any need for a witness, so clearly it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u52	A respectable president. That is where we come to the very point. I would like to see a plan on a far-sighted view of how much money can be taken from our joint resources in behalf of the state to build up and settle the debt of the state. These plans don't exist. They will never be the result of their being the reason why the Icelandic nation would have no interest in giving any skirmish to its property.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u53	Madam President. We will discuss the financial policy of this government. It shows that the government has no interest in preserving the nation's true value and increasing its value for future generations. I'm impressed by the reading of this policy that the government doesn't understand anything other than numbers on paper or wallet notes. The issues that matter to the public most, and in fact, were the brotherhood of the campaigns the future and restoration, are not in a prominent place here. We can't find stagemates here, no guide, no warning signs. We can't find anything about housing, health, education, or the road system, which is the real value of the people I referred to. All we find is the straitjacket of our new-free mind that's going to pay for these things we're worth on road transport, parking expenses. What will be next? Kitten fees, airport fees, hospital fees, what kind of fees? If the current policy is to be followed, we can assume that there will be a higher charge for our university, for our hospital care, and we will continue to pay from our own pockets, which we have actually done by paying taxes, by contributing to our contribution in this community. And now we are to pay from our own pockets for the maintenance of our roads. I ask myself, " Shouldn't it be long ago? ' Have we not long since paid for it? Why is it that our infrastructure is breaking down, and this government has nothing to say but numbers on paper and percentages? Government policies are described in a document that explains how they intend for the resources of the same common people that I find so talk about here. She is not going to give public any information about how the government plans to support these community foundations: the education system, the health system, the road system, and the housing. It's no good to have a fancy credit card from Standard & Poor's if there's no houses to warm up in, no schools to learn to read in such fine paper, if there's a rapid deterioration in the health of Farron because of the collapse of the health system. This policy stresses lowering the growth of the government, but it does so by sending the bill to future generations. Because interest is available in a different form than that of writing on paper. We gain interest in the future by looking at our health system, our education system, our roads, and other important elements of society, churning down. It's growing to have to do this in a decade or five years, or hopefully just after a few years, if we get rid of this government here, to build up what is now breaking down. Addition is much less expensive than repairs to something that is already damaged or reinvented, if this is to be divided. The purpose of this policy is the maintenance of time. Instead of investing in futures, investing in future generations, and their right to possess a good infrastructure, just as we have benefited from so far, the account is rejected, and the account is sent into the future. Future generations shall pay the bill of mortified roads, destroyed hospitals, and poor educational systems. There are interest too, Madam President. It is growing to have to pop into the future payments for building on our infrastructure. Therefore, I find it boring that the government is not here to talk to us about how she sees it, that she doesn't set up interest in future generations, that she's not taking away the right to live a decent life, by holding up business, using numbers on paper to cut down, not building up. Because numbers on paper and money in wallets are not really valuable to this country. The real value of this country lies in the people and the systems we choose to think about one another. This policy tells us that this government has no intention of fostering the systems, the people who live here. She is much more interested in obtaining a fine bank statement and a fine overview from one of the credit - valuation agencies that lower some capital, which is certainly worthy of all good pay. But there is no need to rush so quickly as this course suggests. There is a much greater need to rush into investing in the future. The future is me, and the future is everyone else who lives here. I have to say to my point of view that it is not tempting for most Icelanders in this country to live in a system where most of the infrastructure that is supposed to make sure that we have a reasonably good thing here is about to collapse. They need maintenance now. Soon they will be ruined. How much more expensive it will be to build them up when they are destroyed, for then we will need to build from the foundation instead of to sustain and rebuild what we already have. Also, it has to be said that the swing balance role of the state funds gets some kind of seat, but there's little leeway in the straitjacket of the new-free mind, but as I mentioned, it is not to see that this government is going to exercise its own balanced role. She makes too strict a rule, such as why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke here yesterday. There are chains and bracelets and belts and I don't know what to do, and I don't know what to make sure that this government doesn't use its ravishing role to react in real life if it needs to be, if the economic growth, to which everyone is so diligent in bringing up the subject, will not continue on a bowing trip. This will discuss the number of tourists and that they will probably not last forever. But there is no discussion here on how to react or what to do so that the population in this country will not be too hit if the number of tourists in this country is greatly reduced. Likewise, there is no real ideal, no value, no emphasis given by this government, but balanceing numbers on paper. Perhaps it is more apparent now that a financial program will be presented whether the government groups are planning to take over one of their own very expensive elections in their government, or if they will only speak grudgingly about the intention of doing so, as they have so far made it. It is one thing to talk about building and investing in the interiors of society, and another thing to do is to do it. This financial policy does not indicate that there is any single programme for investing in the infrastructure. Rather, it gives much more evidence of keeping hands, not building anything up, we are not going to prepare tourists who come here properly at places where they choose to visit or do anything to try to distribute them in more diverse places than they have so far. Southland is certainly a very beautiful country, but there are other places in this country that are pleasant to look at, and the value of our tourists is worth. But they don't feel the same way. At some point, it'll be too much for Southland to take over all these people. Then you may need to consider how to distribute all these tourists. But there are no goals, to distribute people around the country, or to ensure that Iceland's tourism flow will be sustainable in some way. Nor is it to see that the purpose of this government is to invest in the future. Well, we're going for the future. I have no interest in heading toward the future with the medical system as it is, with the education system as it is. I don't see why Icelanders of my age or younger should feel that it is preferable to live in Iceland when governments are as keen as they can be to invest in the interior so that people can live decent lives here with a good service and good society that cares for those who live in it and cares for the interior parts of it. Because numbers on paper are nothing compared to the real value of the nation. I hope the financial program suggests that the government, despite this document, plans to invest in the real value of the nation. But I'm not so optimistic about it, with the emphasis on these classes until this has not been on the well - being, on the inside of this community, though they may talk about other things. But words are not the same as did.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I'd like to have a word with her about something she said in her talk and struck me, and I thought it was interesting, and I got myself thinking, i.e. Breaking the infrastructure is actually growing into society, especially society into the future. I find that approach interesting, and I agree with it. I have also thought that what the present government has spoken about in building up is especially the setting of special service fees, customs and so forth, preaching personal and personal development where it means more than no payment for services. I really consider it tax. I wanted to talk to you about it. A senator here is a government that dries from not raising taxes and even beating its chest for it, but then, in the second, cracks the essential infrastructure that needs to be done and added to the nation's growing burden. A senator came on as well as preaching a certain amount of tax increase. According to modern politicales, it is probably better to talk about paying than taxes. Then they can hide behind it. I wanted to pray. A senator is only going along with me in this meditation, that, in fact, growth in society is being announced through corrosion and increased spells on these special services.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think of all the things he said right in a pita. I think it's a good word to the future, because we often use economics to destabilize what we do here in this house, making it a thing that doesn't affect real people. We talk about lowering the growth rate of the Kingdom Fund, but we do not predict that this will make us increasing the future interest rate, i.e. Those who will inherit the society in which we live today. It's also a roadtoll, auto fees, and toilet expenses. Out there in Germany, a man, for example, pays. I'm going to have to pay for the water in the bathroom. Well, that's not the way it is here. But I could see it as their manifestation a secret tax that this government chooses to impose on the public in the country. Because that's exactly what it is. A senator says, of course, it's just taxes. Let us not forget that a former government raised a tax of appreciation for food, which on the other hand was the worst for those who are affected by this problem, but it was proud to lower the tax burden of the common people and to be generally opposed to tax returns. You can easily turn the whole thing upside down and hide it in the sensuous politicians like a whale. A senator says. I would say that if this government, now seated, has put something into action, it is to turn out, spread over and, in fact, conceal what it is really doing. There will be something behind the scenes, and there will be more tax increases, and they may not be mentioned taxes, but natural expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. To be honest, I don't exactly object to tax increases. I'm not saying that. A senator thinks so. I've thought of it as a trust fund. For it, we need to make money. I'm here to tell you that the tax system should be not only a income source but also a income tier. I have considered it to be the way it should be applied also, which runs in the opposite direction. Governments, management as it is. A senator came in. It's interesting to me. A senator says about the merit tax. In the debates here at the dawn came the highest. The secretary of finance said that he saw himself as one valuable tax level that would be somewhere between the present levels, which would mean an increase in worth tax on some of the basic items that we all need equal, no matter what we have in pay. Actually, I couldn't get myself to last night's main conference of industry, but I couldn't see better in the news than to the highest. The prime minister would be preaching the same thing. This is where we come to a real politics. About how the tax system should be built, what should be its purpose. I agree with what. A senator already was. A senator agrees with me that things should be called the right names. If tax increases are to be taken, which in some cases may be necessary, they should be called that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u57	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator once again believes that things should be called the right names. A little depends on how you look at things which names you choose to call them. I think part of the ideologies that have been successful in taking over is always talking about tax increases rather than e.g. Investment to invest in the wood. I think we've taken a little bit of the language we can use to discuss what we think is a tax rise or a state fund to secure every decent society living in, whether it's a balance role or just the role of the State to earn money to invest in the main infrastructure we have in this country and use to build together a community. IRS has always had negative meanings. I don't object to calling them taxes. But I think the greatest victory for those who teach themselves to be liberal is that they have been able to link a very negative meaning to taxes and all the talk that has to do with them, most likely, if they are talking about lowering them. They are what is best at making a speech that suits them at a time. Sometimes you wonder if you should fall into the same pit to take part in this confusion and create your own ideologies and their own positive words and positive feelings and cover up anything you really don't want. But I think it's much better to be honest about things. This financial policy does not imply that the government is not particularly concerned about its society. It is far more obvious that the government is concerned only with the figures on paper and the money in a wallet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u58	A respectable president. Now I've been following this discussion very closely. I think it's my duty to keep an eye on it. I thank the former opposers for a very interesting talk about the ◯newspeak, that's a very interesting subject. But on the same subject, i.e. on taxes, says the law on public finance, that in financial policy, there is a paper on how baseline values should be followed in terms of the development of pay and tax policy and other government revenues. As follows: In financial policy, there should be a paper on how tax policy and income development should continue for the next five years. On the other hand, there is nothing left to it, absolutely missing. In fact, the government's declaration of policy speaks of integrating green taxes. You could have imagined that they could have fallen right into financialism, but they can't be found there. What I found interesting when I spoke at first. That is exactly what the senator was discussing, and this trend from direct taxes to indirect ones. That's something we've seen happen in the past few decades, i.e. trying to push down these direct taxes is an attempt to replace these indirect taxes here and there. How interesting it would be to receive a report or a summary of each tax increase or decrease, taking into account these new indirect taxes and tax paying that have been placed on the right, mostly right, the past few years. I was wondering if we could just have a little discussion on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u59	Madam President. Thank you. In response, a senator wholeheartedly agree with him that there is good reason to examine this subject. I'm asking myself, " Shouldn't I ask just one inquiry to the State Retrospect on this matter, or possibly to a person who is better equipped to answer it?'That's the first thing I can think of as the answer to this question. I just want to talk about it for a second. A senator spoke of, that there was no need for any baseline in this financial policy. Hv. A senator is an executive speaker, 3rd less short of a time. The financier and it specifically states that the baseline values mentioned in this policy are, in fact, lexicons at baseline, which should be considered in the type of policy without any actual meaning in the words or how these policies fit into those baseline. Here are words like self-sustaining, cautious, stable, transparent, and fixed. However, it does not comment on how this policy should ensure these values or really evaluate what these values mean for government officials. It may be just the opposite of what we've been discussing here, i.e. how easy it is to say a word and let it mean what you want. It is the easiest thing to look it up in a dictionary and write down the definition and to describe no real understanding of what the words involve. It is one thing to write down a few words or to say them but another to be behind them, to understand them, or to feel that they have some meaning in their mind, let alone the need to carry out some of the words sent down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u60	A respectable president. This is just an interesting point based on the way the policy was set. According to the government law, a policy should be established and then published on how this policy matches the baseline values. When it is missing, it is a fracture of the baseline values for specific firmness and stability and, in particular, transparency. It's a little fun how not to do this violates policy conditions. Again with the taxes: I've been wondering where it would be best to make such a inquiry. Whether it would be directed to the secretary of finance, a report to the State Review Centre, or where it would go. Perhaps there would be something that we could dig up in the side room later. I ask: Since policy actually doesn't meet the conditions set out in the public financial laws, is this a valid and valid policy to be agreed with by the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u61	Madam President. Thank you for your interesting discussion. I can't say that this is a controlled policy in my mind. It should be based on these baseline values, this report. The first thing I'm going to see about the legality of this policy, or how it comes out, is that when it comes to sustainability, by permission of the President: One of the ways to demonstrate commitments is to be manageable and not to place unreasonable burdens on future generations. Self - control also calls for society's preparing for an average age and a slower population growth. I can't see that this policy is taking into account any of this. This, in fact, involves the subject of my speech on the matter of borrowing from future generations through this arrangement, taking loans from growing generations to come. These high interest rates will appear in the form of poor structures and, in fact, poor communities that we build together and live in future generations. There is no sustainable aim to be found here, no caution, but the report says, by permission of the president: It will be a long-term concern for government financial matters, i.e. decisions that can have unexpected negative consequences and that there is a balanced balance between income and expenses should be avoided. There is nothing about this cautionary approach. The government will fully rely on bank sales without knowing what it will bring. There is no caution in this policy, and there is no transparency in the way it should be used and no sustainability here. Stability is a word used by government leaders. I don't know how stability we're living here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u62	Madam President. I'm going to come up here and discuss this financial policy only from my interests and from my understanding of the world and ideologies. From an early age, I've always had the idea that we can change this community for the better so that it's a community for everyone but not a few. We're over 300 yards. a nation of people who live in a region full of natural resources, one of the richest people in the world, enough to clean water, enough for pure energy. We could be much more sustainable in many other areas, such as. for food production, if that were the policy. I'm afraid the political isn't there. Perhaps it has to do with what ideologies have been in the last few years and decades behind legal and policy in this country. In the abundance of our lives, there are too many people who live in poverty. There are children who grow up lacking and who do not enjoy their tools and thus have the rights to feel self - righteous in our community. We should be able to arrange for such opportunities and rights. I don't understand why we're not there. That's incomprehensible to me. The vast numbers of people are falling under pressure, anxiety, emptiness, depression, loneliness, and so on. Children as well as adults get caught up in drugs to process emptiness. There are many people who do not get a handle on life, find no meaning. I get it so well because I've been there. It is difficult for a group of animals like us to find a purpose in the individualism of freedom. What's the point? Why are we here? It's people who are good, but it's as if we didn't fully understand the chain effect that the poverty of others has on the community everything, on democracy, on the environment, and hence on all of us. We must not allow ourselves to slip into the individuality of the mind and become undistracted. We are all here together and the circumstances of different groups affect us, especially if we are looking in the long run. We're looking at an emergency environment situation, the climate. It cannot be expected that persons in the community who live from day to day or from week to week or from month to month will actually have the ability to look ahead and see the big picture. We must work together as a team, making sure that everyone stands equal so that we can share in the world's major affairs. This is the precise ideologies on which the controversial policy is based, i.e. not the one I was talking about. Rather, the idea of subjugating common systems by financing them and such personal matters. Government property is to be sold to pay off debt, not build up wood. It's policy. There are men who are advocates of this, or one who has recently been a member of the media, a spokesman for the Independence Party, to turn down the fishing fee. While the major majority of Icelanders want more from their resources, more money from their resources, it is said to reduce the price of hunting and extract the genetic tax, which is one of the best equations we have. It's amazing, especially with where we're headed, not just Iceland, but the whole world. We have to look at the bigger picture. This is a shocking conclusion, especially when we consider how our community might look. We're so few here, and there are lots of opportunities. We can do great things if we have ideas and dare to try something new, do something different. We do not have to pursue other nations. We have independence. We have an independent currency. We really have so many opportunities to try new things and not be afraid. It was in February that MMR surveys showed that a greater proportion of the population feel that Iceland is in the wrong course because of economic corruption, politics, social inequities and deterioration of the welfare system, morals and education. It's a bit of a striking conclusion. If I was a member of the government, I would have sat down and thought my turn and asked myself, " Where are we already talking about the problem that Iceland is on the wrong track? This financial policy does not offer a new route. This is not the new route the Icelanders want to see. It's, by President's permission, as usual. And the public's main majority will be beneath us. That's clear. President. I miss not having heard this discussion from the highest level. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of well-being and really from all counsellers on this course. I lack information on the effects of the highest. Ministers believe the policy will remain on their lawsuits. That discussion has not occurred. Counting at the highest. Ministers that they will be able to go to the necessary structure that the nation has called after, and the divisions of these ministers have promised before elections, or have they emphasized? I know that there is a different understanding of what is a promise. But the good news is that policy isn't seared in stone. I understand a new government can bring a new course, and that's what we need to keep in mind. I encourage those who want to build up another kind of society but this policy frames in to move in, demand society to take on a new course, demand that a new government take over, dare do something new, something radical. Collaborators are welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u63	Madam President. I thank the senator for her speech and believe that it was a brilliant reminder for us about where the government is taking its course, i.e. To draw out how it affects individual groups and how their situation is today. Today, we face the fact that little or nothing is to be changed. As the senator came in and we've been discussing here, it seems to be in a way that it's not to be undermined and privatized, both in education and in the health system and what it is now. Of course, whether it is with children or with older ones, the worst sufferers in the community. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator in view of what she said about that group: There is a tip from a financial body that the time has come to create a new generation account. They were built for Iceland at the turn of the century. Because of the sustainable concept this policy is based on the opinion of the Council that these accounts are worthy of. [[The president calls.]] Does not the senator agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u64	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I admit I don't recognize this phenomenon, generation accounts. But I find this interesting and want to know more. Where it is. A senator can come back to the platform, and I would appreciate it if she would present it only to me so that I can better explain how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u65	Madam President. Generation accounts are people's prospect for the future and for a certain time. This will examine the benefits, whether in pay or in other matters, which turn to the insides and other things that matter to us all, covering a particular period of time, which was done around the end of the century. In fact, the union requested that this be done, reminds me, at the last assembly, so it is for a council case that merits our reinstatement to be approved. At any rate, there were some of the majority of the financial committees that approved the idea and felt that it was worth doing, if it wasn't a problem. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, who agreed that it would be wise to do this in view of, for example. that we were postponing structure in this building. We do not suggest enough for future infrastructure, so it would be interesting to see it done because this is always talking about paying off debts and not doing anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u66	President. If I understand this correctly, I was talking about performing diagnostic work and the needs of future generations and the infrastructure of future generations, I think it's just a brilliant idea. I talked about the day about the Iroquois tribe in North America, which has the seven-generation rule, since no decisions are made if they were considered to be having a negative effect on the next seven generations, which I think is an amazing thing we should all think about. Because, of course, we are borrowing this earth. We're born here. We all have resources that we have common rights, but we don't have them. We're just borrowing it, and we need to make sure that we're not restricting the rights of future generations to this quality. If I get it right, I'll be sure to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u67	A respectable president. Now it's fun to be in a council hall. We're discussing real politics and how we see society coming in our way. Thank you. A senator greatly appreciates a good speech and finds the perspective she has on financial policy, as well as interesting. What are we looking at at at the highest level? Government? It's about extorting everything into flat operations, taxes, or whatever credit numbers have to do with everyone, regardless of income, position, and economy. In fact, there's a roof on the outpost side. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because she was talking about poverty, how she envisions how she can handle it by general means of eliminating poverty and promoting the welfare of the country if it is covered on the expense side, and then all else to be settled within the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a pleasant question. It's one of my main interests how we can eliminate poverty, and I always like to answer for it and discuss it. I have proposed a synonym that we look at the possibility of paying all Icelanders any amount of pay, no matter how much work they do, or if they don't do anything about it, we'll look at the possibility of paying. This is an idea that I don't think I have time to explain enough here. Of course, we need to be careful that money from our resources is evenly distributed so that everyone has the same opportunity because it is not possible to talk about rights without talking about opportunities. If people don't have the opportunity to use rights, they're only virtual. Then they're not there. Then they're only beautiful words on paper, like in financial policy, those beautiful words about sustainability, and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u69	A respectable president. Beautiful words on paper. Politicians, I guess I'm one of them, I need to start thinking about myself like that, that's not later loved, we often tend to sprinkle us with beautiful words, especially when it comes to us having to get like a few votes from the voters we're talking about. This financial policy shows black and white to the highest power of elections. Government classes were not worth the paper, although it is no more paper than under this financial policy because it is not big. But here, for example. spoke to the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, spread out beautiful words that when it came to the moment of the very immediate privatization process, a world of Congress was overwhelmed with pleasure. But it is not to be seen in the financial policy of taking special action in the light of a change in position or new information or something about getting a belt, bracelets, chains, and not a concrete suit. þm. Steingrimur J. Sigfusson proclaimed as friends when the time came for personal prostitution? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's all about the outpost side, the caution, at the top. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u70	President. The problem with the political bitch today or the political bullet is that it's so shortsighted. I think that must be why everyone's thinking about the four years. What can we do now to make it look like we're doing something really cool and good for the future, so we'll be re-elected in four years? I think this is a direct result of the lack of opportunities for the public to participate in decision-making and policy making. Their voice is not strong enough in all this process. If we want to start watching in the long run, we have to bring the public along, and we have to let people come up to policy and open up this whole system. This enables us to look to the future. If we are to make changes that really matter, it is clear that they will take much longer than one, two, three, four years. We need to start laying the foundation for the future and to think further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u71	A respectable president. I know I'm going to be found guilty of bias, but I want to thank you. A member of the council is eager to give a pleasant and vital speech. I wanted to get to the indirects and direct taxes in my previous answers. The policy has often seemed to be going into indirect taxes, such as roadtoll and nasal taxes, etc., on radio charges and the like, but the effects of indirect taxes, a tax that comes once a year, a fairly large amount, are mainly on those with fewer hands and younger people. There was something about the tone I heard in the talk of each one. A senator and I think that's much better now. The difference in the situation created by this tax policy, which is really none, but is offered in word, adds to the difference of character. A senator is so well - versed in his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u72	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's inquiry and comment. It is true that there is a tremendous difference between us, e.g. Just having less money means the tax's hiding everywhere. You can call it the poverty tax. It's always more expensive when you can't pay for things right away, but you need to borrow. The IRS seems to be hiding everywhere. The government that now sits on the concept of the Neo-freeism called, by permission of the President, I don't know the Icelandic term, I don't know how to say it. It's the idea that always needs to make them richer and richer because somehow the money will fall down to the rest of us from them. [[Take it up to the top: breadcrumbs.]] - The bread crumbs theory, yes, exactly. But it doesn't work. She doesn't serve us. We've already tried this. Such experiments have been going on for two and a half decades and have not worked. [[The president calls.]] When something does not serve us, we must face it and take up a new course and try something else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u73	A respectable president. This trend has actually occurred without the nation's informed consent. Is it in general our will to go into indirect taxes, to use taxes like roadtolls, and to charge into the toilet and stuff? Is that what we want in general? Is that something we choose in elections? I don't think so. Just as we're making a pact proposal in this room, we need some kind of public deliberation proposal that we'd like to make with our national regulations, which would create this frame for us right here at the council: No, we don't want that form, e.g. which we pay for the State Radio is in the form of a nose tax. Rather, it is a direct tax from the taxpayer, not through the amount that comes every year. I know that when it came to paying the money fund for the elderly or the nose tax, it had a huge effect once a year on what I had among my hands, that was quite negative. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The maladies were tightened that month.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u74	President. Publicity proposals, I like this new word and I agree that we should have such a system. Of course, public decisions need to be made more. I don't know how to do that. But the fact that we're not even thinking about it, that we're not discussing properly how we're going to do this and how we're going to do it, I think it's very serious. The fact that we have a monopoly on something that doesn't serve us, doesn't serve the majority, I think it's serious. How many times are we going to hit the same wall without changing things? Perhaps the point is, those who are in power do not stumble on a wall. Maybe that's the problem. Maybe the problem is some sort of decontamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u75	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very good speech; he entered the core of politics, which deals with the way we want to live in. I find this kind of speeches to be exemplary just when discussing government financial policy because it shows the basic formula for the social vision offered. And that is not a good vision. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because she introduced terms like self-sustaining and thinking about the future. The commission made by a major body of legal committees says, on permission of presidents, bold paper: Achieving economic growth is the key priority of policy development. Is it possible to be such a political bitch in the 21st century when we're going to be dealing with climate issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u76	Madam President. Thank you for a good question. No, of course, it's a fairy, total total disavow. We're heading into massive changes in climate and environment, and we have no idea where they're leading us. But it is known that if we continue our course today, we are not on our way, speaking of this seven - generation rule, that we must not impair the rights of the generations coming after us. If anything, we should talk about how we can reduce our economy, not expand it. It's automatic, it's the core of insatisfaction to talk about it. I'm going to thank you. A senator for pointing out this ridiculousness. I don't know exactly how to fight this thing because it's a much bigger problem than just in Iceland. I witnessed at a meeting of the New York International Assembly meeting in New York City discussing ocean affairs; there was no one there to see that we might have to talk about reducing the economy, reducing production, and reducing consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u77	Madam President. I really want to say amen after the material and then add that what we have to do is divide what we have equal. I think that's the only thing we can do if we're going to make any progress. I find it very sad when it turns out that this is the biggest piece of paper I've ever seen. The government has no bearing on climate issues. For single-use container induction will be performed in the EEA below. That's all right. Of course, we're to implement such instructions and set environmental policies, but we must also do so in big matters. I think it's very sad how this government has hit that test.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u78	Madam President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. Senator. You're absolutely right. What also worries me is that when you discuss these matters, they never look at the responsibility of big companies, what responsibility they have. But there is always a lot to say about the consumer's responsibilities. It is impossible, in fact, when the majority of people on this earth are in such an economic state that they cannot make decisions from sustainable products to shop. You can't be expected to do that. This must come from above. We need to take responsibility for this. A big company has to take responsibility for this. We need to distribute the resources and money from them, so we try to eliminate poverty. It's the first step in saving the environment, I think, if we're exasperating poverty; that would be a huge step in that direction. If so, we are wielding the authority of the individual so that he can take this responsibility. Then we can all take responsibility together. Wouldn't that be fun?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u79	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing on financial policy in the years 2017/2022, a new government policy to five years of age, in line with the new legal legislation on public finances. Here are some aspects of the matter that have been discussed, both in form and in the contents. But I would like to begin with as a representative of the Board of Directorates and Commission for a brief discussion of the doubts that have come up in the discussion within the Commission on official financial legislation and to what extent they might be at odds with a constitution. This, of course, is fundamental. This opinion is now considered by a board of administration and monitoring. If by day this law does not pass the constitution, obviously it must be a means of bringing it all together for the better, as it has been observed in the senators' speeches, if at least at the bank, at least. some service in the Iceland Constitution before legislation that is a gray area towards it. In particular, the Committee's review has raised doubts regarding the lack of adequate financial management of the Allied government, not sufficiently guaranteed by the law. Overemphasis on the European Commission's 41st C.E. is being moved to the Commission. The constitution that says, by permission of the President: No fee can be paid, unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. And into 42. par.Unable to connect to (b) What will be considered in the following article? ▪ In each regular General Assembly, the bill shall provide budget for the financial year in which the bill shall include a report on the state's income and expenses. Thus, it is very clear where this authority really exists, and there is doubts that the lawgiver's will at this point was in order to provide it to some extent to the Commission. This is especially true for us on the scene of the management and monitoring committee and I would like to read it here in the discussion because it has not been discussed specifically. Second, I want to question the question, because it may not have been part of this, for it is, of course, the government's stand for the future, for the next five years, about how public funds should be handled and what the box should be on that subject. It is now that the government was made up of something very unusual and especially in a very unusual time. Thus, the government did not have the usual time frame to aim for spring elections. That's as much as it's ever seen. The secretary of finance is stuck with a large part of the outline and basis of his predecessor, Bjarni Benediktsson, the present prime minister, in the way he and his Ministry of finance provided the box for the next five years. Now it has not been identified in the case of the directors what changes this policy took from the cuttle of government development to the point at the highest level. The secretary of finance then contributes to policy. We need answers. This is often the case when we are having a thorough discussion here at the council that some doubt is right, it tends to deepen our understanding of all of us as to what is going on. It is no less that way today. I now feel that after a conversation with members of many categories, both on the front and also at the Senate Hall, it is impossible to complete financial policy unless we know the details of the financial strategy. On such momentous matters, we cannot make a dramatic discussion of the future, thereby shutting ourselves down, possibly, to the welfare system and to the interior of society's heads. It just doesn't work. That is irresponsible. Now, in view of the law that a secretary of finance should submit the plan tomorrow, we'll see what it looks like before we settle the two-yard policy. This is important. We've discussed a considerable deal about the management of the situation, the fact that policy is fundamental and then the plan is based on it, followed by each year's budget, and the outcome of the case. But we too have well discussed these past few days, considering the very nature of this course. Of course, looking to the political emphasis on policy is the most important thing. It says that the basis for the plan remains a constant economy throughout the prophetic period, and as shown in the Treaty of a new government, all improvements within society's interior are to be extended within the swing. It's actually the undertone there and the same here. It is assumed that if there is some change or failure, there is no room for new income. That's totally in the way. So this is, in effect, a very decisive right approach and a right political bitch. It is also noted that, in fact, a cut-off is expected to be significant maintenance of the period, as well as in a vague way discussing privateisation and possibility, as indicated by the Commission's permission of the more part by the President's permission, to finance economic infrastructure in cooperation with institutions investments, such as the pension fund, ◯. It's a sort of committee opinion thing that means private funding on public infrastructure. That's what you usually resent in politics, when it comes repeatedly that it seems that right men find it hard to act as right men in the consignment of elections. In fact, it was noticed when the highest. The Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson was on a topic for discussion, and I especially remember one factor, I mention it here, where we were standing both me and Harðardóttir Hardyddótttir, a member of the United States council, and we sat down for answers to Páll Magnússon, the spirit manager, now why. A senator who especially wanted to stop at the point that there was a great and strong welfare tone at the head of the Independence Party in the leading of an election, and he felt that it was a great deal of talk. But there is, of course, a classic policy in the ensuing election that all the right categories paint the impression that they want to do everything for the community and everything for the infrastructure, but then when it comes to the implementation, they are going to get the money where they are, having doubts about all steps taxation, doubts about the high income taxes, and the increase of resources in general, and may prefer to draw together much more of the government spending, which means nothing other than going on the inside, and further emphasising on operating of the service, i.e. that people pay for the services they receive whether they are in the medical system, education system, or elsewhere. This led to the earlier discussion that it would have been refreshing if the regal had simply offered up under signs of stationation and had just said that then, because there are no new criteria for the campaign in October. Resurrected with the high moral force responsible for which it could now have identified the underlying factors, thus telling voters the way it was, i.e. that there was no room for any creative object, and it would continue to impose on society so that it would continue to suffer in reality for the right course, to begin in the process of collapse, collapse, and then the right course again. Of course, it is more important than tears to believe that in such a long period of time, an Icelandic society will have to live in constant maintenance. In fact, we are beyond the pain limit in some parts of the infrastructure, such as the formation of the road system and the health system. All because here, on the other hand, we share in the consequences of a fall that the right categories are responsible for and on the other hand, the same right categories of economic control that assume that it can never under any circumstances be supported by our joint infrastructure and our shared possessions, which our community truly is. I would also like to consider just some of the factors that have taken place at the end of the discussion or the above. There are factors in the environment. When we were in government between 2009 and 2013, the organization, and the left movement reduced the emissions of greenhouse gases. It wasn't because we were such a great government. It was because it subsided the scope of the economy. Sadly, these factors remain completely involved, i.e. Standard growth results in increased greenhouse gas emissions and thus greater pressures on the earth. Perhaps the biggest concern is that the standards we are used to apply to us as we look at whether a community works or is not this traditional economic approach. This section describes the economic forecast, i.e. Continued economic growth is essential and only discussed the main driving forces of these growths, which are domestic demand, employment investments, and the growth of tourism. This is certainly a different kind of growth than that of the collapse when we were talking about foam and debt. Yet, all economic growth, in any way, is a economic growth that actually takes the benefits of future generations. I miss this financial policy of society, which has recently undergone the terms of the Paris Convention on Climates, nothing to conclude that climate standards and greenhouse gas emissions need to be guided by policy implementation. Let them vary in half how good the course is or how bad, whether these frames are too wide or too tight, how the roof is, the percentages, and the maintenance, etc. But that is the lowest and most unacceptable but that large, long - term plans are first and last in favor of the climate goals we have undergone. It must be that way. It is, in fact, empty talking about the fact that climate is being stressed if not in all social policies. I'm now excited to see a financial plan tomorrow: Is that a good chapter on climate? They're talking about... I'm sorry, Mr President, I have to sneeze now. [[Senator sneezes.]] Ah, this is going to be AlIIa's annual festival film. It's natural incorruption other than that in such large schedules it's addressed specifically, and in the state financial programme itself it must be a theme, if there's something to mark what we're saying, I don't speak about a word the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister for Environment and Resources to be on top of the agenda now, but they've ever been built up and ever in history, seems to me, there's got to be a way around state budget. I'm excited to see it. Not only will it be a special chapter on climate events but it must also become part of all other issues if there is something to mark what has been said so far. This also applies to other future programmes. The climate must have a very handsome place there. A respectable president. In spite of the dramatic future course we have here, our main focus is on the failure of all of this. I have to say that after today's discussion, when we're talking about a report of the research committee on the personalisation of the Bank and we realize that there is a serious conflict in the government's leadership of that matter, that it is a government that has a much weaker part, hardly possibly more part at the World Council, and is, in fact, as it has repeatedly been pointed out, not more with the voters behind him. A government government that stands on bread legs that they do not have that position - she has, of course, a commission to the council and to our administrative traditions, etc., but she has the position to establish a plan for five years so colored in political addiction and emphasis on very decisive right politics? I say no. It's not. The importance of such economicism and economicism should be reflected in the late collapses so far that we try to balance some kind of society, some common understanding of the contents of the Community Convention. What is it about being here on this land, this little nation on this land, and trying to put up with what best happens in the world in having a decent welfare system? That's the big deal. These pillars have been cut down for the past few years in the name of the right political bitch in the leading of the crash, in the collapse of the crash, and then in the spirit of the right politics since then. We need so much that we can rebuild the infrastructure, whether it is roads or infrastructures, so that we can live up to our names and that the values or main reasons for developing sustainability have some support. If government policy is not only that it takes no account of climate goals but also that it implies that it is continuing to eat the community inside, it is not sustainable. That's when we're saying, "We're going to be future generations of late society than we live in ourselves." We want future generations worse roads than we do ourselves, worse health systems, worse education systems, etc. All in the name of the fact that we're going to be in the spirit of some obscenity with excel documents and columns to pay off the debt of a state fund faster than sensibleness to these same infrastructures. That's the point. A respectable president. I'd like to describe a special pleasure that seems to be breaking free from the fact that we're going to see a national financial programme before we close this policy. It's unacceptable. This is incorrigibly, unwise. We are working on the basis of new laws. We need to do so with our eyes open. It would be unacceptable to accept state financial policy before the budget is established because we would actually be locked up in a straitjacket and could not discuss the outline of the plan. It is totally unacceptable, and it must be clear to everyone. It's all underneath. Of course, the most important thing is that this government, which has more weakness, has gone away. If she is going to continue this course that is displayed in this document, it is even more evident how important it is that it is to leave and a government that is in the spirit of socialism and equations will come to power and plan for it in that spirit. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to agree with her when she speaks of the great collective project of mankind that is working to stop global warming. How interesting it would have been if we had seen that grand task reflected in this course! But the policy is very strong, saying that the nation is growing older and that there are challenges, but little is said about how it should be handled. We have growth in one industry that affects the economy, but there is no more talk about it. So we must wait for a financial program to see how things are handled. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does she feel about the role of a financial body that evaluates policy? The more part of the legal committee is listed as a financial body that didn't say anything about policy. However, this makes very serious comments to her. Among other things, it is said, by permission of a president: ▪ If the situation proves to be different from the economic forecast, the government may be in a straitjacket of its financial policy. And it recommends that instead of a point estimate, one percent of GDP when talking about delivery, it would have been better to return some distance if someone did not trust in calculating the fluctuation equations. In fact, the survival, debt, and expenses have been framed. It was not necessary to set a spending roof. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: How does she feel about the financial Council's comments in this regard, and how does this counsel and professional judgment apply? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u81	President. Thank you. A senator's question. All this equipment for new financial laws does not come from heaven. It's a long way to go. A senator knows well from his time as a financial minister who is about to gain better control over the budget and responsible outside of these cases here in Iceland. This is part of a need for a restoration of the Icelandic community following the collapse. We need to get a better grip on the way we run this community. It's very important. When I speak here with doubt about this law, I do not suggest that it is not there, is there not. But exactly that as it did. A senator here refers to the financial council, which is a very important tool on this route, both the Ministry of finance and the Senate, and I feel that when it comes to the fact that this valuable field of experts, which produces a great deal of research and good advice on this matter, it is completely ignored in the effort of the greater part, it shows to a man the magnitude of the demonstrations of all of this. That's a worry. I'm afraid to say it's better not to have financial advice and then just face it and say it, just be honest in his own will than to plan for some professional and decent outside but actually ignore it all. A financial body points out various factors that we have been criticizing here in the smaller parts, such as that we can land here in a straitjacket, better than a dot, like a dot. A senator here mentioned, as well as the speculations and questions of each position, about adding a letter to other restrictions directly leading to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u82	Madam President. Now's the time. A member of the former city councilman who is well acquainted with local government. State and rural society are covered by government laws. It is made up of members of the rural community. There are three billion if we raise the percentage to billions next year, 6 billion at the following year, and then up to 7 billion in 2022. But no one can have authority over the communities. No one can say: Because of its average commitment to public finances, a person must adopt his own plan. No one can handle this. So I want to ask you why. A senator: Does she not believe that if the policy had been to be realistic, at least some distance would have been needed? Can we say that the baseline values for caution, firmness, and stability depend on the policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u83	President. I'm worried about my communities. Especially when you see almost aggressive in these activities towards the rural areas of this policy. Because our rural communities are not just some business module here and there in the country. A very important aspect of public service is the community. Maybe that's where our most important play and elementary school system is. We now face a very serious situation in terms of educated teachers in Iceland. After a few years, we might be in a crisis if we don't take our advice. The root of the problem may be the financial problems of the rural society and the abnormal division between state and rural society. Farmers simply need a steady foundation in order to survive this service, and teachers need a higher salary. [[The president calls.]] It's about the locals' status.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u84	A respectable president. Now we have considered some aspects of this synonym. There's always a new diagnosis of what's missing. Looking back on this matter: We have done much research on what is missing in this Senate arrangement under official financial laws, where there are holes. It's actually in the form half-empty. When a council proposal comes from the government, a proposal that doesn't meet the form, why should the council accept it? If a minority government was in power -- as it really is now, democratic, the current government received a smaller part of the vote, fewer than the political barrier, there is a technical defect in the campaign that needs to be legalized - and this proposal would come from it backwards. Congress wouldn't accept such a proposal from a minority government: No, it's missing, it's empty, you want to do it better. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why should we make this suggestion clear? Why don't we just throw her out backwards?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u85	President. That's an interesting question. I do not deny that I have often thought about these matters, perhaps not about this subject now, but also about other matters. We can refer to a framework plan, the whole area around the EU member parish, etc. Transport plan, how we deal with it. That's the reality, since we're here at the Generals, in fact, making rules against ourselves that we don't follow. We say we should accept a transport plan and on the basis of it should be done like gay, but then we'll just do something else. Who's going to interfere? Who should have thought of that? Of course, it is true that you are right. One senator says that it is our own to make comments when we do and when we do not proceed to the law of making plans. We have been able to deal with this in the frame plan, whether the proposal presented is in accordance with the law at any given time. I mention, for example, one priming option. Was that in harmony with the law or not? We'll deal with that. Some feel that they are, and others do not. It is as much in this regard as it is in many others that we need to exercise more discipline in dealing with our own rules. Because, in reality, those rules cannot be ignored if we do not take lightly into practice them ourselves. Then it's a little tricky to expect other people in the community to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u86	A respectable president. This is more precisely a description of the state of mind I've had in wrestling the past few days, in the speculations I've had to cross when I read myself through this direction, what it should be. I can understand that we're in the induction process. Still, there are excuses. There could be a number of things in this financial policy that might not be completely updating the law, but on the other hand. It's just missing everything, it's completely empty, it's not even tried. There is nothing about tax development or development unless GDP is to be carried out. Nothing about taxes, for example. In fact, when it is lacking in trying to do so, you cannot forgive. There's no excuse for them. [[The president calls.]] But if it is at least tried, you can look at it on such grounds as whether it is at least trying but simply missing enough evidence to do better. Then perhaps it would be all right to behave in another way. But this is at least, as I say, empty and I think we should just throw it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u87	President. Of course, this is a lot to think about when the pot is finished and perhaps it reflects a lack of shape, the management of the situation, even this time pressure as high as possible. Minister underprivileged. A new government would have been in hand with the council to live for this unusual time in the way of extending its induction period so that there would be more extra extra extra space around these first steps, so that the council could share in testing this new device rather than sticking to the device as if we were on a routine year trip and elections would have been at the usual time, and the minister would have had enough control to put his policy into practice. Instead, we have laws that focus on it rather than on a time line that is completely different. We receive the paper that is not in harmony with the framework decided by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We have in the past weeks, for an acute three months, listened to the Minister's declaration, especially the Minister of Action and Bright Future, indeed, the secretary of transportation, who has had a wide variety of declarations of the necessity of built-in in by the seminaries, which may be somewhat consistent with what men spoke about before elections. At the same time, we have heard the secretary of finance, who also spoke for elections about the need for infrastructure in all of these areas, speaking in a very different way. Now it's important to make a significant venture and to bring up a financial policy that, in his view, is most important not only to this council but to the season of election, a policy that seems very common to many of us to go against all the structural ideas. The Senator mentioned climate issues in his speech. The other day, I noticed in a talk entitled The Greatest. Environment Ministers that it did not provide much for the application programmes of the previous climate governments, since they were supposed to blow up so much. Yet, for the first time in the parish program and on certain projects, much money was put there. I agree with what. A senator said that it is necessary for us when we are handling financial policies only to see the progress of the financial agenda. It is such a conflicting message to come from the government, from some professionals, naturally, to their litigators. But then the government's point figures tell us that there is supposed to be a certain amount of freezing here, according to economic teachings and the like. The question is, If not now, when should we go into building? Doesn't the senator worry about the expansion effect? [[The president calls.]] Or is the senator with ideas of how to reduce the impact and yet still build on wood?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u89	A respectable president. First of all, questions about who. Inconsistencies between this policy and the emphasis on the individual Ministers of the government, however, it is a natural cry of heaven. But most of all, it's the highest. Health Minister has said and is in the New Government Strategy on its main focus on health matters because when it arrived, it has been going to the highest level. The health minister on what he is doing and when and how much he has not answered in a very decisive way, not to make a firm statement, but usually to refer to this financial program and says that it will reveal all of this. It is not easy to see that there must be a climax to the tension tomorrow, when it becomes clear what the actual political emphasis of the government is on individual issues if the emphasis is to be placed within the course that really assumes a very narrow framework. That's key. Hv. A senator also asks when to go to the structure. I agree with that question. If not now, when on earth? Should we continue in the next five years, and how should the economic situation in Iceland possibly be if we are not going to do good to our infrastructure? A senator also asks how to counteract the force of expansion. To taxe the tourism, we need to be fearless. We need to use the tools we have to earn not only earn but also control the extraordinary tensions in the economy. We need to do so with our eyes open and without us being blown off by our own words, as I sometimes feel is a problem to the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u90	Mr. President. That's exactly what I think is going on. Therefore, it is important to have the financial program done before setting up the financial agenda. We know that the need for health - care programs is huge, the nose of nursing homes, the dentists of the elderly, the construction of the Land Hospital, that health institutions around the country have suffered too much lack for a very long time, perhaps simply a wrong course for a very long time. If there is going to be an explanation in the financial program that the total total total share of funds and a lot of money in the health system, you wonder if you will not really need a substantial amount of money on transportation, education, climate. A senator mentioned earlier, and another project discussed by government ministers. Therefore, I would like to hear the senator's speculation as to whether we really need to get this financial strategy out before we can complete a financial discussion because of the contrast between financial ministers and professionals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u91	A respectable president. Exactly because of how close the state of the government is, how narrow the time frame is, and because we're doing this for the first time, we can't really finish this policy until the plan is established. It's just that simple. I agree with it. A senator mentions both a great need for health care and a plan for a lot of rest and a few aspects of the system that are to be done well and better throughout the world. The chairman of the Archipelago has often acted as if he was especially well qualified to cover numbers and calculate. Given my knowledge of calculations and simple coordination, I don't see that this situation works out differently than the fact that there are other factors to be taken seriously if the emphasis is to be made as high as possible. Minister's talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u92	Mr. President. I now feel a little thin-organized here in the hall as far as the executives are concerned, with one pleasant exception, it seems to me, except for the Presidential chair, especially for participation, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, who has not yet been seen in this discussion, so I know. And also, the chairman of the budget board is not here today, but the Secretary of Economics and Economic Affairs may have known, however, that he was here in the discussion yesterday and the day, in the early part of it. If we're to take note of the fact that this is one of the most important cases of each terms, if not just the case, then it's a little interesting for the administrations. Does a little mind have a thing to do with it? Are they not proud of the charge? I have to admit it without reading the facial expressions or the river that I felt the most. The financial and economic secretary, who somehow had no particular happiness here in discussions and objections, may have received this and more readily from his predecessor and the members of the Ministry of State when he came in, and a few days later, he was admitted to the council. It's a long story to the next town. The biggest case in the season is two arks. It only gets into the ninth page of this thin paper. Is that it? Yeah, that's it. Let us consider only the laws on public financial matters. I don't completely agree with interpretations, e.g. In terms of the present situation, the government would have had to advance this document in order to submit the financial programme before April 1. Take it, for example. depending on how financial policy is discussed in Article 4. The law. It says: The government will follow the development of a financial policy proposed by the secretary of the Council in the form of a proposal. - Will it be after it's created a financial policy? It may not be the thought, according to the words, that the minister should come to the ready and throw it into the council. A new government is to be molded, and of course it will take place sometime. So they say: ▪ As soon as possible, but no longer, but at the same time, the next bill's contribution to the budget. There is a way out of the law that if governments change at a time that is abnormal, there is a refuge in this law regarding how the government can pray until the next budget is made. True, this means that a financial agenda will appear without supporting financial policy, but I read it so that under special circumstances it can happen - perhaps more is being thought of as being a government change in the spring, but in the end it is so that under these circumstances men should take time and take some time to do so. Then comes the seventh article, which, of course, is a key article in this, i.e. The conditions of financial policy and financial programmes. That condition meant that in the left green too stiff, the space to use the financial resources was too tight during times of hardship and downturn. By limiting time within the age of five so that there must be leftovers or equations, it means that if they want to use the terms of the government to stimulate the economy and to soften tragedy, they will have only two, three years to go beyond the line, having to make up for the rest of the money in order to level it in five years. You must never go to more than 2.5% angle. How would financial order have been enough after a crash? Of course, she would have been thrown aside, and we know it. But when the state goes into a rift of 14% of the gross domestic product in 2008 and less than 10% 2009, the counsel was to let that tilt run its course, at least for now, for the time of a collapse of the economy. Of course, we did not go along with it, Icelanders, and in the middle of 2009 we took up the budget, which is another story. Then there is another reference there to the five years and to 2.5% of national production, which is the ratio ratio of 30% of gross domestic product. That's enough, isn't it? But what's going on here? To implement an additional rule that we should be bound by the next five years, i.e. that the national spending will never exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product, that is, the public expenses? In other words, there is a third requirement. It's a total government fee. According to this, they must never exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product. It simply means that even actions that would fit within the financial conditions in the law can be impossible because of this threshold. Expenditures are about 41% at the moment. There's a 0.5% space to use the state's budget. Let's just take it in 2019. Mr. President, I'm saying that I'm not going to be a prophet, but suppose that the imbalance in economy will continue to accumulate, the real success becomes stronger than the illness, and it will end up with a massive impact in 2018, where the land production will suddenly cease to increase if the state's income falls, as in such circumstances as unemployment increases, expenses increase because of the increase in cost of living, and where the cost of production is more expensive because the expectations of economic growth and pay raise will not go on. I know how this can happen. In a moment, the situation will be totally reversed; income will fall, expenses will increase, reducing or being replaced. The gross domestic product is then unchanged or even diminished. So the current expenditure could with a slight contraction of land production would mean that we were shrimping on the roof, 41.5%. Then we could not even run a government fund with a 2.5% angle the following year to soften the shock because we had reached the other roof. If that works now after we reach or down to 30% of our debt points in 2019 we have no problem with this. Then the State's debt would be a good thing if we were to let it happen to us to use the terms of the money to soften the mood. But the other fences would shut us off. It's completely absurd. This is in my opinion the biggest case here because, although the plan is ruined otherwise, and in no way meets the expectations of the structure of the infrastructure and the procreation of the welfare system, the other is so unfathomable, trying to nail down five years in advance with extra fences, that I don't understand what is going on in man. This is inconsistencies with the fact that we were trying to establish these important laws on public finances in a solidarity here. Sadly, because then governments did not compare with us who wanted to have more space. There were no dramatic changes in the financial rule we were asking for. We would like to have a period of seven years, not five years, and a little more space. The roof of debt, yes, but we would have felt relatively small but only mild - tempered changes to reduce it. I say that in my own way, I was willing to do my part in trying to make peace. This disagreement lay ahead, unfortunately, but he was not important in himself. He was about not having it too low, and having a little more of a freeness of choice inside it. What, then, will the present government do when it comes in? She'll move it away. It enhances the gap between those who are more guided by the Italian viewpoints as they approach these and those of the Dogmatic rights that are clearly in charge here. This is totally going the wrong way. Instead of trying to reduce it, we're adding up our differences to the problem. I think it would be an immediate improvement in my opinion to throw out this fourth party of the proposal for debt. It would be a contribution to reconciliation on the side of the governments. Well, I understand that there's a better suggestion now, but I haven't heard them talk that they had a lot on their pants to make any sense. Finally, I agree that it is by far the most obvious thing that this case will remain open until we have seen the first GDP, and then we can look into it only in context, since there is no time for courtyards in that subject. And there's nothing that says or calls it's necessarily to finish this case and to vote for it before the other comes out, because it's quite clear that it's coming and it doesn't change from this. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think we should let this stand open, and if so, Mr. President, the discussion hasn't ended. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u93	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the talk and noticed that he pointed out that there had not been a contract between the former government and those who wanted to be more careful. I hope so. A senator has noticed that now there is a wolf - slow government in the country and that there was no right control over the peoples ahead, but people who were willing to listen to these views. I'd like to discuss the point that the senator made to his main subject, i.e. to add this roof, 41.5%, to which financial counsel is actually critical and does not seem to have been accepted, at least we have not heard it in the chamber. I agree with the senator that there is a shortage of people from the management team to participate, at least to listen, and enter the discussion. If this roof is breached, does the senator expect the government to be saying, "It doesn't matter, then we just dump this course because there was an emergency and we're changing? [[The president calls.]] Then comes the question: Why do the senator, because I have no senators to ask, that men would take such a narrow sting as they would have to be thrown away if an emergency struck by a crown and the growth of inflation occurs? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u94	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect the scheduled part of the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u95	Mr. President. Yes, I can totally agree with the definition that now there is a right-righter control than before there were right-center management, so in certain proportions. True, we felt very weak in our last term, but let us be reasonable and say that they were there. But now it's a right-right thing. Why do people put this roof in addition to the other financial conditions that were controversial and thought very rigid, indeed, if I know just one of the most rigid of the building blocks? That's a very good question. Isn't that enough for the rest? Where did the idea come from? Is it from the current financial and economic minister or elsewhere? I think it's the novelistic, hard-to-right powers that they want this roof there because they can take advantage of it for a number of reasons, e.g. by always having difficulties with surgery but not with income support, e.g. by saying, "If we're going to do more, we're going to have to sell property against it, etc. They're setting the groundwork and clearing the way for a hard, fresh, free-right course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u96	A respectable president. I think I can agree with these views, and this must be why people are so limited. It is true that when we put these financial rules in, we progressive people were concerned that they were too rigid, that they were not too flexible, but that we would like to obtain a measure of discipline and handle the terms of the government at the same time as here, that as we were concerned, we would predict economic growth, and we would be entering economic flowers. On the other hand, we are at the top of the pace. It is, of course, very strange for a person to make such strict rules. That, of course, is a question, as easily as ever. A senator goes forward, and I can totally agree, whether it is in order to build a framework that humans cannot figure out, and therefore they have to use a novelistic method, to adapt the state's budget to the economic situation at the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u97	Mr. President. I can honestly admit that I've had a bit of trouble in this case. I was responsible for starting this job, for laying the foundation for my work in making laws on public finances. I am burned from experience like others, and I am very aware of the importance of having discipline and responsibility in these matters. It makes me feel better to have a rigid law on public finances, especially when right men are in control, because they have always screwed up. I am sick of having to come back and clean up after them from time to time. I've done it twice already, let's hope it's not all there already are three. I'm a little bored. What I think is particularly serious about this rule, and this added up is what the review window is down to 9. Well, if I remember correctly. It takes almost a disaster. It takes almost a collapse to allow humans to, if they choose, come in and revise. [[The president calls.]] In other words, those who refuse to do so may hide behind the fact that things are not so serious that they need to head up. [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u98	A respectable president. There's a lot of things I wanna come in here. It's a valid financial policy. The current financial agenda that might now be in harmony with it - I understand, of course, that the new government wants to establish its financial policy so that her new financial strategy would apply its own financial policy. Now the work process is just a little new, we're still learning it, we're actually learning what tradition is between the lines we come up with here. I gave a report on how I felt and how I was reading the official financial law, i.e. How to behave. At the latest, economic policy is to be presented along the budget, and it really doesn't have to be approved until the first financial programme is adopted. It goes down from the election to the spring until the next spring when the first financial policy of a new government must be adopted on a regular annual trip. When it comes to this amount of time, we are also giving an opportunity to give a tremendous deal of discussion about this subject. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator and a former minister who worked on this matter agrees with me in this analysis of how we should approach the financial agenda now and in our discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u99	Mr. President. It's a little tailored to a Swedish Norwegian role model. It should not be that there, for example, is found to be quite different in political tradition and practices. ... inthebeautifullandof Sweden. There's a census-politic, cohesion politics, much more interesting than here. It's not a coincidence these plans exist for the age of five, but not for the four, not just for the ideal period. If we thought that there was quite good peace with financial policies and even the financial agenda - so there could be a solution to individual developments - these problems would not be government. But this legal course now, I was thinking about it before, is so broken down that there is really no time of the year that is proper for changing governments because it always lands in a process, so it's in trouble. It really is. It's not good to do that at New Year's. Of course, it is not good to do so in the springtime. And it's not good to do that. It's good to do it in the fall. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying that the current government should remain forever, that's not so, but this is a subject of thought. [[The president calls.]] So the point is, the much greater the solidarity the problem would be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u100	A respectable president. Let's just change our gear, talk about this roof set, 41.5%. It's just a little hard to follow that roof when you realize that GDP is being followed by this year's GDP. It's not light until the end of the year, and you don't really know it until after if we were under 41.5% or not. It's going to be a little awkward six months later: Yes, land production, it was a little lower than we expected, so we crossed the roof. Whoops, what are we going to do now? Perhaps that is why financial advice makes comments on this matter, and having that goal is not part of the civil law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u101	Mr. President. It is also a problem with this roof that it involves total balance between state and rural society, total activities. And I've been pointing out that we were, of course, on a much more comparable basis with these things if we used original equations and particularly the economy-corrected elements, so we were just trying to look at the state's business today and what it takes to, what does the state need to do, what does the state need to do in order to be decently able to do? In other words, the only light in this use of total balance is the interest cost that is involved today, in which 41% we are driving this thing today. Of course, there is considerable interest costs in the balance of both the state and the community or the expenses. But the weakness is that humans are betting on the economy. If it goes up, then all the space is suddenly gone and it's in the middle of nowhere. [[The president calls.]] So it's all too close for my taste and it's been a while. During the past four years, there has been ironlike ironing. [[The president calls.]] It's just not enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u102	President. I appreciate this speech. This is interesting to study this roof, which is 41.5%, and put it in line with the economic forecasting that the rise in GDP per year will be reduced in the following years after a slight fluctuation in the year, and this is also expected to require that the change will go further as the period goes on. It makes me want to think about it with a sense of urgency. A member of the council how the two events that may go a little together will have the opportunity to have the total amount of the government in close proximity to this roof. It seems to me that this roof can really be lower when you squeeze it, not because it's there, but because there's so much leftover charge. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u103	Mr. President. It is now assumed that the remainder requirement, if we call it, will return to a slight decline at the end of this five - year period if I recall correctly. I heard the highest. The minister's talking about it in the days, is it not just here on the front page of the magazine that we see the overall outcome to be 2.5% in 2020? True, she should be on her way up quite continuously until then, but afterward she relaxes a little. Then there is much appeal that debt should be reduced, and then there would be a decrease in the cost of growth, economic growth, and less interest costs. But there are all birds in the forest. Why shut down, as I put it in my previous speech, why put on foot irons and lock itself in a cell for the next five years and throw away the key so ahead? It has never been good to try to nail yourself that way in advance. It is almost the same as the tax declines, which are registered far into the future, as men did in 2003 -2007 and did in part during the last term. This is usually the most unwise thing to do, for example. that the tax and government matters in general are one of the most basic tools we have to work with or against a fluke. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u104	Mr. President. That's right, it's getting smaller, it's fine. Yet, this worries me because we now know that nothing is ever going to work out. In the case of the remainder of the debt, we are talking about the potential reduction of 20 billion per year if it works well. Let us say that it goes to 30 billion, what will it bring to us in real numbers the 70 billion we pay today? This may go down to 69 billion, 68, perhaps down to 67 during a successful period. Now I don't expect to sell banks. I can't see that this is working because the growth rate that will never be enough to match the change that will be due to a reduction in GDP. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u105	Mr. President. I can do anything for myself. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. It is almost as if they think that they can suddenly work into accurate calculations with two larger strengths, thus creating a little bit of space. Not necessarily that's going to work, I'm afraid. So let's not forget that although we're talking about some 20, 30 billion-dollar debt that still counts the value, it's still a considerable amount to pay interest, 1,000 billion plus/minus or whatever it is. What is the most dramatic is the growth stage itself. Who is confident that he will predict the future? There is only a 30, 50 point increase, and all this benefit is dependent on the fact that the debt's name, despite all that much throughout the schedule. As we know, it has not been very successful to reduce growth in Iceland, and it may not be going so well in the future. It's a huge projection into the air, and it's up to the ceiling as far as it goes, and it's going to be the actual interest charge of the state in the years to come. It depends primarily on the interest level. [[The president calls.]] If we were here with Japanese interest, it wouldn't be much of a deal to keep these debts, and it would cost about nothing, so Japan lives with her 250 percent debt of GDP. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and agree with him when he criticizes financial regulations on public financial matters. In the United States, we voted against them, explaining that we would change these rules or take the rules out of the law as soon as we could get in a position to do so. It was discussed in a budgetary committee before a public financial bill was replaced with a budget covering, adding it to Article 7. Fortunately, it was not done and there was no more to it. Maybe because the government that was then not a wolf-right government, but as soon as it does come, the ceiling is set. I want to ask you why. A senator would be more wise to believe that each government would establish its financial rules, thus affecting the economy itself, rather than nail the financial order into the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. Interestingly, why not? A senator reviews, and rightly, that it occurred as if something should be added to that roof. It was the result of not doing so when the law was taken care of. In fact, it is strange for the present government to add it to its policy. We really need explanations and reasons for that. When have some government officials come up here and argued properly? I haven't heard that. Let's just ask them to come and do it. Can't be called at the highest. Mr. President, is there a financial and economic minister who will ask him to come and explain this to us? I think it's fine if he's only available for the discussion before people's speech rights go out. It would be one fine way, one possible way, that it would simply be in the place of the government each time in the beginning of a chosen period to set its guidelines. I would be quite willing to look at one general rule that would be legal, and there is some sense of debt and that governments would specifically have to account if they were to go up to it, increase the debt of the state, because they do not disappear after that, as it is known. [[The president calls.]] They need to be paid. [[The president calls.]] But allowing more space to be used in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u108	Mr. President. If I remember correctly, I answered the highest. The financial and economic minister countering this budget, who believed that it would make no difference that way because it would be economic growth over the next few years and it would be wide enough to allow space. But, of course, the roof will bite when the pressure blows. As noted, policies should not be altered for the next five years unless something terrible happens. It is not only that there is inflexibility and the rules are inflexible and improved; it is also referred to as a policy in which income and expenditure should be made in harmony with the economy, and the automatic equilibrium has already been taken off completely. It's not only the rules, it's also with this. I want to ask you why. A senator into this, if he doesn't think it's a huge flaw that the automatic fluctuation is decompressed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u109	Mr. President. I think it is, and I believe that space is too tight to be used in a reasonable way to the use of financial resources, public finance in a reasonable way. Of course, it's the world you'd like to get into. Of course, it is good to have a small debt, both in countries and in rural areas. If so, public finances can be used to ease tragedy. I can tell people here what sucks. It is a government minister of finance who cannot afford to employ stimulating and soothing measures, except to a very small degree. That's what Iceland was like in 2009. That was one of four countries, e.g. OECD said that the situation was so difficult that the land could not afford a stimulus. Other countries could, they'd be better off. But our debts would be becoming so extreme in Iceland, and the situation is so difficult that it would be undefeated to go to costly stimulating measures, e.g. performs and so on, to soften the shock. Of course, we did. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's any reason for anyone to have a good shoulder bond, but if there's any reason, I'd like a belt. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I suggest we call him and let him try to sell it to us better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u110	Mr. President. It is not easy to get involved in these discussions, they are on a high and good level, but not in all of my expertise. I'd rather just stand here and talk about the wood of a firehouse or the odds of a volcanic eruption. I'm not going to be predicting any of the natural disasters that may have a reason for this fine document that is being discussed and that is extremely important, but of course, I'm taking my blood to duty, and I'm going to do the best I can. This body of Congress proposal for financialism has been criticized in many ways, e.g. Because of possible privatization of key systems in the community I'm convinced that the greater part of the nation doesn't want. It has also been criticized for tax policy based on the protection of big stocks and capital owners on the upper side and the upper category rich. I would like to explain that in the ten categories of the Habitat economy over income, people in the top three income categories are taking over about half of what they earn. When it comes to people who take money, 1% of them take 44% of them, they're up to 95 billion. It is so obvious that public financialism that it does not take into account is not very much for the people. I'm going to stay on the ideological notes and discuss one of the four terms I spent my previous speech yesterday in order to discuss and stop this concept of sustainableity once more, because it's both abused and misunderstood and even misreaded. I'm going to take into account the presentation of a core policy in the Congress resolution. It says that public finances need to be sustainable. I told yesterday that this term was in my opinion for ornaments, because it's not defined anywhere more closely than what people mean. I don't recall any member of the Board of Directors, much less a minister, not just mentioning this word self-sustaining in some speech. In reality, I consider it a new senator not to see any more ministers, even any minister, discussing this foundation of the government, whether it's the highest. Environment Minister or secretary of finance, as it has been, or the highest. Secretary of transportation. In fact, it's not very justified that they don't, and they're not in the room, except in the swamp movie a small part of the day, unless, yes, I want to take my hat above the top. Secretary of finance last night. He did a good job. I ask: Selfishness in public finances, what does that mean? There is more than one definition of the word, or concept of sustainableity, much less sustainable in financial matters, and much less sustainable in public finance. All that matters in different ideologies, we sometimes forget that. I called it yesterday that it was a document about political economics. That's where ideologies come in. These are not objective sciences, such as geology, which I mentioned earlier, but political and mental ideological policies, can put it that way. It's all right if you compare company with society. Some people sometimes say, " It's easy to run Iceland, it's just like running a big business. ' It may say something about those who say it, but a company is usually run, so you look primarily at the interests of the company. I'm not minimizing good human resources management or anyone touched by community responsibility, but usually the company is the living bread of the owners, and they take the company number one, two and three. The society that is a huge unity embraces the entire life of people in the community. It's been eight years since the collapse. A large part of the life of many Icelanders has suffered by massively designed infrastructures and massive welfare systems. Many people are getting very tired, and too many are angry. It's quite different to look in the front of society, that big living unit that hugs everyone, and then compare it with a big international company that could probably have as many employees as the Icelandic people. We'll discuss political economics. I think the board's falling on the test. So, what's the test? someone asks. It is simply that the well - being and life - condition of the masses of the community must be taken into account. The government is to use all its power to keep them on living conditions and their well - being in order to improve in the way outside conditions allow. Only then are we talking about sustainable public finances. The key to public financial improvement is to use tax systems, but not to rely on economic change, not on something we could call an excel document in an enterprise without much social responsibility. This document writes about unchanged or unchangeable a five-year roof on the official annual total cost, not exceeding 41.5% of gross domestic product. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke it over earlier, but I haven't heard anyone, not so I'll remember, talking about exactly the evidence for this number. Is she a good one? It's just the average of a few years, isn't it? I even remember that was the explanation I heard from someone's mouth. Minister why this number is there. If we're running society in the middle of previous years, I think we're on the wrong track. Mr. President. Of course, the terms of the money are for safekeeping, but for what sake? I'm telling you, I'm telling you. You can't think that it can benefit everyone, even though I used that word here, I'm speaking like any other member of the council because social groups don't sit all around the table with the same status. A few groups sit at the top and the rest of us below. This fact must be taken into account by the government, and to look for the rightness of this discrimination, to bring forth an equation without a loss of normal freedom. Then there'd be some kind of self-sustaining in all of it. Sustainable public finance should lead to self-sustaining society. It is a process that takes years or decades. If we look at three basics of sustainable development in Icelandic society, resource use or land use and use, we look to society and we look to financial resources, then some of the resources are about to be self-sustained and non-sustained, e.g. Not the travel service at all. We need to keep going because we don't want to have economic growth in Iceland based on overuses. If we look to society itself that is supposed to be organic and prosperous, it is certainly in some places, but not everywhere. There are many references to a standard of poverty and the problems of many social people to make ends meet. In financial matters, we lack social solutions that benefit the masses. We can't afford this kind of economy for five years, not even for a year or two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u111	A respectable president. I wonder why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson: What is your opinion that the basis for the bill is going on that Iceland's economy is as stable as a dominant and local wind belt around the Equatorial Circle when reality is closer to Icelandic weather?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u112	Mr. President. I don't quite understand this meteorological question. All political groups and governments speak of sustainable society under the conditions in which they are here, regardless of geographic or weatherly. It is quite clear that if that thought does not spread into all types, whether it is public finance, rural governments, our community itself, all our types, because it is, as it has been often chewed here, the key to the whole future, of course, is misbehaving. I don't know the formula, but I know that the basic issues I mentioned in sustainableity, i.e. Environmental or natural sustainable, social sustainable and economic sustainability, all must enter every major decision, whether it is taken by the Council or by the government, it has been mentioned before. I can't imagine if I've answered the question. A senator is clear enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u113	I might have to explain my question. What I meant is that the winds around the halo, or other, of the customers or of the tatde winds, are extremely stable in one direction. As a result, the sea could be passed either direction, back and forth, and thus a steady wind. The Icelandic economy has not been known for its stability, so I was like that in Icelandic weather. I don't know how. The senator should answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u114	Mr. President. I think I know what. A senator is partly a sailor, therefore these winds are very dear to him. The economy is really dependent on the others and those whims. It is difficult to maintain a stable economy because of the land's land's state, because there are fish epidemics and unlike a year's round of hydropower activations and all alone. This in itself means that it is our problem to deal with it with sustainability in mind and all that is causing it. This is different for communities living in extreme weather, stable resource resources, etc. It's been following the Icelanders for a thousand years, we haven't really enjoyed this, but now we have technology and technology and hopefully ideologies to do it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk, especially because I faced myself with the issue. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon before actually talking about the fourth product of the economy of the decline in GDP. After that, I began to think, " Why are we talking about this so extreme? ' Why are we not talking about the fundamental philosophy? This is a policy, a financial policy, not a plan, not an absolute approach, but a philosophical approach on how to manage society. The economic sustainability is just one of the things we should be talking about and can relate it to a variety of philosophical policies, such as... cohesion 1830, we might be asking ourselves about the lack of a system that we've basically assumed since the industrial revolution, not enough to allow everyone to be involved so that, of course, some may be overwhelmed by others. A senator talked about it. I'd like to ask a little bit about how these ideas for maximizing GDP that the State's proportional spending can fit into an environment where self-efficiency is growing, where our demand for clean environments is growing, as growth of the economy is increasingly linked to the human progress, technological progress and progress in all fields of science that we see every day. The forward nature of capitalism that some have been talking about has never given us anything but taxes and money rings and has not cared for these matters very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u116	Mr. President. It's become a very ideological debate, not my strong sod maybe when it comes to economics, but in this economy, there's never again been a way to escape it. Economic sustainability will not be impaired if humans cannot control the response and economy in these fluctuations. Then we're just slaves to the vibrators. and it seems to me that what has happened with this financial policy is exactly what has happened. As for this 41.5% roof, I have no idea how it was decided. I just know that it's not a good idea to tie it up until the age of five. So I can't answer this inquiry or talk at any point. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr different from this consideration of economic sustainability, conscious responses to the fluctuations, and some extent with a proportion of GDP found by some means other than building up several averages and sharings.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u117	Mr. President. As I reflect on the next five months, I picture an enormous increase in self - efficiency in electric cars and automobile fleets, a greater self - efficiency in various factories, an increase in self - efficiency in all kinds of manufacturing processes that we may find difficult to imagine today. Then I'm talking about the next five months. The next five years are virtually impossible in this context. When I think about what Iceland's economy will be like in five years, I'm having such a bad feeling that we're talking about tying down certain philosophies that have proved to be gone for a long time and I'm sure that when we see artificial intelligence every time we see it, it won't last. How does this sustainable world fit within the range we are talking about, the fast - moving technologicalization taking place?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u118	Mr. President. This sustainable development must take into consideration and adapt to this rapid development of technology. We always have these three basics, the crops, the resources, how they fall into it, the community road, how it is, or how it becomes, and then the economic factor. You can't tell in 30 seconds how this rhymes together. But there are at least the points we need to watch. I agree that it is highly precarious to look for five years of subjugation when taken care of, for example. that there was a significant collapse of tourism for some of the reasons that banks have been looking at would call for a very traumatic event that could not be dealt with because it was not a natural disaster. Although this was not a devastating blow, after eight years of such an operation, we would already be looking forward to surgery. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u119	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. When we were winning the government Act on Public Financial Affairs, we talked a lot about the sustainable concept. We in the smaller section wanted it to be defined in the law itself, but the result was that the definition was expressed in the majority opinion. I think it's important to keep it in place and that it won't forget because the majority opinion is an explanation and we don't allow it to be any other definition of sustainability when talking about this concept. It says in the largest part, that the majority of them draw attention to the sustainable development of achieving a balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. It is stated that the interests of future generations are in place. When talking about sustainable state funds, all aspects of sustainableness should be included in that term. The policy we are talking about is so dreary, and it would have been necessary to draw more attention to the emphasis. In his talk, a candidate discussed the matter. Unfortunately, we do not know exactly whether this definition of sustainableity, e.g. in terms of the ratios. It seems to me that this is not the case when you look at the straitjackets in which financial rules put everything together. [[The president calls.]] I want to pray. A senator to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u120	Mr. President. I appreciate this inquiry. It's a good example if a group of senators has talked about sustainableity and if it's been done on a budget I didn't sit on, I'm celebrating it very much and the definition of the committee that I haven't read, unfortunately, so I can't speak up about it. I miss the fact that this term has not been presented in the discussions, except for today, and what it means in financial matters. Perhaps it has been better for a financial body to negotiate a policy than for the current government, that may be. I think the closer we get to agree on what sustainability means in financial matters, the better. It is so easy to download sustainableity when it comes to natural abuse, to return nature or resources as good or as better for the next generation. The simple definition is far more complex when it comes to financial matters. What exactly do we mean? I suppose I'll get another word from what? A senator asks her back: "How does it make sense?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u121	Mr. President. We felt that it was so important when we were setting up committees and putting aside laws on public financial matters from the committee that there was some common understanding of what this meant. There's a lot of politics in that it's not just some economic sustainability but it has to do with the environment and society as well. That's basic. That's why I think it's important that the committee's opinion was placed in part as a legal solution. There is also another issue that we discussed that was economic stability and social stability and that not all were obtained through economic stability, it would not exist if the social stability did not exist. There's a lot of politics in it, too. To maintain this, we need to maintain that understanding and definition. That's what I'm talking about. A senator won't agree with me in that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u122	Mr. President. Hv. Senator, you're absolutely right. When you discuss sustainability, that's how sustainability is, i.e. like my hands now, this has something to do with each other and there's really no one to talk about the one foundation of sustainability without thinking about the other two or three, too. What a joy it is if there were members of all classes there, that there has come some understanding of the council for exactly this point! Of course, there has been an aggressor in all of this discussion that has been torn apart and did not understand that social stability is as important in sustainable development as, let's say, good treatment of environment and nature or economic vision or stability or financial caution. It's all gonna be playing together. It is not until it does what we have to succeed in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u123	A respectable president. I'm going to be the same as the one who used the talk in front of me, OK? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, concerning the subject of my case. I'm better at a lot of other matters than economics. This does not change my ability to discuss these excellent financial policies from other viewpoints. A TV program during the last weekend revealed that the flight of the Independence Party in surveys is due to the anti-continent parties, since they identified the fine works of the Independence Party rather than those of the collaborators. Those are big words. I'm going to try to get some of this together with the Independence Party by linking him and his past with the privatization of banks to the financial policy discussed here. For the work, I intend to use the 2009 Independence Committee Report, Affliction and Lesson entitled One Chapter. In fact, this fine report did not impress the godfather of the party and the chairman for many years at the international meeting of the party, as it has become famous. Before I look at the report, though, I would like to have a few direct comments about this financial agenda. This is a set box that will fit into the next few years. Change distance is little or nothing. For the next year, the General Assembly is restricted. This reminds me a little of the time when the hospital authorities have to save and close certain departments. Can I imagine the mental ward of the north of Akureyri? It is so narrow that this department has to be closed temporarily, or it needed at least one time here, now I don't know exactly what it's been in the past few years. And I know it's a lot of these. Those who get seriously ill and need help not get under medical care, are not helped because they are restricted. There is, after which I come, a charge house. In the future, the General will have to subject himself to a fixed bend that may not be compatible with the future. That is why it is so difficult to predict, especially the future. I'm pretty sure that when the government parties are charged with the future campaign bidders, they'll be hiding behind the charge roof. Let us examine only the opinion of a financial body of 9 February of this year. It says about this fee, with the permission of a president: Both income and expenses are expected to grow at the rate of domestic product production and to maintain somewhat over the expected economic growth in the coming years. As mentioned above, this involves the uninterrupting of automotive regulators, one of which is a sign of relaxation. The IV budget of financial policy establishes that expenses will not exceed 41.5% of GDP over the period, but it is estimated to be about 41% in 2017. The objective is to limit emissions to the share of economic change and public activity. It is important to note that the report on Article 6. The Act on Baseline Stability indicates that public annual spending is always aimed, except for past interest costs, not on the real value of over the long term growth of domestic product. This needs further discussion, for in general the scope of the public is a political subject. As discussed above, it is clear that domestic demand is growing in excess of economic growth, and this needs to be addressed with increased support. However, a detailed review of the development of the budget and specific measures made by the government is not included in the financial policy or its report, although the multiplicity of the increased spending is still dependent on the issues spent on the target. In order to identify the impact of increased market spending, it is not enough to cover only the scope of the budget, but also the combination. At the same time, the way we earn money is important. The composition and interaction of taxes can affect economic demand and create different incentives. The presentation of this policy and specific action on the tax issues would likewise improve transparency and would increase policy stability and give evidence of maintenance. The financial policy is based on a more economic efficiency than the uncertainty of economic forecasts. Simple calculations show that the result is very sensitive to changes in economic progress. Small variations from the forecast can lead to an overall improvement, without further action, being close to zero and even negative. In this context, it should be noted that uncertainty increases as the period progresses. Similarly, as with the target of recovery, if economic growth becomes lower than predicted, it may be difficult to achieve a target of expenses without increasing maintenance. And here comes the raisin in the hot dog tip. I'll continue my quote, with permission from the President. In harmony with this, if the situation turns out to be different from the economic forecast, the government may be in a straitjacketing of its economic policy. In view of this, it may be preferable to use the extraction targets for space instead of floor-based dot food, taking into account the economic rhythm correction in public financial policies. An eco-efficiency correction could reduce the risk that economic forecasts do not work. Similarly, a flexible spending goal can be recommended. Inflexibleness can be a barrier. So many were words. ▪ Inflexibleness can be a barrier. I'm going to read one more paragraph, with permission from the president. The Council of Justice also considers it important that governments be able to identify the economy and even prepare specific risk assessments or scenarios to further increase policy transparency and prepare response. The chances that economic forecasts will go on in all respects are low. Both because there is always uncertainty about economic developments as well as how government finance, income and expenses will develop under different economic developments. There is little evidence that the public's plea for large structure is answered, and this is unfortunate. Next, I'd like to read some of the information about this financial policy that we are discussing here. ▪ The existing financial policy is essentially based on ASI's opinion, to increase the share of the state's business budget by using sectoral assets and resources for a faster payment rate than previously planned. By doing so, the Kingdom's interest rates and the result will be improved. However, behind that schedule there is a vague policy regarding the sale of state property and the level of uncertainty about the value of the assets. In recent years, government institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of financial matters and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. There is no plan thus to make better use of a position as the underpriestial interest fees for the state's budget create for greater general well - being. In the current year, specific system changes lead to a reduced income of $8 billion, which is added to the stimulus of action that has been attacked on the income side of the budget in recent years and can be considered. (b) What are some factors that can be considered in the following article? As a result, government income institutions will not be sufficient to finance needed expenses for the welfare and infrastructure in spite of the uplift. The maintenance of policy is based on the use of the welfare system as the main economic control device, by means of unfunded well-being benefits and infrastructure, as well as the weakness of child- and growth reform systems. It is anticipated that in the event of a reduction of activity, a cut-off will be observed in public management and/or tax increase, across the economic rhythms. It shows that in part what I have said many times, the state has given up some of its income opportunities and will face difficulties in financing the great reforms and projects that the nation and the businesses of the country call for. Now banks are being sold across lakes in connection with this financial policy and the question is, Do the public place their trust in this government, the Independence category, the work, and other activities at all? Then I came to the excellent report which I proclaimed before. This will be discussed with the president's permission, the privatization of the banks. Especially today. It is said that the banks owned by the State were the right thing to do in 2002. This resulted in the release of a force necessary for the business to exist. Political spending should end, and the effectiveness of the market is up to date. In fact, that process began in 1990 when the Road Bank was combined with smaller banking institutions and became Iceland's Bank and ended when the Lands Bank was fully private. However, the privatization of these two banks is highly critical. The process was omnipresent and a more favorable offer for the state's funds at all standard standards was avoided. A respectable president. I'll recess a direct quote from the report. I'm not reading the report delivered yesterday. I'm reading a great piece of paper from 2009, where the Independence Party had an umbilical examination. Never would I have wondered if I would read this piece of paper in the Allellium, but then the tree of the cross will fail as other trees. I'll continue my case. The first methodology, such as the widespread possession, was not followed. The banks landed, to some extent, by political lines, in the hands of individuals with limited banking experience (Internationalally). The government told the public that if this was the case, the banks would have been sold at a higher price. (For fully formatted text, see publication) Mr. President. Now, again, I pause my direct quote from the report and recall a few words. paritaprevir This morning when Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson entered the highest. The secretary of finance after making up the forward section of this failed personal development if it had not been time to settle the independence. He answered that in nothing. I'll continue my quote, with permission from the President. In addition to the safe implementation of law and regulations, the management of savings is always fragile and must be subject to strict moral laws. Many of the original methodology for the privatization of the two bank banks was appropriate, e.g., to assume a very widespread possession. All of this should be taken into consideration when it comes to re-entering the bank. That process takes into account the obvious mistakes made in the privatization process the first. That's an interesting word. Not least as I said before in view of yesterday's reputation. There are other benefits that are presented in this report. I don't think I've lived as positively toward the Independence Party as I am now in this place. You see, it's about the surveillance agencies. This morning I'm afraid to say that I've had a hard time at the F.A.P., and yesterday too, saying that it may not have stood its own place. Here, these excellent members of the Independence Party Committee make up the publicity of the National Organization that was once here and was laid down without any intervention. In fact, if I remember correctly, there has been a proposal for its restoration. By permission of the president, we say: ▪ This has not been clearly defined in an adequate way as to why the national economy was laid down in its time. The Agency had played an important role in the economic regime for decades by providing professional information to the government. An important factor in the activities of the National Institute of Economic Organization was an independent assessment of the development of the economy and its individual aspects. In addition, the Agency was a source of advisers and reviews for its members, the General Assembly, stakeholders, and others. No doubt it can be concluded that the development of economic economic developments in the past few years would have benefited greatly from the independent and professional reviews and assessments of the National Economic Institute. Bank analysis institutions thought that the public and companies were one - sided analyses and assessments of the Icelandic economy, but they desperately needed a professional and critical discussion of the economic situation, status and outlook. A respectable president. Here's an interesting question: ◯ It has not been clearly defined in a reasonable way as to why the national economy was laid down in its time. I can answer that question just here and now in this public address. Then, Prime Minister Davíð Oddsson came into conflict with that institution, or perhaps vice versa, because the counsel and analysis it published, thinking that the common people and politicians too - and the independent people - were not interested in him. And in an emotional situation, national interests were suddenly brought down. I hope we have the good fortune to restore it. A respectable president. I haven't finished my review of this report of the Independence Committee. It is a question of whether I will do so in my second speech later today. So now the government of Independence Party, Correction, and Bright Future is heading for the start of a bank sale. That's what worries me. The track's starting to scare. I'm not sure that the Independence Party learned from past mistakes. If independent men have followed the counsel of Davíð, the son of Oddsson, they have cast this report or put it in the fireplace, for he was sorry for all the paper that had gone into it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. In many ways, I like that we are here two historians discussing these matters. I have often wondered if there was no country or country for good if there was a sort of plot that would cross the past's mistakes so that it could be avoided, since history seems to be inclined to turn around. Like what? A senator came in handy, and now we are faced with another lap when it comes to the privatization. I have to admit that I didn't have an idea flight to look into the Independence Party improvement report and thank you. A senator is very much fond of her reading. But now we look at this financial policy, this greatest and most important document of every government, as has been said here by government leaders, although they do not see its place in the discussion and interest in it, with a spending roof, with a vague policy on the sale of state estates, uncertain of their value as stated in ASI's review as well. A senator quoted. On the way to another privatization process where it seems to be rely that in this uncertainty situation, everything will be saved somehow. It seems that it is the only novelty, or all one depends on when it comes to earning money for the State. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's details. We've only made it to the privateization of the banks this morning, the first we were discussing in a report. Does he believe that this is responsible financial management, which the present government prefers to calm down on this five - year journey, based on this vast uncertainty? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u125	Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the son of Otttar, Proppér, would like to begin by saying these words about the historians. It is now that in this tremendous expansion of the economy, which was about 10 to 15 years ago, people in general were drawn to opinions that were supposed to indicate the future. Watching, it was called. But prospects are just another word for the future. These good men, as learned as they were, were as honest and upright, and upright, and upright, as they were; and as women, they had no gift of prophesying. They had more than no degrees in economics and business studies, good degrees, excellent degrees, I have no doubt. More often, however, they felt that they were not able to explain what the future would be like, how the other would develop, and so on. Historians were never asked. Historians, of course, are a little busy in the past, I know that, and I've noticed why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is in the same area as I am. Of course, we must think about the past and learn from the past in order to plan the future. That's where I come to the answer that I think the senator knows will be negative. We must be careful to calm down on this vague aim in the future turbulent seas of plaguing. That's for damn sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The only historian possibly listened to something, even though it may not have been until very soon after the event, had such progress for his discussion that he is now the president of Iceland. This may be a lesson to learn from what historians can do when they get involved. But I share my concerns with each other. A senator says we're repeating mistakes, making another ring. I took note of the fact that the report on the privatization of the Save Bank was being read here, a beautiful expression of the trust shown by the Icelandic economy, as it were, streaming into the bank's foreign capital. For a little while, I thought I was reading out of a recent interview with Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Prime Minister, of the trust shown in the modern economy, that foreign hedge funds had purchased a share at Arion Bank. Those were almost the same words. Somehow, we're going in circles, so I share these concerns. Hv. A senator I know is honorable, both from my work here and at the conference hall. The Environment Committee, I've been in the campaign with men who had more economic policies than I did. Does he remember from the Northeast election campaign that there was talk of spending money there? Does he remember that it referred to the fact that all infrastructure was to remain in the economy? Does he remember that it was actually said that there would be only a lot of building up here if it was possible for private property to be taken care of? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. The time of the historians may have come. Sometime there was a well - known political woman who said, "My time will come. " The time of the historians will come. I had a very pleasant campaign in the Northeast standard. It was, like, a whisk. A senator suggested that, but not one of the top cohesion lists, Benedikt Jóhannesson, who was later to become a minister of economic and financial resources, nor did he ever speak of a spending fee, of the limits that have been set now in financial policy. He talked about infrastructure. He was a great spokesman for the improvement of young people's mental - health activities, especially in the northeastern district. I also remember hearing a representative of the third government party, whose future is bright, many people use beautiful words about its priorities in just the same way. Well, that was a big move there, isn't it? It was supposed to put a lot of heat on it and get it ready. Whether it was health, education, transportation, or anything else that benefited Iceland, it was not a matter of concern. I also know for certain that the fine man was disappointed with the intervention that the group noticed elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I felt very comfortable at what I was doing. A senator who spends so much time in his speech to recall what happened with his earlier privatization of banks. In fact, it would be a little strange if we were to sit in the conference hall today, and perhaps as well yesterday when news was received, and did not link these matters together because there is a re-entry or even an entire bank that seems to be the basis for the financial policy presented here. I'm gonna let myself quote a greater part of it. The budget board. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ One of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period of policy development has to do with the sale of state funds, particularly their share in business banks. So says, with President's permission: To a large extent, the subsidence of the State's debt is determined by the way it sells these assets. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Away from whether we agree on whether or even when to sell the banks and leave all things in between, it can be considered a good model for financial policy to base all its plans on the fact that you have to sell your share? What position does that put in the Icelandic State with prospective buyers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u129	Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's daughter for her counter-sponsored response. You see, I thought there was good reason to spend a lot of time earlier recalling this privatization and to recall two or three lines of lines I read earlier, by permission of a president. The banks landed, to some extent, by political lines, in the hands of people with little experience in banking. Put it down by political lines to show it. I don't think that's necessary. I don't think I'm gonna spell it into people. The senator who came up to answer. The question is, When should the banks be sold? The answer is very simple. There is no part to sell in these banks until it is established that by means of the regular work required and by the legislation required to reach the end of the line, we know who it is that we are offering to banks or shares of banks and/or generally other assets. We're not just talking about the banks, though I've taken them especially before. There's a lot more to it than that. We need to make sure this process is bulletproof. Then let's think about what we're selling and what we're not selling. And then we take it slow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I agree that if there's a sale for a holding part in banks, then, of course, it's been confirmed that all that sales process is bulletproof. We actually owe it to the people. Another indication is that we did not learn anything from the story. Although the one here is not a historian, she knows that it is important to learn from history. Everyone knows that's what the people want. You don't have to pay much attention to the social talk in the past 24 hours to think of anything else. But I'd like to reiterate the question I posed in a previous answer, whether it's dangerous to go along that clear way in the list of parts, to be attached in order to have a big plan on running the community up, we have to sell banks, and that's why other assets. Now I'd rather blame myself for socialism than capitalism, but I think I know a lot about how capitalism works in order to get the highest price for your property, you mustn't be completely dedicated to the buyer and his grace that he buys something of you. Isn't this just the legacy of bad politics that's being proclaimed here, seen by other factors that we can disagree about?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u131	A respectable president. I thank you for the second answer. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir in this matter. It's a very bad politics. It's a dangerous straitjacket. The Matrix may have heard that I used the word straitjackets. It's not my idea. This is the very word in the review of the financial Council. This is the term used by the good people, that they now have a state fund in a particular straitjacket and that they do not have enough space. Hv. A senator spoke of our debt to the nation. That's right. The senators and the government owe them professional work. You see, the nation still owes to them after the collapse of enormous sums of money. We are now wrestling on paying them down. The public of the United States can still wear it. This yoke is a result of not realizing that the rulers of the day were committed to their nation to do just that professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u132	Mr. President. Now, we've been discussing this matter all day, almost every member of the administrative body, as much as we can see in the conference hall. There's been no sign of any Minister today. The only minister in charge of this policy is the highest. Secretary of finance. This discussion is a very important point of view. There have been quite a number of very important viewpoints in the days we have been discussing this, but there is absolutely no one here to defend this course, which is to take part in a discussion of policy, from the point of view that there is something here to defend. We at the government stand have been tearing down this terrible trend, and there's nothing left of it. Can we get some more administrative members in the room, please, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u133	A respectable president. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. One thing is that the government does not have more success than it does, which in itself is fine. Another is that she has no more faith in her own matters that she cannot stand before them and have a word with us. Third, it's sad, so I'll let myself use that word, how it goes. The members of the Management Board have no more regard for the local seminar than for any member of the Parliament to participate in a general debate over a administrative network, which should normally be about all the bills, let alone the bill as the highest level. Ministers in the government have claimed to be the most important bill in the season of election. On this bill, the administrative body seems uninterested. What are some people here at the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u134	Mr. President. I have to agree with my friends here first. You get a little bit of the feeling that this document is going to be quite an orphan, don't just any handlers. They're all dried up. We have neither seen the chairman of the budget board and the manager of the greater part or the highest. Minister or any minister. For a time, I was so optimistic that I imagined the highest. The prime minister and former financial minister, who is now largely involved in the legislation in which we live in this area, would honor the council and the case with his presence. Of course, the main part of the board is to walk away from this case and show a lack of respect, not to be seen here, and then disappear. In my speech earlier, which was probably my second speech in this case, there could be more, I specifically asked if these authorities could not be received back before the discussion, e.g. Chairman of the budget board. I'm thinking about asking why a budget or more of it didn't talk about taking this roof back because that case was reviewed during the last term and decided not to have it. [[The president calls.]] In part, members of the committee are the same people. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President to deliver messages to the chairman of the legal committee and the Supreme Court. Minister to request their presence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u135	A respectable president. I come up here to urge the president to interrupt this discussion and give the financial committee an opportunity to bring the matter back to him and find out about it. More part of the legal committee is being sold for the State's parts. In view of the information that was presented yesterday and the discussion that has been held in the community, I think it is a reason for the majority of the committee to revise what he writes here. It is said that there is a need to prepare, which I truly agree with; however, the possibility of looking to foreign sources for counseling and management for sale is the case. I think that might be a reason for the committee to discuss it a little and a little more difficult. It's also shocking to stand here and not see just any senators in the chamber, one now appears in the doorway, when we're discussing financial policy and such important things as selling state property as shown in this policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u136	A respectable president. I agree with what. Councilmen here have spoken. It is entirely prerogative that there is not one member of the council to defend this synonym, financial policy until the next five years. It's not a little piece of paper. There are no small commitments here. In the memory of our talks, we have noted that the basis for the economic policy presented here is so weak that there are doubts about its effect. This is what we need to know. This is what we need to talk to the administrative representative. If they don't see how they can come here and defend this program for the next five years, I suggest the President call them here in a house, and we can have a word with them in the U.S. Congress seminar on this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u137	A respectable president. I can't talk and get it up here. I understand why. The members of the Management Board do not want to stay here and try to defend this policy, perhaps even less acknowledge it. Simply put, there are some members who have more responsibilities than the general board of directors. For making the highest possible picture. Secretary of finance, which I know was here for the discussion of yesterday and yesterday, the chairman of a financial committee, or at least some financial committees that would be ready to respond, at least to listen. Now we know that people can sit in their offices and listen, the highest. President. But it is just not the same as being present in the chamber, being able to intervene, correcting if one chooses to do so, but, of course, to participate in the discussion. I call attention to the time when I will give a talk in the following article. The president examined whether any of these people could be on time for the talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u138	A respectable president. This is about to become a permanent theme of this government, that it is absent in all its major affairs, and that it chooses to do as little as possible on its case or to discuss with us who are in the government's position. I think this is rather a bad message, especially from those groups that talked about changing practices, increased consultations, and more conversation with us in the government stand, these are new times when everyone should talk and be friends and work together. This is not much of a cohesive politics when we stand, the opposition, one of the National Congress, discussing the financial policy of a government that they choose not to represent themselves, but instead we look it into empty chairs. Ministers may prefer to express themselves on Facebook, but this is not a matter of opinion. I mourn for their absence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u139	A respectable president. I'd like it to be with the President at the highest. A minister of finance is made aware of the wishes of the senators to have a word with him now that we begin to anticipate the end of this discussion. At the same time, I ask for the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, to be called to the assembly. There's absolutely unacceptable elsewhere with basics, this is actually the largest policy document for a new government, but that it has a word with us during the final meters of this discussion. I expect, most respected president, to be interrupted at this assembly until either or both of these representatives of the government section see fit to come to the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u140	A respectable president. I agree with the demands that were presented in the case of the day. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir and others here that these two representatives of the administrative sector will be called to the hall. Is it my memory, have I become completely confused, which could be a possibility, that this is where people have been preaching a better practice, increased conversation, before elections? Even create entire political parties to improve the politicians? Is it less difficult for me to get a budget done by some people? Councilmen, this is now the highest. Ministers, in particular, would they talk about working together and a conversation conducted here? I think it's totally crazy. The present administrative part throws things into the nation's language room, sits off some pressure in the government stand, is like a prisoner waiting for time to go on, to move on, to throw in the next case, and to drive it through. [[The president calls.]] Where are the discussions and practices that the entire political parties lied to? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u141	President. Like what? paritaprevir Thorhild Ævarsdóttur Hevardsdóttir mentioned earlier, the discussion is held in this hall, not on Facebook. I like it so much that I have an open Web site on my computer, where all those who have mentioned in this hall since December 6 are listed as well as their speech time. It is prominent that the government and members of a government party are a little far from being in awards seats. There's the top of that list, sixth place, Bjarni Benediktsson's son. In 14th place is Benedikt son of Jóhannesson. In 19th place, Björt Ólafsdóttir. In the 21st place of Óttarr Proppé. [[The president calls.]] It's all the best. Ministers, there's still no senator on the list. I'll carry on with him later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u142	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with that request, please insist. We'll have financial and economic ministers called in and coming down here and we'll talk about this. He was a little busy with it the other day when we were discussing this matter. It was an improvement to his point of view. We're supposed to be talking about content and politics. I'd like to agree with that as well. paritaprevir The Eygló Harðardóttir pointed out that this discussion was, of course, a time off and a time to go. The legal committee to get the case back because there are so many baits. And so, Mr. President, I'd also like to ask for the highest order. The Environment Minister comes and participates in the discussion because it is said that sustainability should be one of the goals of economic policy but that economic growth is expected to be expected to go on and on in opposition to all climate issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we also need that minister for the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u143	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect the time for the talk being given.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u144	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss the basics of the new highest. Governments who have talked about the importance of having conversation and cooperation with what is at hand. City of Congress. As far as I can remember, the new reveries spoke a lot about the importance of this recent campaign. One of the biggest campaign promises, so let's discuss it, huh? Councilmen and the highest. The future minister of Birt's was improved work, that there should be a better practice here, with more cooperation and increased conversation. But this is why. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers can't be seen in the Generals' sales to have that conversation. That's my example, and I'm asking for it. Councilmen and the highest. advisers, so to speak, at the highest level. General President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u145	The President wants to inform us that messages have been received to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers and what. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u146	Mr. President. In this discussion about the President's conference board, I may have put my words first because I find it quite boring to talk to myself. I would love to talk to several ministers on this matter, especially the advisors of those who cannot work under the conditions set up in this financial policy. That's when I'm most referring to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, the highest. Minister of health and even the highest. Secretary of transportation. I would love to bring them all here to talk to them and to interact with them on how they can foresee that the structure of the administrative body has repeatedly claimed to attack under conditions set out in this financial policy. I don't know how this is gonna work. They may be able to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u147	A respectable president. I have to admit, it's different with me than with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy and my partner, I love talking to myself, and I do a lot of doing it when I walk down the valleys and up the mountains. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But so I'll continue with the list from now on. I mentioned that in the 21st place, Óttarr Proppé. You were wrong. He's down to his 22nd place now because I'm up to him. The first private member of the administrative committee is Brynjar Níelsson's son, in the 25th place. Pawel Bartoszek's coming after him in the 28th. A respectable president sitting here behind me, Tot to Björn Einarsson, is in 29th place. Jón Gunnarsson is in his 30th place. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee here is looking for doors and windows, Haraldur the son of Benedict, 31rd. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll be happy to continue with the list later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u148	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to reiterate my request from earlier, if the president could respond to the question of interrupting this discussion while giving counselers and a representative the opportunity to enter this discussion. This is one of the most important matters that every government can present as a respectable president should know very well from previous experience. The fact that we have to call for the members of the board to come here is unacceptable, and I don't think it's acceptable to call for just a financial minister, there are three categories that are involved in this government community. I think it's only natural that there's a minimum of the point of the board, the three leaders, because they must follow through on this matter. Here we are talking about the largest individual cases in every government, how we're going to handle the financial affairs of the state, how we're going to defend and make sure that what we've been discussing today, and yesterday and natural for more years, won't happen again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u149	Mr. President. As I learned in my speech on this subject, I feel that because this is a new methodology for making government laws, because this is a matter of trying to put long - term policy into the future, but we are certainly still initiating this process, if the General Assembly has not fully understood its role. This is likely to be the most important case that this government will present in its lifetime, whoever it will be. This is where the government's five - year policy is being taken, and the process continued to be completely narrowed. The welfare system, the educational system, the ideals of the lowest paid groups, the desperate and the elderly are being tailored to a very narrow sting. This is the big deal. Of course, you are amazed at the small part of the executives in this discussion, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u150	A respectable president. I must agree with all those who have spoken before and expressed my joy by coming to an interesting fact about my fellow soldier. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson. I must first emphasize the importance of having more ministers of the administrations present. As mentioned in the case of what? This document is affecting everyone's work. I want to know how they can claim that this document is a guide for their promises, i.e. how this document shows that they are going to fulfill the building blocks they promised, or structure, of the health system that the government covenant was likely to put first. It's hard for me to see it. I'd love to hear from the highest. The health minister of Óttarrir Proppér about how he envisions that this frame, this very narrow frame, this cage in fact, this government is setting itself up, fits into the emphasis it considers itself to enforce in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u151	A respectable president. I'll answer for what's called. Councilmen after the members of the board show up. They've had some success. We're getting reports here at the Senate Hall that there are nine members of the board in a house and one of them, the chairman of the budget board, why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, is in the side room. It would be most interesting for us to discuss this most important document in the government to hear how he envisions the structure of wood promised to be established and constantly on the part of the government parties before the elections, for it is not easy to see in this document how it will be handled. How good it would be if the chairman of the legal committee came here and explained it to us from his viewpoint!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u152	A respectable president. Before elections, all groups spoke about the importance of going to a massive infrastructure. Not only in the health system but also in education, transportation, and other infrastructures, law enforcement, and the systems that need funding, especially because we live in what is truly positive, there are travelers who, of course, never before and who will be added to the population and who will need services just as we do. In all these matters, perhaps in academic matters. It is therefore special when the government proposes this policy shortly after it is created, a government that you might have thought should be centered on the infrastructure, that would be the key to that government - at least it would have been the input into a government I would have liked to sit in this ideal period that the infrastructure was in all respects. It is also remarkable that a government with as little a share as it can be seen, 32 senators, puts a policy that goes further away from the views that have been in the hall, the opposition of the last term, and believes that there is something that can become the dominant agreement. We know that in the North countries, of course, there are many cases of minority governments, but even when the majority of governments are, people make it difficult to talk to other groups at council to support the policy they plan to follow. Perhaps that would have been wise for the present government. Because they say, especially the highest. Secretary of finance, that this is not just the most important case of the term, a man could understand his words that this is why the government came into being, i.e. The financial policy, that they might have to bring it up and that it would be practical, had a conversation with the government opposition on how to demonstrate policy in difficult times, I'm fully aware of it, not a difficult time, but a difficult time, because we're on the move and we're at the top of the economy, and we have a lot to do in the infrastructure. That's why it really matters how this is done. Perhaps it would have been wise to make a more practical policy, to have sat down, to find a way to build up the wood, and at the same time to maintain a government operation, thus providing room for continued positive economic growth without becoming in an economic situation because of too much economic growth, too much of the Icelandic crown's funding, too much interest, etc. We know this discussion. In itself, we are experimenting with this public financial situation. In fact, over the past few weeks and months it has been discussed as to whether the Constitution will be established, whether too much financial power has been taken from the Council, and it will be carried out by the European Commission. A member of the Generals is looking at such things. The more specific I feel that the approval of the General of the Council in December is not the instrument for the government, the execution of authority, simply to make a decision and carry out it, but rather to appoint the council, not just a political stand, but also the members of the council who were involved in the payment, not to go forward and finish the work on the basis of what has been approved. Here I refer specifically to the transport sector and seaports, which were special books on the budget and were approved here at the council. Because if we're in this experiment and we don't do it, it hurts. The purpose was to create an increase in discipline, a wise long - term strategy that we would see to it, as we emphasized what were investments that made us money for the future, increase the interest and increase in service to the population, and the increase in cost of government business, which, of course, hangs together and we need to make sure that there is something we can do. In other words, I have an understanding of this position, that we need to be careful in the run-ins. The economic teachings say that there is nothing to be done. The big question, then, is: If we don't have enough money to build the wood, when should we build it up? It might be okay to put in such a piece of paper that we'd be able to balance everything here, build up all the infrastructure, we wouldn't have this angle on the interiors of the health system, transportation, and other key systems that we want to be properly financed and successful. But to contribute this document with added resources, extra screws to keep the box out at the same time that there is a requirement for infrastructure in all areas when we're at the top of the economy and we know we're going down, that the government intends to plan to cut it down when it comes and just sit down with an empty system. Of course, there must be an internal repair structure in the health system, in the education system, and especially in the transport system. If money is missing, I find it awkward for the government to add taxation to the people who are driving and from work, those who drive services to and from the capital area, which will make the products more expensive. Especially in view of the highest income market. The secretary of finance does not want to know that there has ever been a market, has been a range of 3,3535 billion, and is expected to take road action, but more than 20 are going in the way. And at least the ports and airports, about 27 billion. In other words, these projects have been financed. If you want to hit the spell, I don't think it's the wise thing to increase tax returns to those who drive and from job to job or drive products to and from the capital area. It must make sense to go on some other level. For example, it is wise to discuss whether it is wise to adopt a form of travel service that we know today. We forwarders have suggested a kind of return fee, whether we call it a passenger fee, as the Germans call them, which is therefore allowed within the EEA area, when the European Union's main country lays on such charges, or something else, which we can also use to direct. Depending on different airports, they may vary in height over different seasons. Istavia places annual landings on a range of landings. If we're afraid to take this discussion, if we need funding to finance the infrastructure without slaving the picture, I think it's odd that I can't have this conversation with every member of the board. I think it's lame. We've also talked about the lack of more money in this system. Would it be wise to set up a public health tax? Recreate the sugar tax? It was impossible, as it was laid in its time. But perhaps it was the tax that the people now paid with a smile because it brings good health to all of us as well as to our health. Nor can anyone fail to wonder, wanting to be pressed, who is the one who is the one who causes the greatest assembly. Is it not those who have the most money? We live with a peculiar capital tax. Although the percentage is low compared to the North countries, it is designed to do quite a hair thing. Why do we not consider this? What makes it certain that those who own 100 sheep and handle money need to calculate a calculated price, a pay rate of less - than - price income to the rural community, while those who have 100 million and shop with their money do not have to calculate a calculated amount of money and pay nothing for an outback in the community? Pay only 20% of the capital tax, just like the one who owns 500. K. 1 million in his book. The tax system changes can be thought of in the direction of a filing, at the time. The government says it's a pass, we don't have an opinion. We're going to tax those who drive the cars more. We don't think they're taxable enough. Yet, yesterday at the world's headquarters or annual meeting of the Association for Professionals was held at the highest level. Prime Minister's talk about lowering the upper level of the worthy tax to the lowest in the north. In fact, we have the lowest today, but we're still lower, taking decisive leadership, as he said. The message may have been that the sum of a total of 11% of transport tax would then be increased to 22%. That, however, is an effort to cope with some form of expansion. But, then, is this financial policy worth something? If the tax system is to be changed when we're finishing this discussion? In fact, I missed the Commission program of the greater part that there was no discussion of gangs and gang developments and its consequences. They were also not spoken of high interest levels and the consequences of their growth. There's a natural interaction between us. The five - year - old financial policy that should be so well-funded that one piece of cake or another cannot be improved, and it is remarkable that the main concern of the economy is not covered at that time. Too high, growing gangs, risk of getting stronger with related consequences, evaporating the effect of tourism, and the fact that growth in Iceland is just like the debate that no one can enter the infrastructure, either in a recession or in a time of well - being. These are far too high whether it's a recession or a climax of a period of expansion, as we seem to be doing today. We can keep the interest longer, adding more years than those seven. Which is a great success we've achieved in recent years. But we have to have a wise course so that we can maintain this time and land our economy. It's not wise to have 7% interest year after year. It will simply be very difficult to deal with the entire economy at that point. I miss it because it seems that the government is making the way for financialism to be not a tool for handling real problems in the system. Yet, it is mentioned in the greater section of the committee that is positive, and by permission of a president, I intend to quote it on page 5. 4 of the Official Investors: To avoid further expansion and support for Iceland's financial policies, the State needs to establish its investments in a way that does not risk overexcitement at the same time. There are many ways to do so. What Ways? They don't have much on them. Yet, what was positive is mentioned, and I was going to give a witness. It is said that we can be weighed, and we advanceers agree, since the public investment effects vary depending on the types of projects they are and where they are. There are areas in the country where economic growth is not exactly this 7.2%. He's a lot lower. In other words, economic growth in the southwest corner has likely been higher, since the average country average was 7.2% last year. It is wise, and it is an opportunity to go to a marvelous structure in the region, especially in transport, and also in other areas where there is no expansion. Is it likely that the government will? Not according to this policy or not according to the plan we have seen and heard of the Minister of the Government. What do the senators say? They say little at the moment. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson who was reading the list of what each says. They don't come here much to express their opinion. They absolutely avoid defending this financial policy. Which I understand well. But someone in the management team has to do so, for it is finally time to vote on this matter. In view of the greater portion, with the permission of the president again, it appears on page 18. 4 When it has been discussed that there is a small flaw in the fact that our rural communities are out of shape and are unwilling to participate in this and that much more of the situation exists in the rural community: No other part contributes to the approval of policy, but it is urgent that the understanding of financial policy remains to be settled before it comes to a discussion of the financial agenda for the same period so that discussions of individual causes do not affect the overall financial issues of the government. If I try to understand this sentence and say it in human language, it seems to me that the greater part, although he is not prepared to defend it at the council Hall, will take the discussion of this policy, suggest that it will be accepted as the same. And the reason is that you have to agree with it before the financial programme shows up, so members, perhaps members of the council, don't start saying, "Hey, there's a lot of money in this business area, we just have to raise this party quickly. And then financialism is over. It seems to me that the more part is saying that first we have to make a box that we'll never get out of. Councilmen must just press the green button and accept that it will not be the built-in structure they have expected. A respectable president. It's awful that we're taking this discussion right here alone in the hall, the government side. [[Up front.]] With one exception. And that's how it's been most of it today. Sometimes one, sometimes no one. But never the same. And have some. Any senators come in and have a conversation with us? We haven't seen it today. It is also shocking to the highest. The secretary of finance is not sitting here participating in the discussion. I know he did it from the discussion, but it's important that it be done to the end. I'm going to finish my case saying, this policy can't last this way for five years. We at the governor's position will vote against her. We in the advance group cannot live on a policy that we see to be unrealistic. We need a policy where there is a greater thought of mixed economy, if money is missing to keep balance in debt and income and if there's such a clear view that you can just frame everything on top of it, bring it back as much effort as possible, and hope that the loan-making companies in the world will bless this, that the Seðlaban will be happy. I'd like to suggest that in the law this document should be discussed with the financial council. It made all kinds of comments, including. that there would be more to it. But it also pointed out that this additional rule of roofing an investment as a proportion of land production is too rigid, due to that fact. That we're at the top of the economy. V.E.G. President. I think it would be most reasonable for the greater part to review this, be prepared to make adjustments where there is a greater flexibility in financial policy, with a greater consideration for what needs to be done. You're not trapped in economics, you're looking at the real world. There's gonna be an inside building in Iceland. Of course, we need to babysit the spell. It's tricky, but it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent review of this matter. I share many of his views. I would like to take advantage of only the experience. A senator has more than me, and indeed many more here, to discuss only the affairs of the rural society. I know why. A senator served in that field. Like what? In the majority opinion, a senator mentioned various aspects of the community's affairs. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The more important point is that conflicting production may result in discrepancies between financial policy and rural development. This is part of the local community's achievement, reminding that the rural community needs to remember that their undisputed role is to master public finances, so it is likely that, concomitant with a responsible target for the state's survival, will be working on the same thing in the communities. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this financial policy, strong in public finance for the next five years, works together with the rurals? This is where more things go. The legal committee is particularly responsible for the review of these matters by the community and the state of the community. I agree with what. It is surprising that after all that is introduced here, the greater part should suggest that the matter be agreed as it should. How does that count? A senator that the communities will take this course? Will it really be successful to enforce it against the will of society?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u154	A respectable president. It is true that in view of the greater part of the development of rural society, they are to have their own financial rules. Of course, they point to it. However, this document expected that they would provide some remaining waste, which seems to have been rather poor work or did not put enough work into it, simply because later, it was found that there was no agreement with the rural communities on this. In the majority of the estimates, it is noted that the pension debt at the Bride's pension fund and the rural communities taken by the State may have a significant effect on accounting and that achieving these goals will be strictly excluded for a period of time. It might have been necessary to put more work into it. That's a sign. Regarding rural society, it is obvious that they differ. Maybe not just as many of them are, but there are different groups. In some rural areas, there is a great demand, simply because there is a great increase, and therefore there is a need to build up a nursery and school. In some rural areas, for example, I think 7% who will call for such investments, although they have the greatest difficulty in entering the 150% rule in the next few years. In other rural areas, the situation may be different. Some rural society reduces people's income and makes less money. It's hard. It must require more conversation. In my speech, I said we were experimenting on this project. The experiment will fail if it does not meet the cooperation of rural society and the state, these two administrative ladders, of public finance. Then the experiment fails.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him that the experiment will fail if there's no more cooperation than it is now. It's not easy to plan on going to such a huge experiment that is based on no more cooperation than this. Hv. A senator made a good impression on his case the budget set up by the extra involved in financial policy. I know why. A senator knows a lot about the countryside. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's right on this one. In the majority sense, the positive results of economic growth are said to reach the point where economic growth continues throughout the forecasting period, and it is the longest continuous economic growth in modern history. One day my relatives in the countryside would have told me that it would not be good for me to just assume that next year's grass will grow better, and there will be a new one for grass every year. It would be pretty smart to assume that I would have a small table for a table, so I'd blend the seaman's case into the same thing. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject. He knows a government law better than I do. What can be the purpose of the principle of putting it in here? Hv. A senator said that if I understood it correctly, we would not actually go into any infrastructure. Are we watching that there will be no beautiful promises of infrastructure or that these will be provided only with private funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u156	A respectable president. I used to discuss it in return at the highest. President that this rule would make it very difficult to be flexible if, and it is very likely, the age will not always improve more and more, not always becoming more good and stable interest, especially when we look at the steady strength of the crown, a very high interest, which is not discussed in the committee's list of more parts. There's a risk that we're going off the cliff and the landing will be hard, with rapid declines in domestic production. And then it's all wrapped up, so we can't change our policy. Of course, it sounds very strange for those listening, that we cannot change anything, but the purpose of the public economy was to produce more discipline and long - term thinking. That's why I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that this is an important document, perhaps not the most important part in a whole term, but it is important. Therefore, it is even more peculiar that the management members should not participate in the discussion. As a result, because policy prohibits response and goes into additional investors, the only way to allow private partners to, or to sell, more assets, is to let them. That is what you suspect is the underlying reason for such strict rules, as if they did not trust themselves. But the other is to create a frame so narrow that it must be thought outside the box, do something other than use a government case to cope with a different economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u157	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his contribution in this discussion. In his speech, he said that it would be wise to now build up, especially in the country area, and he explained in his speech that if he was in the government now, he would use himself to build up for a long time on the insides of society. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson says this because it's an opportunity now. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator how he feels about this overemphasis on subsidies due to legal boundaries rather than spending part of a trust fund in a multi-involved infrastructure that has been waiting for many years. It's a song, like a snooze. A senator described. True, he has made a point of this in his earlier talk and answers, but I would like to hear exactly what was happening. A senator feels that this too much emphasis is involved, especially where there is intensity. A senator is a former U.S. Marshal. The prime minister who served on the Ministry Committee on Economics and made major decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u158	A respectable president. I thought it was very important a few years ago that we put a very clear framework in financial policy and showed discipline so that we could pay a lot of money to reduce debt and raise money, which had become one of the largest points in government spending, about 90 billion, to create space and if we were able to reduce debt and have it brought down to 60-170 billion, we would have a total of 2,930 billion time available for investments, whether in progress or additional operations. Now I think we're in a nice place today if we manage to maintain the eco-efficiency some year ahead, we could use it, and we could pay off the debt more slowly, but still, we got pretty good results. And go to the end for a reasonable investment that makes money less attractive than some investments. In fact, we do well to consider using some of this money that we would not use to pay off our debts so quickly that we could develop a powerful stabilising reserve that would have an effect on the stability of walking. There are these things I would have liked to see in financial policy. That people are thinking about how we could make more stability, less landing. Because, eventually, we're going down. It is inevitable that at some point the economic crisis will level and go down. We know that. I feel that there is a lack of money, and I find it shocking that in this section there is no talk about success or high interest. As a result, there is no financial policy to five years, which corresponds to the huge challenge we are facing now and that we have been doing for several months, and we have no time to cope.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u159	Thank you. A senator's answers. I agree with what. A senator with this. Despite this tremendous heat and tension in the economy, there are no real ways to spread in this financial policy. As we have repeatedly noted, this is not just a one - year financial policy but a five - year - old. Hv. A senator mentioned the above in a talk and responded to the tension. It's almost tangible. Little is being proclaimed to address the tensions in the economy. I agree with him on that. It's an incredible failure to face this tension level, unless it's announced that automatic fluctuation will be used. But it has also been undermined by the very foundation of this automatic balance, which in human language means that it should only recover, the income comes in, and actually correct this tension. Hv. A senator refers to the stability fund, which is an idea that has been discussed. I asked the highest. Secretary of finance into those ideas. He couldn't really answer that question. They're out of the air somewhere. Would it not have been better to proclaim real action to reduce this tension, whether in a housing market or in the course of walking and growth? What would have been an operation? In these present - day conditions, did a senator support himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u160	A respectable president. During my last days at the Ministry of Presidency, I set up a team to examine the effect of an ever stronger gang to Iceland's competitiveness, to individual sectors, and to other aspects of government and economic affairs. The group returned at the end of January one nine suggestions. I have asked several times in unsubstantiated talks by prime minister and finance minister when to expect some action on the basis of this. I believe we have no time to waste. It happens so fast. The economy is in such great strength. If we wait too long, perhaps some actions that could have been done two, three months ago won't work. One of the operations was for immediate execution. Now she's come, but she just had no effect. While growing in this high country, there will be constant influxs, whether of a tourist currency that still flows in, which is positive, but also will be able to find ways to increase interest, i.e. The investors of the universe, though we have shut down a certain route in June last year, which was a very good thing to do. I'm a little worried that this government, with so little more part, is afraid to handle big matters, has no support to go where she wants to go. And despite her ability to express her appreciation for cooperation, cooperation, and consultation, she did not or would not. On the other hand, I am also concerned that the political policy of the government is a real inactivity that then chose because, after all, the people will say: "Well, if we have to build this road, won't the people have to pay for it? " There are no other ways. I'm worried that it is the real policy we face, and this document is one of its manifestations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u161	Mr. President. It's been really interesting to keep up with this discussion. I've learned a lot from it. Still, I've felt that we were too busy getting involved in technology because we're talking about direction. A policy to be some kind of ideological document in my opinion. I can agree that the budget should contain a considerable amount of numbers and sizes and technical applications, as well as financial programs. But the policy is to be a little more than that. A course is some kind of direction, some kind of goal, an idea of something better. There's been no way back in this. A policy is not a tablet of numbers and a list of rules, and it is grassed by dictionary definitions, such as this so - called financial policy. I've talked about many times about the lack of some kind of vision for this government. What I mean by that is that it can be said at that point 2022 when this policy is to be completed then there's something in it, something in the government's ideas that have somehow made society better. I don't mean better in the sense that the GDP is slightly higher, but simply that people feel better, that the community has made some progress. As I watch these financial policies, she somehow assumes that society will be better off by just being done less of everything, that it's less of structure, less by paying for the systems that give us life. I thought of Daniels Burnhams's words that I find quite interesting, even though the man himself may not have been my favorite, but he said, with the permission of a president: ▪ Do not make small plans. They lack magical powers to stir human blood and are likely to fail. Make big plans. Keep high for hope and work, and remember that an upright, logical image written will never die but will live long after we have left and will experience an ever - increasing craving. I like that. True, this is my translation of those words, so if something was stupid in this, it's my impression. But the problem is we're not talking about big plans here. We're talking about a little plan, so little plan, it's gonna hold on a few pages. It is not only that, but as I have said in previous talks that this so - called policy, which describes no direction, describes no direction or no aim other than simply to reduce the debt of state and to achieve some of the rules of living, does not match even laws on public finances that it goes on to meet. In fact, laws on public finances do not even pass the constitution to which they seem to care for their own right to self - determination by the Council. This point, that this implementation of policy is in opposition to the law or is not fulfilling at all the laws of the law, would be reason enough to reject this course. There is no need for other reasons, even though they have been listed in this conversation at the Assembly Hall, not just by dozens, but by hundreds. At this moment, there are so many reasons why this is actually embarrassing. It just needs one thing, and it's that it doesn't fulfill the law. But the reason I think I'm causing it is because I'm going to say no to this policy isn't the technical issue that it doesn't meet laws, but that it's not policy, it's not a matter of ideologies. There is something missing in this that makes people move and ideas to wake up and to have some positive thoughts for the next five years. This shows a little bit that when we're talking about this policy, it's not even possible to stir the blood of the dog. At any rate, members of the board of directors who are hardly seen in a Senate Hall. They have made it their detriment that this has been one - sided and, in effect, a rather boring conversation with us in the opposition of government. A lot of very interesting things have come up, incredibly interesting, but a few talks have been rather thin, we have to admit it. This one-way conversation will always be that way. This will not be the communication we need in order for the outcome to become some kind of vision. There are few senators in the house. There are no ministers. It is not possible to have the conversation about how we will conduct health, transportation, social, and welfare matters. We can't even have a conversation with a minister, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister on what will happen to innovation. We are not given some kind of vision in the management of the economy itself because of the highest. The prime minister is not coming, nor is he the highest. Although he did so in the first few days, the minister of finance did so. But as a result, there has been no conversation. We need this conversation, and we need a course that will make us think about the future that we look forward to. In my conversation with what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier, we went on only a few things that are of enormous importance to the future. The way we're going to look at the environment, how we're going to deal with increased self-reactivity because of improved technology, artificial intelligence, self-sustaining cars, and a single hobby. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson's bear, carnivore, which could possibly alter entirely the terms of our economy. Of course, we cannot predict exactly what changes in technology and progress will occur. That's exactly why we have a bearing. When you look at the idea behind such a policy, I don't mean this policy. I mean, it's the idea behind policy policy policy policy policy policy in the general nation, that it's a directive that it's some kind of frame, some kind of setting up how we're going to react when the economy changes, when society changes. The society will change over the next five years, we know it. We don't know how. We can imagine. We can make stage shots, we've been calling for them quite a bit. We can develop some kind of ideas about what happens if the current increases or reduces the flow of tourism. What if advances in technology become considerably greater than we expected or even considerably less? We can make these stage shots. We can play these games, go to this, with president's permission, ◯warms, war games, with the practicalations we'll see to it. This enables us to develop a vision that we really want to face. Then it may begin to stir up in the blood of both men. Senators. Then they may go to the Hall of Congress. Then it may be possible to have a conversation about the nation's future, because this policy, if a policy should be called and I'm not willing to call it, will not make it happen that we see no future, at least not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u162	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I find that interesting. A senator came on as a matter of setting a future policy, making plans, and then having them based on something and having some data on which the plan or policy is based. In view of this, as mentioned in the discussion, we are in a new environment, i.e. in the environment of a recently approved government law. On the other hand, I'd like to ask what. In view of this, how important is it to have these data, to have things to build on, because we are making decisions on how to run society for the next five years? Based on the data we now have, policy will be approved, we're doing it in a bit of a blind spot. That is what I wanted to ask, and it was because of what happened. A senator spoke of a course I would like to link it to a different course, another goal that we as a nation set for ourselves, and, in fact, the nations of the world, or most of them, by signing the Paris Convention. That and the policy presented here, as this policy is based on an increase in economic growth in the years to come. You can't think that way if you're going to deal with climate issues. I'd like to pray. A senator to think this over with me and to shed light on the way he sees these two talk together or don't talk to each other, as above. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for two good questions. You're absolutely right. I'm an amateur of more information than less. Of course, if we had received more specific reasons, we could have done this work better. I see we don't have one, not two, not three, not four, but five counts from the Committee, five committee opinions. It means that the committee has not even been able to speak down on having four, three, or even two opinions on this matter. Rather, it had to become five people who tell me that work has not been won. Clearly, work has not been accomplished because it has not been available. People have not been able to understand the course in which this so - called policy is actually taking. When we were in government conferences, we received a huge amount of information from the Ministry of finance in the form of a cornea that told us something about how the economy was working. Where is it here? Where's the presentation, and where's the idea of where we're going in? Why don't those ideas come back? That's what I want to know. I'm asking why. In contrast, a senator: Why is this the case? About goals. I agree that there was a lack of the Paris convention objective. Should we talk about the UN's world aims, which are quite good and need a little attention to this future? It's not too well to realize that there are some sort of melodramatic, high-tech money-interesters, I don't even know what to call them people, who put up ideas like this without taking into account the community under which they live. I just don't understand, Mr. President. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u164	Mr. President. The issue becomes somewhat strange when we ask a few questions, acknowledge that we do not understand how those who put the matter to the Senate have thought about it and would like to have a clearer answer to our questions, but there is no reference. I have to admit, I don't understand what this is all about. Admittedly, though, one may have the boring suspicion that it is merely based on political ideologies that are to be run through whatever it is that it is that it is merely subjugated to a political ideologies that cannot be suggested by society unless it rests within the economy. I'd like to finally ask you what. A senator whether we need to continue calling in the Minister so that we do not need to continue to feel ourselves blindly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u165	Mr. President. It's kind of boring to hang out here in the dark. I reiterate my request to get some rest. The secretary of transportation, health care, and social matters in the house. It's a little strange that we should be trying to talk about what is and should be a philosophical document, actually, it should be, but it's not a philosophical document, which marks the government policy and her policy in the financial affairs of the state, but we get nothing but a table that happens on the front page, as it divided capital, so some rules, consequences, debt rules, and debt rules. It's just boring. Besides, there's no future in this. I'm bored that we can't have a normal conversation about politics and politics and the ideologies that are fundamental to all of this. I agree with you completely. I don't know if I can answer a question. A senator better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u166	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. We've had a lot of discussions with this team today and yesterday. I may feel that the main conclusion is that we are successfully able to view the plan along the course as we would like to do in view of the way things are being handled, and we do not feel that we are directly concerned about this. I attended a annual meeting of the Council Bank, where the prime minister gave a talk. Since the Secret Bank has now been presented to prime minister, he continues to speak for three years at this annual meeting and now spoke at the fourth, where one and another were presented. Among other things, he pondered the stability of economic issues, which he now felt was that most groups set themselves up as a primary project and spoke of the fact that they were put forth to achieve some kind of agreement and reconciliation. What caught my attention was that he spoke of using economic instruments to reduce the rhythms, since the financial balance has now been taken off in this government policy, and he spoke of the vice of impatientness. As a nation, we would not accept slow changes, change to any 3% whether it was talking about government contributions, increases in wages, or so forth, there was a need for so much more. He also spoke of the plan that will be submitted tomorrow. As far as I could hear, it would highlight health issues and perhaps little else. I'm asking why. A senator, because a minister also spoke of valuable taxes and schemes in the public, as well as extra travel initiatives, whether he thinks, in the light of what we have already heard, that the building up of infrastructure, not only in health matters, but also in education and transportation, and so on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u167	Mr. President. I'm really glad to hear that. The prime minister sees fit to have a place to speak with the Secret Bank. That's great. I'd feel even better if he could see fit to come here and have a conversation with us. So I'll answer a question. The senator, and I thank you for this question because it's a bit of the matter, that's the answer no. There is no evidence in this direction, and it has been observed so often that it is really embarrassing to answer that question again. But no, it's not gonna happen, it's not gonna be possible because, in addition to the fact that there's no ideologies about what the future should look like in this so-called policy, there's a very cynical attitude toward society that lacks structure, structure on our ability to educate the next generation, our ability to care for older people, and people who need more help. There is nothing left after 1.6% of GDP has been taken from them to pay off debt and when they have set up a budget of 40 percent, whatever it was. [[Up front.]] There's nothing left. This policy is about to skin the community. I'm absolutely a spokesman for the fact that we are very close to the economy and close to government. We are not to run the Kingdom with endless tilts and debt collections. It's not supposed to be. That would be unwise. Because of the bad society we create, the organization that lies ahead of us must always be. I'm not interested in living in a worse society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u168	Mr. President. I thank the senator for that answer. That caught my attention in a talk of the highest order. Of course, the prime minister admitted that the government was experiencing this pressure on a five - year financial program. She realizes that, of course, there is a need for financial support everywhere, as we know it. He speaks of national economic benefits, but with the permission of a president, the same is not possible when it is combined. Then comes the bitter economic reality. He goes on to say that the priority is based on the Mosaic Law covenant and that it refers merely to health care and not to the rest. I met an old independent who is now a woodcutter who was deeply concerned that the head of the Independence Party and the prime minister had been proclaiming tax reductions at a meeting in a town yesterday and had serious doubts about it, believing that there were signs similar to what was happening before a collapse. Can the senator agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u169	Mr. President. I don't know what to say. It's amazing that you're getting reports of the expected tax reductions at the highest level. Prime Minister from out of town. There was nothing too high on the government policy list that I think of taking some downs. They've been through a series of downs and downs. True, I've asked the highest. Secretary of finance into possible reductions in insurance. I don't approve of maintaining a high tax policy, but going to some tax reductions at this point may not be wise, and especially in the light of this financial policy so-called that has no guarantee that we will be able to pay for everything we have to pay for in order to keep our tanks going. No, I'll agree with that. But I kind of think it's kind of a shitty policy you're on out of town.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for an excellent speech and an excellent lyrics, a quote. Now I don't know the original text, but the senator questioned something about his own translation. I thought she was fine, but I wasn't going to talk about it here. The senator introduced the lack of ideologies in this financial policy, in fact, this financial policy is not really a policy. I'd like to ask you what. So if I have just understood the facts and come a bit further, then when these laws were passed, the original thought was not when this law was passed, what his view of it is. And then, on the other hand, what he mentioned earlier in his counter today that the next five months, he spoke of a lot of uncertain things, which are often so true of the future, that it is vague. How does he see the future transformation, sudden discovery, rapid evolution e.g. .....................................................
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u171	Mr. President. Thank you for the questions. It's a question of how to approach it. Ideas are one thing. I'll admit there's some ideologies in this. There is no future in this, but there is some ideologies. It is the ideologies of cold New Freedomism that we have seen somewhat in the highest order. Government. It is a policy that assumes that no one is doing anything together but that everyone should do everything separately. It is, of course, a mere interpretation of it, but I intend to allow it in the light of a lack of time. Surely we can do better than that. I want to see that we can do better. That has to do with a third question. A senator who has been discussed, including of what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen last night, it reminds me, as she wondered whether it might be possible to be talking about shutting off fish work at Akrelini as a part of what we will continue to see through increased self - efficiency, which reduces the need for workers and increases the profits of companies who have robotics and artificial intelligence that are responsible for all their work. When we put it in the context of the discussion, which includes. In fact, there have been many multibillion films in the world that we need some kind of funding on the commercial social network just to cope with this technological expansion and expansion, of course, it comes in. I see I've fallen on time, so maybe next time I'll answer another question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u172	A respectable president. The question that survived was about the charge roof, so I can get to less. It belongs to a senator. He introduced the idea that this was the ideologies of cold New Freedomism. I'd like to ask him about the foundation on which this financial policy is based. Here, I'm going to take a quote from a text, with the president's permission: ▪ The growth of tourism, which has become the largest export branch in the country with more than one third of exports, has been extremely rapid and vigorous. This inevitably has a significant impact on other employment sectors, including the U.S. in competition for labor and funding. The continuing granting of the crown, such as the expected unchanged, will result in further decline in the competitive status of other exports, and will ultimately compromise the business balance. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into this fact and the prospect and the basis for financialism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u173	Mr. President. Thank you for the question. This income charge will likely result in a decrease in GDP in any way we may have to undergo surgery if this policy is to be maintained. It's a bad ide, and I'm against it. As we look at these effects of tourism and other changes, services have increased to power growth over the past few years, and some claim that they will continue. Other people who are, I think, are more realistic that they're going to be equal to some sort of S wave in the months or years. When that happens, it's a question of how much damage is done. Because, on the contrary, the export balance has decreased to some extent and the level of consumption has been increasing. So we could be looking at a very negative picture if that is true. [[The president calls.]] That's not the conclusion that I think we can accept. As a result, we need to discuss the financial policies of our country while doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u174	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the debates, why not? The members of Parliament will discuss a proposal for a hearing of financial policy resolution before 2017/2022. We are discussing the framework that the budget should fit until 2022. In my speech, I will discuss the viewpoints presented in a committee study of 4th smaller parts of the legal committee. That's why. paritaprevir The tribe of forward, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir, is considered to be on behalf of the forward party at rest. It's a legal committee. As stated in law No. 123/2005 the government, after it is formed, shall shape a financial policy proposed by the Secretary of the Council in the form of a proposal for Congress as soon as possible, but no later than the rest of the next bill's contribution to budget. Note that it can be submitted along with a bill for the next budget, i.e. budget for 2018 The General Assembly resolution of financial policy to five years of age should be proposed as a synopsis for a financial strategy proposed each year to the General Assembly. A financial program then lays the groundwork for a financial bill submitted by a government every year in the fall of the year. That process regarding budget management, we know why. Senators are well - versed. Hence, there is no need to make the suggestion. In effect, the proposal can be suggested along with the budget done in the fall. Then tomorrow, if I remember correctly, we'll have a financial presentation, and then we'll go for it. Councilmen see the premise as the ultimate. The government's gonna be in the government budget in the next few years. There we will see the total income and the desired amount if the revenues are set forward. There we should see the box placed before the structure laid for the coming years. In my opinion, it would have been good to keep putting up this financial agenda until we'd seen the lines at the top of the budget. Governments, and we'll figure out what case to take care of. The government, in effect, intends to set priorities. That's where we could, for example. see if there was enough funding for the national infrastructure. Then I'm for the sake of talking about health, education and transportation and other important factors, such as socializing, what is involved in the affairs of the elderly, disability. There we could see in autumn financial work, if we were to win this financial policy together, some lines will become clear about how to get the top. The government intends to work and emphasis on the strategy, to see if transport is to be added, to the necessary road repairs, to measures such as the Western Sea Road No. 60. What about the Arctic Express roads on the beach? What about the Bay of Barbarians and other factors that are important in determining whether funding is suggested? That way we can keep counting. We could see whether to set priorities for learning, such as learning. To promote schools for education in many parts of the country, high school, university, or other schools of education? Will medical institutions be promoted in many parts of the country? How much should patients be reduced to pay attention? Are you going to combine medication and medical expenses? To add additional components to patient collection, e.g. Psychological costs and other forms of multidisciplinary service within the health institutions and other parts of the system? What about nursing care, home service to the elderly? It is important that they be greatly increased, and there is clear evidence of that in the next series, because as we shall see and all will have it. This growing group in our society and the need for service are known by members of the Parliament. We need to be ready to respond and give these people the service they deserve. But with those words, I'm not saying that we should not pay off the debt of the state, but we disagree on how fast it should be worked. We, in the opinion of the 4th minor legal committee, find it too fast to pay off the State debt and are afraid it will suffer from an important infrastructure in the coming years. I also worry about the roof that goes on during the financial policy, which says that the official annual total cost will not exceed 41.5% of GDP per year. Then you wonder: " What if national production is added together? Should they be gathered in public service? Or how would this be done? So, is it really going to solve the government's services on a private basis? Is it thought that if national production is intertwined, even property should be sold? How should we react if national production is interconnected? If we should be below the policy - making roof, how should we finance the infrastructure? I can't help saying what they're saying. Congress members of the government front team who have wondered if there's a new independentism around us here. Governments. We say very dangerously, attaching expenses to a specific roof. It is also stated in the introduction to Internal Affairs 4. A smaller section of the budgetary Committee says that states and rural communities made an agreement and went on a real basis for the continued reduction in debt ratio. In the opinion that an agreement is not reached, it is considered that a section of the budgetary committee considers that economic policy aims are completely unrealistic, since it is clear that rural areas do not succeed in their share of economic goals published in financial policy. We find it very critical that governments offer one - sided goals for their communities without agreement with them. It's really serious. We all know that the cost of rural society has been rising substantially over the past few years. The service stage in this country has become very high. They have rendered increased service, e.g. if we watch elementary school. Increased service has come into them. Happily, more workers enter elementary school to do this service. This results in expense. It is vital that the State look to it. There have also been collective agreements with various members of the rural community. This means an increase in the cost of rural society and no doubt affects their survival. In addition to this, rural communities provide services, e.g. in the case of the elderly, part of that service. They provide services for those who need service because of disability and other services. Therefore, it is essential that this conversation take place with rural society, the European Union. As indicated in Article 4 of the Committee, it is important that the business of the state and rural society be completed this year by increasing the share of local communities in taxes, including In view of the increase in the financial resources of projects that have been put into the communities, as previously said; basic school, increased service within it, disability issues, and other activities. We're gonna go for a second. The members of Parliament must agree that this service will be rendered with security and is financed. That's why there's going to be a state of state between receipts. In terms of the income and cost policy, it is considered that 4 less things must be made clear for the provision of the expected range in the coming years. A fourth lower part of criticism is intended to pay off the total debt of the government, but a plan estimates that they will be 30% of GDP by the end of 2019 and will not exceed 26% of GDP by the end of 2020. Furthermore, a 4.m bit disagrees with how fast this is going to go and is afraid of the fast subsidies, which, of course, are needed to pay off debts, I'm not saying that it's not important, but we are concerned about how fast to go to them while we see reports of bad transport positions, of services that have been drawn together in health institutions around the country. We see news on the plight of Hospital Hospitals and other factors. You don't see signs of being working on this. As I told you, we all know reports of less medical services in many parts of the country, reports of Land Hospitals, and high health - care costs. This is how you can proceed. We may well remember that all classes, remembering me, discussed the importance of adding to those factors if they came to power at the General Assembly. It would be very good in this discussion, if for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A health minister would be here and what. Those in charge may have discussions and find answers to our questions about how to work toward the goals set out to form in a governmental contract on vital factors. I'd like to quote the Constitution. You wonder about the small amount of space involved in this policy how to meet the issues presented in the government covenant. With the permission of the president, I'd like to read a little bit of the government contract. Governments. It says: No matter what the economy or social situation, good health and health services will be the priority of the government. Health policies that are compatible and trusted by health care, improve human health, and contribute to the health of the people of the country. The aim should be to reduce the benefit of individual healthcare professionals. The construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road will be accelerated as possible and the construction of the treatment core will be completed in 223 C.E. Access to expert services should be added in the scattered areas, including by promoting telecommunications. The health status of the patient's first stop will be strengthened. The bioavailability of mental - health services is increased, including psychological services for health care and higher schools. Children with mental problems and psychological services are being promoted to insurance systems. A special campaign will be performed to shorten the waiting period for the health care system. Yes, these are big words, important words. I can totally agree with them. But it's gonna cost a lot of money. We must be prepared to provide it with funds for these factors in order to be able to live up to what is presented here. But I do not see the scope for the financial policy that we discuss that is needed to achieve our goals. Such goals are highly respected and important. You can't see how to finance this. I don't see any signs of this priorities, especially if we look at the roof. If you contemplate the narrow ceilings, 41.5% of GDP, let's say that the patient's credit share in the system is about to decrease, increase the factors below it, and promote health institutions in the country. Then the production of the land grew immensely together. This is the roof. So how's it going to be? Secretary of health and the highest. A government to uphold this government covenant? Then, too, it would be good to have a conversation with the highest level of conversation. Education minister on how to finance academic reforms, further support to the university, compete, revise models, and focus more on creative articles, engineering, and so on. But in a government contract, the highest. The current government says, by permission of the President: The university should be supported by maintaining quality and meeting international competition as cooperation and coordination between Icelandic universities and scientific institutions grow. The school system model has to be reviewed with regard to the different costs and diversity of the student group. The need for basic and high school needs to be considered so that further emphasis can be given on teaching in creative articles, programming, design and education, in parallel with a campaign in traditional articles. To meet the different needs and circumstances of students, learning will be further developed. Additional support must be given to the mother - to - mother teaching of bilingual students, in conjunction with other languages. As a graduate of a elementary school teacher and very proud of my work and my education, I take to heart what is stated in this declaration of the importance of furthering our education. But at the same time, I realize that after working in elementary schools for 13 years, which may not be a very long time, but it's some, it costs money. I know school management wants to stand there, but that's when the money exchange between state and rural society needs to be okay. It takes a conversation with the local community, that they are in charge when it comes to spending money and deciding how money goes between them so that these goals, including projects that are just on the custody of our rural society, can be done in our good school system. I would like to say, in spite of all the discussions of many times, that we have a very good school system with excellent employees. I'll let me say that, even though I'm a high school teacher. You ask me how to finance this. Will property be sold to try to finance it, since the roof places a narrow ceiling? I think it's very difficult for everyone to decide in advance and know how the system and conditions are. We are in the present, and we need to stay there, and we can be flexible if anything comes up. My time is running out. I'm not sure I'll be able to finish this talk. Then maybe I'll go to somebody else. A respectable president. The government covenant with a new government also states, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: During the past few years, there has been a large growth in transport conditions, especially as a result of the growth of tourists. In this light, the growth in transport development will be increased in all areas. Good transport is a key factor in improving habitat conditions and increasing the number of employment opportunities across the country. Emphasis will be put on improving road safety and the implementation of transport by making use of the overall variety and potential of the transport system. In this way, the transport system can serve better than anyone else in the country, and it can further achieve the objective of spreading and promoting tourism across the country. We all know, especially at the assembly we are on and do our work, that there has been a lot of debate over the lack of money into transport. I planned this 20 - minute talk, which I felt was an eternity before I went on a talk, discussing, and quoting words of the highest degree. A secretary of transportation, for the other day I had a conversation with him about transportation, and there are billions of projects that are going to be completed. But my speech is over. I don't think it's been 20 minutes, I just got up on a speaker chair. But I support their word. Senators who have spoken, this document, this financial agenda must be reexamined at the moment. The budget for further work and meditation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It gave me a fine approach to what is the point, which is the cost, and certainly the income that we are going to watch until the next five years. I agree with what. A senator said that it is unfortunate. For the next five years, members of the administrative body have no greater interest in society than they will not be able to participate in these discussions. Our Gusan came back once before. A senator for half an hour. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the charge roof. Like what? A senator came in no matter how years, well, or badly, there is always this roof on what the expenses will be. If there's something to say about the Icelandic economy, it's not necessarily a calm sea travel. See what? A senator does not specify the level of danger in this situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u176	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Kolorn's senator, Óttarsson Proppér, for a massive answer and would like to know before I answer the question, "It's too bad. " Government officials have not participated in the discussion, at least not today, I was out in the district yesterday, so I could not keep up. But I'm concerned with this fee, 41.5% of gross domestic product, because in our economy we've taken dives and variations and I'm very afraid that if we were to dive and we couldn't go up to this roof mentioned here, we'd be putting together in public service. Then I see no alternative but to get along. That's why I think it's very risky.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u177	A respectable president. That's exactly what I share. My grandfather was a farmer in the countryside, and he would have said something if I had suggested to him that he determined how much of his income he was going to use in agriculture, in livestock, in food, in all the expenses needed to run a good farm, no matter how years, never before. I think the blessed guy would just pat me nice on his head and even put sugar lumps in my mouth, but that's another story. In some way, the charge on which the charge is set was introduced, and it seemed to surprise many. I know why. A senator participated in discussions about the law at the time. This fee, it's something that's wrong. A senator recognizes that a new law on public finances was intended to be established?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u178	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. I don't remember this spending roof being in these plans. As I was saying, I'm very afraid of it. As we said before, the economy becomes floundering and mood swings, and you wonder how we are going to maintain our service level despite this dip. So will it be the only way to maintain the level of service by selling state estates, by getting the ministry done by personal contributions, by personal choice, even more part of the medical system? I feel that there are too many questions left regarding this roof set out here and how to deal with economic fluctuations. Therefore, this council proposal needs to return to the budget board so quickly. Senators are getting answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u179	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk, agreeing with her that she would turn around like the wind, was much too quickly to pass. I'd like to have a place to say. A senator as part of a minority party woman. A senator or a fourth minor body of legal committees, but the senator referred to him significantly in his speech. I'd like to read a little bit of this, with President's permission, for what? A member of the Parliament, which reads on page 1: The targets set up in the financial policy are considered unrealistic to be the result of their relationship. The next year's financial programmes are binding rules for all financial measures on the part of the rural community. A fourth lower part of criticism that the government needs to look for further cooperation on the central basis which the objective of the rural society depends on the establishment of a national financial policy, but the rural communities have hoped that this criticism will result in a review of what has been achieved. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me that, of course, it would be desirable to the highest level. The Secretary of Transport and Transport would be here with us to discuss this, i.e. Why was it so bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u180	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for a very good answer. I don't think I have time to read it, but I couldn't agree with that. A senator said that it would have been very important to do so. The Minister of Staff would be here to discuss why the situation was not better handled. I'd also like to use my time here and mention that I've been told that there really needs to be a debate, and you have to finish the discussion about the division of countries and rural society. It is very important that all partner members agree on how these factors will be introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to continue to trace only what is presented in this second fine minority party, but it says, with the permission of a president: It suggests that the government has already failed to introduce needed change management to ensure the advancement of a new government of government of government of public finance by using a single-sided authority in what was supposed to be a communication process for the benefit of all. There is an overwhelming chance that the subsidies of a country's debt will be unrealistic, and thus the expansion of government financial policy will not be maintained. If that is the case, the principles of the law will prove to be limited but planned. My fourth section emphasizes the reduction of the rural areas laid on the State Policy so that they can continue to pay off their debts at a reasonable rate and maintain the necessary level of construction. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: This government is now highly preschooled by professional activity and by good negotiations. Got it. A senator's inability to agree with such important organizations as the local government is evidence of good negotiations?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u182	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying something. It's like both of us. Councilmen at Recession and Haw. Senators Bjarts'futures have given a lot of talk about the importance of conversation and cooperation and, as it were, of course. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunnar's Ævarsdóttir points out, that's exactly what they're doing because of coming out of business, being good negotiators, and all of this. I'm not going to question it. On the other hand, when you see and hear that these contracts do not work and that is made one - sided decisions, that is, one - sided. Over the past few years, local projects have been added constantly. Not only can we increase the demands of our rural communities but we can't have conversations with them on how we're going to make money between countries and rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u183	Mr. President. That's what I want to think about. A senator sees whether he feels that this financial policy involves an inside structure in the country. If not, how is it? So a member of the United States suggests that in all the areas mentioned in her fine talk, there is a strong structure to be built? Shall we cut down? You're going to do private work, maybe with the pension fund? Hang up a roadtoll? Or should those who have banks to carry it, add resource taxes and high income taxes, and so on? See what? A senator will take this course from the time it was in the government and was preparing it and in the direction of new categories, restorations, and the bright future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u184	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the counter-sponsored. In my opinion, that's too little space for infrastructure. Especially when we see these powerful words made in the government covenant. Governments. I cannot see how to meet and stick to the government covenant according to the scope of this arrangement. I was going to discuss it in my speech earlier, but there was a lot of time left, but we need to watch the deposit of tourists to make more money in the state's budget. You can also look at changes, put on public health taxes, and change the tax system in line with what the International Cash Fund suggested and a special committee on tax reforms - I can't remember her name. That's what we're down to. During a recent campaign campaign, the senators of theize Party discussed the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now, as we all know, this policy is five years old. The five - year - old program is reviewed every year, followed by financial work, this traditional one, fall in the fall, and budgets being paid for each year. How can you tell? A senator that when we are built into a course, can the members of a body change their budget? Do senators, the Lawgivers, have a chance to make changes? What is the authority of the Lawgiver within the constitution to do so? Don't you think the budget's here at the General? Counts 'em out. A senator to be a member of the budget and financial body - a work that takes place in the fall, but money is provided for Christmas or for a New Year's Eve - should you take over and make adjustments if needed and earn money and then add more money to an urgent project?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u186	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for your re-election, my dear. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Yes, I have to say here that especially after budgeting this year, 2017, where the senators put their mark on the budget and followed the funding, I'm worried about how. Congress officials are to be able to control the money to the point where it is to be taken. Notes have been made that the lack of transparency is not easy. Parliaments and individuals to compare the budget of the older men with the budget made by a new arrangement. But that is a responsibility. Senators are looking for ways to earn money if there is no room for infrastructure. I hope everyone's down. Senators and I will focus on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u187	A respectable president. I would like to quote a report on Article 3 of the budget board, which appears on page 24. 2 of section on baseline report, by permission of the President: The list of baselines is their dictionary definition and why values should be in financial policy. The section on baseline is not an article on how these values are reached and can be carried out, no confirmation that the policy is according to the baseline values to be based on. The government's policy of paying taxes, tax policy and other government revenues is beyond the fact that it is expected to follow VLP over time. I heard at the senator's speech that she shared my concerns because similar practices were to be done. It was said that this was the fulfillment of a transport plan, so when reality came along, it was nothing but words. There was no coin for any created thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u188	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Gunnar I. Guðmundsson's blocking. That's why I'm worried about it. A senator earlier said that a budget was prepared for 2017. Councilmen that they were in the financial capacity of approved tasks. I'm afraid that if we don't have more space than expected in this policy, we might have more problems in case there's no room to react.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u189	Then I kind of wanted to roll up the other side of the same coin, a respectable president - I forgot to address. The towns of Smokeynestown and the Western Islands adopted a similar policy with their possessions and brought it into tenants. It looked very good in accounting until five years later when the owner began to raise the rent and that. They are now of the same sheep's house that rules there, and they rule at that time, as do those who rule Iceland today. Does the senator not worry that the monopoly of government sales will bring temporary beauty to members of the government and minister, but then when the Šnitibly, pardon the language, we take it when they fall, that will be left behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Guðmundsson very much for answering. I'm concerned that if you take monopolies to sell state property, sell dairy cows, and profit from them once and for all. That's what I have to say. I'm afraid that'll be the way that's going to be gone by the current highest level. A government to make the government look good if the space is gone, to attack certain projects, but the funds are gone and not to build on later ground. I sure hope that won't be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u191	Mr. President. In a speech I gave yesterday on the same subject, i.e. For example, a proposal for action on financial policy before 2017/2022, I highlighted three main points in my case. It was whether the priorities of economic policy were practical and based on a solid foundation, and I found that it was not. Then I wondered, " Why didn't they take anything into account the financial recommendations, and I thought it was strange that it wasn't done? ' Then I also wondered when it would be good to sell a bank, and it's at least my conclusion that it's not good to sell a bank once you get into that position that you need the money so that your policy can go by. Like what? The senators heard me asking questions and answering them myself. It's something like this discussion has been, the highest. President, because at the very best. Economic and economic ministers have been here for the discussion and have participated, sitting here in the councilroom, and participating occasionally in the debate, he has not been seen in the discussion today, nor any other Ministers in the Supreme Court. Government. It's really pathetic. This hurts the discussion when we, as critics of this course, stand here and just talk to ourselves. We've got to do it, actually, because there's a lot of loose ends. There's a lot of unsettled issues about this course and because it's a large, date-dating set. We are under obligation by the government to dissect and discuss it, even at the height of the case. Ministers and ministers. The members of the greater part do not see their own worth in being here and sharing in the discussion with us. Today, I would like to use my time to discuss points I didn't have time to come on. It is the climate and the link between this financial policy to the year 2022 with other huge policies that the nations of the world have set and Iceland's foreign minister signed on behalf of Iceland in Paris not long ago, which is a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prevent our planet from being fully warmed and we lose complete control of the situation. This is a serious matter, and I think it is my duty as a 21st century politician to examine all issues in the light of the Paris meeting and how we will react to conditions that have, unfortunately, been drawn up in the climate. That's why it would have been so good to have the highest power. To participate in the discussion, a minister of the Environment in the Assembly Hall, and I called it earlier today, but I have not had any answers to the question of whether or not. A minister has been informed that she was requested for the discussion. It would have been nice to have her right now to explain to me how this financial policy is in harmony with the Paris convention. You see, I don't understand. That is why most of its population is called Hysterism. The budget is that continuing economic growth is the main priority of policy development. All right. How does it rhyme with climate goals? As far as I can see, if we're going to be able to master this situation, we're going to have to work together, we're gonna have to make less production than we do right now. I would like to have an explanation of how to reach the goal of growth, but I would also like to reach the objective of the Paris meeting. I personally, if I had been writing this course, would have emphasized prosperity rather than economic growth. Of course, it has to do with the political content of this policy because economics depend on the fact that everyone in the community can have good, the prosperity is for everyone, but in order for it to work, we need strong infrastructure. Then we need a strong welfare system, and we need a strong education system. Otherwise, the welfare and education privileges of those with money will be paid for the ministry. I feel very uncomfortable that nothing is too close to the way we are going to get control of the climate in this direction. There is no analysis, there is no evidence that any of these two policies could have been considered related. If we examine the program of this meeting, which I am now afraid has something to do with over seven o'clock, then there are three matters of Congress on the program, i.e. No. 7, 8 and 9 on the environmental-related program. In fact, it's all EU rules, but it's only fine, because they all come from a narrowly defined way, some in fact, quite beyond, about some things that need to be kept in order related to the environment. This is a matter of waste management and measures against environmental pollution from a single use container for drinking products, prevention of pollution of the seas and coastal areas, and loyalty and pollution control, as is the 9th issue on climate. I'm afraid that if we're going to discuss the issues of climate and how we're going to reduce emissions in such small, limited boxes, we're not going to make any progress. That's why I call for this to be written into the big government financial policy. It has often been said that we need to plan how we will reduce emissions to the year 2030. This financial policy is scheduled for the year 2022. It'll be only eight years in the year 2030. You see, it's so fucking close to us. That is why I have to say that this is, in fact, a completely meaningless document, or even worse; that the signature of Iceland and the commitments we made in Paris, signing the Paris Convention, is a completely meaningless signature.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u192	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. I'd like to intervene in the opinion of a financial body for a proposal for a hearing on financial policy. On page 18. 10 will appear, with the permission of the president: It is expected that there is an inaccurate inaccuracies in national terms due to structural defects, agglutination of data, and the present uncertainty. As a result, it may be difficult to plan too well on a single projection and policy without considering the possibility of an alternative event. It is only as if past national forecasts have failed and that they were quite large. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he does not feel that he is being double - especially when we have been told that there is no need for all stage photos, that there is no statement about the picture in financial policy. Then I ask why. A member of the Environment: Shouldn't there be a scene here on how we react to environmental issues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u193	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I think it's a low-level policy, really so much, I don't see how it can be approved. I can't see any better than they can. Senators who come to vote for her are paying their votes, I may not say exactly into the air, but it goes pretty close because there's so little analysis available. In case of a moment. The members of the board of directors have been allowed to see some more diagnosis than we have seen here, so they have knowledge that we others do not. It would be a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u194	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I feel like a whale. This direction is based on sand, and there is a lack of information so that we can form a real view of what it involves. In fact, I'm most concerned that it has no room to deal with, for example. Climate change or any other natural problem that may confront our country will strike and cause some damage here, there is no way to expect some kind of space. Now I know that government law on public finance allows the government to reevaluate finance if something shocking happens. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me that it is rather poor practice to rely on discarding policy and to start over instead of considering how to react in emergencies, i.e. reviewing policy by creating a new document instead of having some kind of space?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u195	Mr. President. If we are going to react to it and do something to prevent global warming, we must not begin later than today to make real policy and plan it. It will be far too late to wait for cold water and, in fact, many would say that we are already in a very bad place. That argument alone makes me feel that I can push this course aside and think things over again. If we think of just a few less dramatic things like those we can handle as one nation can, like our road system, we are already on the edge of the road because there have not been enough funding in the road system for many years, so the roads have begun to drop and our interiors are breaking down. [[The president calls.]] There is another and perhaps less reason to say that this policy is not working either. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u196	A respectable president. I heard from the senator's talk that she is very interested in the matter of authority. There's a progressive document in the name of a government called Power Replace Program. That is exactly what it means to replace automobiles with large amounts of cars. Still, the financial programme says we're not going to activate for the next few years, we're just going to finish some of the continuum transfunctioners. Now, I've heard that land induction reports on a professional committee that it takes a huge additional amount of energy to drive this fleet. So the question is: Is the financial plan the lie or the energy exchange program?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u197	Mr. President. It's a bit of a fun question. You think about what plans are inside, and who are out because this financial policy tells us very little about it, really nothing. As has been stated many times, we do not see why, there is so little information on the underlying factors and analysis of the situation. But then, too, I'd like to allow myself to disagree completely with Landactivation. I'm questioning that there's so much power to be activated by an electrical vehicle, but we'll be able to make sure, and we'll have to look into what we're putting our energy into. It's important for me to put her in the battery. But I don't want to write up the fact that there's something else that needs to be activated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u198	A respectable president. According to the concluding words of 4 C.E., a minority of the committee's 3rd mention of the latter part of the committee. [ Picture Credit Line on page 2] It does not require a straggler analysis, but it does not require mathematics to see that if there is no growth in the number of tourists, if there is a slowing of housing markets or any hiccups in the branches that have advanced economic growth in the past few years there will be difficulty in implementing policy and working on the cumulative maintenance needs of society's interiors at the same time. Is it not the intention of having the march become enormous, and then finally, when the tourists no longer see the opportunity to come here, it will be time to reactivated to the infinite?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u199	Mr. President. I think it's strange to have a policy that always expects growth in everything, but it doesn't matter if it's a tourist or anything else, but it's a good point. A senator is coming with us. We cannot rely on the growing number of tourists. It can just crash. There is also another factor that we have talked about and are sensitive, I think, for many, and it is that the tourism industry also has tremendous pollution. This is part of how we should deal with climate change because we cannot overlook the fact that moving people, as pleasant as they are going between countries, is extremely contaminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u200	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. It comes into the climate, and I agree with her that there was a great improvement, and it really is necessary if they were introduced into the financial policy we're discussing here. It is very special that we cannot see how we should fulfill our commitments, such as the Paris Convention. I'd like to ask if she agrees with me that this is a significant document because we'll probably have to take this course if there's trouble, if we're just talking about our volcanoes or some natural disaster in a country that could happen, hopefully not. Isn't that a bit meaningless if there's no room to deal with if something comes up?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u201	Mr. President. I'm beginning to put my hope that this document will be meaningless because there's so many reasons why it's not to be approved. I think absolutely clear, and we have brought for it a very good argument, that it is irresponsible. I feel that this is a very serious matter, since every time governments are obliged to set a responsible course. That's definitely not the course. I find it boring that this discussion has not been interrupted and brought back to the committee because it would certainly be possible to fix it and to add in such a vast number of ways and not lacking the ideas, because it has come out of the public assembly, both today and yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u202	The president hopes that he will be forgiven only uncertain because this is where Arnardóttir and Árnadóttir'sdo are, which is, 6th. Witchest. Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, who gives an answer a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u203	V.E.G. President. I understand that this requires a measure of attention. A senator who stands here is often referred to as a year's Árnadóttir for mistakes when there is trouble. A senator goes up to the General speaking chair. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir To bring this matter into the room, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir said that it would have been very good if there had been a pause at a meeting. The legal committees to discuss clearly the issues we have been considering here today. I'd like to ask you what, too. A senator with regard to the roof set up in the financial policy that government spending must not exceed 41.5% of GDP, especially when contemplating the words that are being made. of the highest government covenant. Governments on less payment, health, education and transportation, and all of that. Does she not worry about it, and if this roof is dipped in our economic system, how should we react?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u204	Mr. President. That may be my good fortune and my bad. A senator named Lára Arnardóttir, who now owns the President, is very well spoken of by the president of the United States, whom I trust in more than anything in order to bring good language breaks and rights. So I'm starting to wonder why. Senator. Of course, you're worried about this roof because I don't understand why it's put in except -- now I'm going to be boring and suspicious -- it's put in because it's the political will of the highest. Governments to make sure that this will not be possible to strengthen the government - controlled welfare system. That's kind of the big question left in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech and wants to try to reflect on something positive in this context because it has been quite negative about this poor financial policy. Hv. A senator like me is deeply concerned about the environment and the inadequacies of state funds and the government in order to fulfill the terms of the Paris Convention in the light of this financial policy. I'll worry about them. Is it not possible to see that this financial policy is missing in some kind of ideological reference to an opportunity that Iceland offers to be a leading environmentalist, including? by building up green economy and promoting economic benefits for nature protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u206	Mr. President. I don't know if I'm mistaken for a question. A senator, but he just corrected me, or he sheds more light on it below. But because. A senator wanted to be on positive notes, but I wasn't sure if he meant it was possible to see in this policy an opportunity to do something positive about the environment. If so, I'm going to answer that to, no, I can't see. I can see at the head motions of the dog. A senator said that it was not what he meant. So he probably means it could have been entered into a course like this. It's going down now. Senator. Yes, it would have been possible because we as a nation with the benefits of having a lot of clean energy can certainly set such goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u207	Mr. President. I'm doing my research, I'd like to say, Kevin Carson, philosopher and scholar, who said that under modern Chipmunicism we couldn't afford a green economy, it couldn't be done. This recommendation has to do with the motivations of this capitalistic economy not offering that we are trying to benefit from a good environment. That is why I want to pray. A senator who wondered how we could, if we were to go to the State's financial policy, build a green economy for Iceland that would benefit both the state funds and the economic development of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-30-51.u208	Mr. President. This question and speculation that the capitalistic economy and green policy cannot go together, of course, is directly related to what I came into my speech, that economic growth is really a prerequisite for this financial policy. But economic growth, if we look at how the economy of the 19th and 20th centuries and the rest of the 21st century always goes on growing, doing more, producing more, is in total opposition to green policy and climate. There's a conflicting point of view, so I don't think it's working. Now, Mr. President, I must admit that I have forgotten a question. A senator, but I'm sorry that it's now 6:30 p.m.
