ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u1	A respectable president. The government has high - ranking trust in the community, 92% of the people trust that good organization; this was shown in my brief speech yesterday, while 22% trust the General Assembly. That's a big worry. Is it humanly possible to change this? Is this something that the Council needs to live with, and is it similar among other nations? The people call for a steady rise in the Council. One of the big cases before the last election was to change the shape of the council, improve practice, and improve trust. The senators who met at the end of the election described their will in that same direction. Is there any evidence that the senators are making progress? Of course, I'm newborns at the council and every day of experiences and new experiences. In time, I'm amazed at my work in this 63 - man village, where seven families live. Adolescents, customs, practices, and textures, even dress. Last night's discussion with the highest. A typical case in which a riot occurred and everything went mad because of the communication process of the European Commission and the legislature. Such words may not improve the image of the council in the minds of the common people. The standard of action or efficiency of the council is not high, but it may not be relevant here at all. The organization is peculiar, and members of Congress are making it difficult to prepare well for big issues. A schedule is set in shame, sometimes under the night before the meeting day. This is a repeated complaint. I realize that this is about an ancient and dignified institution with unique history, which still needs to answer the call of the times and also a reliable image of stability. A competitive antagonist is promoting good and efficient management, a ideological streamline control exists. Is that something for the Council? A respectable president. Committees for the Council have been appointed for less reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u2	A respectable president. Last week I met with the media in the Western Islands, the News, and the island.net, for a meeting of people, and we discussed transportation. There were 400 people there, and some observed him at community centers. There is a great deal of heat in the Western lsles over the transport available today while there is a Geppetto. Of course, it is subject to every study to get a small ferry with one machine and a small transport capacity to sail between the country and the island, to be given an access to it. Of course, who can think of, offering 5,000 human society, the largest plant in the country, to make such trips in the last few weeks that they have been virtually nonexistent? It must be necessary for the Aegeans to come to us at the High General Assembly to bring the issues back, and that this will not happen again when there's a Shepherd back. During this large meeting there were loud demand for longer-term improved transport and changes in the transport and cost that already exist in the island. At this large meeting, it was agreed that when a national harbor is sailed to a minimum of six missions a day, it was accepted that when research is turned off at the Pacific Harbor with the intention of improving the port sealing so that the harbor can be used as a full - blown harbor, the cost of going to the Pacific Harbor would be the same as it was for the land crew. That's a very rich requirement. And that the trade of the ferry will be in the hands of locals and profited by business to reduce transportation costs, increase services, and thus directly return to the locals. We need to listen to the Western eyes and to the reasonable demands they set for transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u3	Madam President. Many things have changed in the world in recent years and with attitudes that we thought were back in the past. The weather, the extremes that are of the roots of ethnicism, and the fear of those who are simply not like us, is becoming more and more intense. On the other hand, a person who is guided by fear is conscious of nothing at all and seldom responds to reason and reason. At the same time, they grow on the edge of an ace that is supported by some stroke of truth or truth, it is easier to find any course of prejudice, both at home and in the world. Freedom of opinion and expression is used as a pretext to spread hatred and wrong views, but it is an attitude that has no basis for supporting or extending a closer examination. Then there are the persecutions that are now taking place in Chechnya - just an uninformed form of the one that results in uninformed speech. Rather than resorting to violence or other extreme means of promoting education, criticism, and tolerance, such hatred must be contradicted only in the case of the cow. The only weapon mankind needs in the fight against extremes is argument, although humans can certainly disagree and overcome with sound reasoning. We should always be tolerant of people, but we likewise ought to be quick to say that they do not fall into the trap of unwise thinking. During the days, I was delighted to be present when the newly elected president of France addressed his supporters in the first place after the election. There the French chose to reject the extremes and half - truths. Each time, we are under obligation to do the same, showing due respect for the people we earn to be governed by reason, tolerance, and little love.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u4	Madam President. V.E.G. In the early days, the minister of education said in the Frontline that those who criticized his plan to have his personalised Technical School take over the School of the High School of Years without diagnostic work would have to answer the challenges facing the high school system. V.E.G. A minister does not make the same requirement when he is called upon to support this operation, which I feel is preposterous, whether it is viewed by a professional or business. What challenges do high schools face today? They are faced with providing as much access as possible to study as possible, with high school cornerstones built all over the country. Shortening study classes results in the reduction of students in book studies, leading them to the greatest changes in pure literature schools, temporary natural declines in newborns, an increased need for cooperation with smaller schools to provide a broad range of educational opportunities, either by local or telecommunications, to work against the dropage of students, and to promote education. V.E.G. A minister of education would like to assist the higher schools to cope with these challenges by uniting large schools in Reykjavík and letting the principal school of technology and now extending a wide variety of studies in technology, taking over a good business at 900 students who offer studies to students in the medical field, as well as serving 1,300 students for long - term studies. Hopeless to ask what is the highest. Minister up and running? If the change takes place for the next year of school, neither students nor teachers have the potential to respond by choosing another school for study or to work. The staff's rights are disloyal. If a minister acts, it is vandalism at high school rather than support the challenges of the system and is so important for individuals and academic levels in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u5	A respectable president. I'd go for it. paritaprevir The Einar Brynjólfsson of Brynphelf, who ever wanted happiness because of the glory he's received within the party of Porita. I've been working with what. A member of two committees is a careful and reliable man. Yesterday I made the attendance of Pirata at a panel meeting for a conversation in a bathroom, saying that I'm not going to make it my Senate job to be a clock for any other council. I have another ambition for my career in Congress. But I do not deny that I have at times been hurt by this debate when my shoes are made to be ill - mannered, or have a bad part in discussions at the council, especially when you get into it, as in a discussion of financial plans, to lie under such charges and then talk for almost an empty hall at the end of the night. As far as this is concerned, the Piratars have practiced somewhat traditional government opposition and I do not comment on this because I may have been a fairly traditional member of the management team, but I remind you that in many cases at the council, Piranians own allies, e.g. In many ways it comes to Internet freedom, drug abuse, and personal rights. I'm one of their allies, so I recommend it to Pirata, because it's been an idea to call this movement, Pirate movement, globally left liberalism, that they will start a new slogan at the council: a memory of the President's conference board and more liberalism. Then they can count on me to be with them on that journey. [[Up front.]] - Just come over, you come over, Birgitta.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the funding of the university system. V.E.G. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson described this in his debate at the council in January. That education is the key to the future and to success in innovation needed to improve education. But what has the government done to strengthen the university system? In 2014, the scientific and technical advisers set out to make contributions to our country's university education closer to what we know in our neighboring countries, i.e. OECD averages and, on the other hand, average productions in the North countries. That goal was to be reached by the end of 2016. The aim of the Scientific and Technical Council for that. A year, though, has not yet been reached, and as is the situation today, the university system is now about 8 billion. This week the head of the University of Iceland claimed that the school had trouble recruiting new teachers in some school departments because of lack of money. The university has, for example. not in recent years, professors could interpret teachers in Icelandic and geology. The situation has become so bad that it uses a lot of teaching and good study at school. Icelandic and geological are articles that both have special meaning for Icelandic culture and history and are not taught in other universities of Iceland than the University of Iceland. Government schools that are strong are best able to ensure all access to university, regardless of their location, economic status, or social status. Such a society is thus a more equal society. Now we have to make up our minds. Do we want to have a university education at a Kingdom university that is competitive international? Or do we want to make the State College money, so young people in Iceland do not always have access to university education that meets international demands?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u7	Madam President. Being free is one of the most important rights we have. This court is even. Enforced in the Constitution of Iceland, the European Convention of Human Rights and the International Convention on Political and Civil Rights. I would like to protect this important court in Iceland from my involvement in the council's activities today. The occasion is Cast light's consideration of the Supreme Court's decision that the State has violated the requirements of the Constitution which prohibits torture and other inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. The government did so when it shut a man in his 60's in solitary confinement for eleven days at a police station. It is the first time that the State is judged for violations against this arrangement of the Constitution. Despite this, there are no doubt much more frequent violations of this law, which insulation is often more frequent here and last longer than in our neighboring countries. This high frequency indicates that the state of justice in Iceland does not have sufficient respect for the freedom of the people suspected of criminal punishment. But there are other groups who do not have sufficient protection for the state of justice when it comes to their right to freedom. In particular, there are people with mental illness who, as I have been told during this council, may be removed from their freedom without sufficient relief, justice protection, or judicial rights. Thus, it is more important that the financial programme of this government as a point of view not stand to validate an additional book of the UN Convention on the prohibitions of torture and other inhuman and inhuman treatment or punishment, OPCAT another name, during the period covered by the UN Convention, or up to 2022. We need to ensure an independent surveillance on the treatment of those who suffer any kind of destabilization on the part of the government no later than today if we are serious about protecting the rights of all of us here for freedom, and only then freedom from torture will be maintained. There is another distressing situation in the state of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about avalanche control. In evaluating the risk of avalanches, there are only two ways in Iceland, one on the other, of property and of avalanches. The rules don't seem to allow any other means. In Iceland, tsunamis first started to some extent over two decades ago, and strangely, they will not be seen in countries where avalanches have a long history, such as. In the Swiss Alps, avalanche studies have been conducted for over 85 years. In Switzerland, the most common avalanche arts are an accelerator. Abruptures are steel frames to bind snow cover and prevent avalanches from starting down the inhabited earth. Such building blocks are usually high above the surface and not too visible in nature. A defense garden is used to channel avalanches, slow down, and stop avalanches. They need considerable land space and irreversibly change the landscape, but their advantage is that the cost is lower than the cost of deconstruction. I want these regulations revised and that environmental protection issues will be gained when avalanche control is built in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u9	President. I've had enough. I long for this new Iceland that we had started to build together, where the first rod of the future and society that was not involved in sobriety, greed, and specialism could be seen, where the common people would drive down to the east and not give up until justice was achieved. These people were not waiting for leaders to pull themselves in. These people were just like I had enough and had nothing to lose. They wanted corrupt rulers out. It hurt and hurt. Many wanted new soil because the root of corruption cannot be eradicated by cutting away the inheritance. This root is a root that cannot be removed except by new soil. We never got this new soil, despite bringing it to the gates of Generalis full of promises of New Island. No, the greater part of the Generals stopped New Island at the doorways and planted grisly gold seeds and worms with mistrust. New Iceland is no more. The soil is decomposed, malnourished, and soon the more social health sector will be given a hand cut and glatlin fish will grow out where nothing is given to those who have nothing, only to profit. The future we experience in a word of life is gone, and I can no longer say that I look forward to another repetitive cry of right and left traffic, and all that needs to be fixed is some controversant conversation. That's deeper. This dust that I stand on the inside of power is like a pool full of deep complications wrapped around the feet of a young assembly, and they all fall as one with their faces in the oxygenless mud and choke on their own manicity. I've had enough. And what am I supposed to do? I ask myself. Words are swords. They are mightier than swords, many say. So I'm going to make a statement today, and I hope they can open up to all this foolishness. Let's stop responding and start making New Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u10	Madam President. I wish I was as poetic as my partner, okay? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I'm going to make up the subject once again of the High School of Polyglomeration at the Dates and Technologies School. This matter burns on the public, in the nation of Iceland. I can sense it wherever I come from and not just in the environment I'm from, the progressive environment, but in many places, that people are so worried about me. The minister of Education claims to be involved, i.e. with possible fusion, response to a reduction in the number of students. I show that students start growing again after two or three years in Icelandic high school. I point out that there has been no consultation with employees, students, or parents of underlawd students. There is no future policy here. Now it is May 16th. Students in high school are in the last place to complete this semester or to study, those in that place in their lives, and to shrink to students with white heads, purple heads, gray heads, all kinds of heads, city - and - house difficulty. It's a joy. But there's a lot of uncertainty in these games. The minister has said that this week he will receive evidence and that on that record he will base his decision. I pointed out that after two weeks of enrolling the students, I wondered if students who intend to enroll in the High School of the Year are aware that there may not be any High School at the millennium until the next fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u11	Madam President. I had a problem. I can see a certain situation in which members of the Parliament operate in governments, administrations, or committees that employ funds. If I wanted to talk about it or compare it with anything else, I can imagine we wouldn't accept a judge being placed in the government of Rark or Istavia or so. A minister would certainly not be put there, why a senator? Who should I ask? To whom should I have a conversation here at a council on policy issues about this, this failure in the tribunal of power? Can't I have a special conversation with some minister? I'd probably just have to talk to the council president, but the council president is not participating in verbal conversation so that the President's Board is not relevant. I am informed at the council's office that the work of the council is somehow designed for this conversation, where members of the Parliament can talk to one another. I'd like to make it up because it's a minimum; the council's work should be at least half an hour twice a week, etc. This means that we can have more discussions like this. We could have a special meeting for an hour, maybe, about the job of the council, where all members of the Parliament could come and talk about it. Is it true that when our role in handling money is spent, committees, and governments are being given money? It is very strange, for example, that the chairman of a budgetary committee is on a government that distributes money. If, as a financial committee, we would like to inquire about how money was spent, whether it was spent on or not, on that member of the council, to disseminate from his position on the committee and become a guest and explain the matter? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u12	Madam President. I'd like to talk to you about what. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, director of the professional trade committee, related to the results of the saying system. The consequences have been seen over the years in various ways, both through the training of fish workers, as occurred at Aquilin, where HB Grandi left dozens of fish workers, people who had worked there for many years. It was not a major factor, since the security and security of these people are upset, as are the safety of commercial workers around the country and those who build their produce on fishing and processing and living in the sealands. We know that this has been the result of the exodus, and it has been criticized over the years, but I feel that somehow it is a simple matter. There's talk for some time, and then she'll be fine, and there's nothing you can do about it. No government has had the courage to deal with this problem. That's when I heard it. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon said that he was prepared to examine the consequences of the fishing system on the expansion and compression in some way. Of course, the independent party has enormous responsibility for this system and the consequences for the country's settlements with people. Everyone who wants to know knows and see knows. Now, it may be time for the group that has spent this system with their mouths, which, in turn, has taken over and really makes the changes in the system, to take into account employees who have created the wealth that these companies are living in today, these giants who run most of the resources in the country and make them profit, that they have some obligation, that they have some obligation, that there are some conditions for spreading resources, built up to gain rights and security of the people in this article. We own this resource together, but not the big giants like HB Grandi, who will only threaten to take their processing out of the country if they are taken onto the carpet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u13	Madam President. The best thing to do is to make sure that the fishing system we live in today's world is basically good, meeting the two main requirements we have to meet, on the other hand, sustainable fishing and sustainable use of this resource as we know best, and, on the other hand, it is designed to maximise the overall success of this industry. There are two questions we need to answer about this system. One of the fishing costs, which are not relevant to this subject at Aranesp, which I follow, in what way we want to organise the resource use fee; the fishing fee as it is; the fishing fee, higher or less or any other system, we need to answer that question. Then we have to answer, and it has something to do with the case of the Skaganans, whether or not, in what way we're going to put them in harmony with the spirit of the fishing laws and even direct articles in that law. How will we conduct these matters? Now it is that the most built-up we believed was at hand in this law, i.e. ... witha partner's prenuptial on fictitures, is not available according to the Supreme Court's verdict. Then the lawgiver must answer: Does he want it to be, and do we want to turn it into that? So, the other thing, because the best source of resources had not been able to save much from Skaga because nobody was selling anything, it was just moving to the process: Do we want to establish some kind of structure in the process as well? These questions need to be answered by the law, and I'll take part in this discussion. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u14	Madam President. What I am going to discuss may not surprise anyone. I would like to find out what is being done for the Acquired place because of decision-making in HB Granda's T-shirts. The next Friday committee has a commission designed to pay for fishing in the fishing field. I have heard of the words of my colleagues on a professional committee that it is considered undesirable to discuss factors other than fishing while the group is working. From a news transfer to judge a service group as the highest. The minister of the Þorgerður of Lord Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is about to appoint it for himself, and this is the particular opinion of the members of the Independence Party, that if that group is to yield a conclusion that they dislike, or there are some fundamental changes in the seabed, it is to be dropped only in the council. What is the purpose of this transliterated group? If the goal is to devote the average of the present fishing system to, it is rather shortsighted. So I pray to my members. Pirat's Coastal Fishing Channel leads to a pro board. By making it legal, we take a big step in correcting one of the biggest problems in our fishing system. Thus, we make a practical step for small projections to get a course in another unjust system. We make it possible for those who have suffered the worst from transport of resources to attract smaller outputs, and this approach grows from the ground of grass that this animallike approach to fishing management has left behind. I have seen in the media that many of us, on the contrary, have been able to conclude the conclusion on Acdéri. Why not do something other than strike at a rider? Why not do something other than breathe in the media? Why don't the General take the root of the problem? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u15	V.E.G. President. Before this assembly, a council decree is made by the Agency's team that an emergency highway in Reykjavík will be reassigned. This conclusion we concluded back then, knowing that it was still possible to ensure the greater security of the people of the land by opening it. Fundamental officials of the mayors and airport friends have been up - to - date in this matter, suggesting solutions that all stakeholders can enjoy. They have been rejected. Solutions turn, including to avoid the barrier to rescue. V.E.G. President. Yesterday's morning paper showed that there was no license to close the emergency course, as the risk assessment for its closure was not carried out. Visiting and airport friends have taught that in the conclusion of the Association agency since June 1, 2015, Istavia's risk assessment report due to the planned shut-down of the emergencyway, they will include: until risk assessment does not affect the whole country's flying system, the Almanic emergency system, or the impact on emergency transport, and the need to make a special risk assessment if it is to close the circuit. There is the conclusion of the International Aeronautics Institute that the basis for the calculation of a practical factor was wrong in the case of a report made by the U.S. professional flier, a letter sent it to a transport minister in mid - March. V.E.G. President. The work on this important matter seems to have been below all the caves. No contact with a special authority in the air safety field has been heard. For example, is it not a reason to listen to the question of the security committee of Icelandic professional pilots? Or are we going to make such a decision, as if too many others, to resort to specialists only when it is convenient? Then I'll ask, "Who's good for it?" and when, tops? President? Would it not be quite convenient for all of us to put our safety first and to care for the interests of everyone in the country? I urge the minister and the proper authorities to examine the situation quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u16	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion at the highest. Social Ministry on this urgent issue of poverty in Icelandic society. In recent weeks, discussions about poverty may have been fueled by both wings as a result of radio programs on the Kingdom News of poverty. This is not a new debate, however, because we have figures of poverty, and we have recent numbers from UNICEF in Iceland that 9.1% of children in Iceland suffer a shortage, especially when it comes to housing. 9.1% of children means 6 you. children and suffer from some 1,600 children what is called severe deficiency. When it is noted in the numbers that a large number of these children live in an uncertain home, cannot afford to celebrate their birthday, do not engage in leisure activities, and so on. Poverty steals dreams and hopes for these children, as a 12 - year - old boy in the capital area put it. But poor people are not just children. We have poor people in all age groups. It is enough to look at the lowest wage, disability and pensions and to compare them with the services of the Ministry of Health, which clearly shows that these lowest payments are a problem. The Department of Social Affairs published a report last year covering what has been called extremely poor, how it was measured in Iceland. Fortunately, in recent years the proportion of those considered to be severely low has declined, but it is still shocking to see how the majority of the population's cut off by the two lowest income gaps in the community, which are more frequent among the nonfunctional population, i.e. who are unemployed or poor or elderly, and are more frequent in renters than in others. And there was a greater growth in foreign cities than in Icelandic citizens after a collapse. It matters in a community where we have all this wealth we know about, where we have all these opportunities, that we who work at the Council make sure that everyone lives on equal occasions. When we discuss poverty, we cannot let go of the cause. When I look at the society that we live in and the system we live in, I must conclude that we are living in a system that promotes discrepancies. It is sufficient to mention the tax system, for in recent years the tax load has been lifted from the richest, the largest, but it has gained its weight on less income groups. It is enough to include the wealth tax and the food tax. We also live in a system where social housing has been put on the market, causing ordinary people, much less poor people, to have trouble getting a roof over their heads, yet defined as human rights. Let us also consider that in recent years, the patient's payment has increased in our system, although legal adjustments have now been made to ensure a roof on the patient's payment, which should be welcomed. But we also live in a system where people over 25 years of age have been made more difficult to pursue from 2014 onward. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, although not all of these lawsuits are under him, he is a social minister, how he intends to oppose poverty, how he believes the public to oppose poverty. I'm asking for housing support. It worries me to see that in the current financial program of the council, government housing is expected to decrease over the next few years, down to a third billion in the coming years. I'd like to remind you of what I said earlier: Children's lack is the greatest in the area of housing, and the most limited is in the middle of tenants, so we have to watch the housing system and we have to watch social solutions. I'm asking the highest. Ministers for the terms of enforcing and the elderly. We have the position that large groups of disability and the elderly will be paid under 300 of you. The minimum wage in this country should rise to 300 fars. K. next year. However, these groups pay their taxes and duties to the community. We have to look at how we can improve the progress of these groups, for we see black in white as we examine the priorities of consumption, a strategies, that are important for these groups, each dollar. Then I just want to mention what I said before, when we're talking about a normal part of life, sharing in leisure activities - here are groups that don't even have food for when the month passes. There are other things. I mention the amount of unemployment improvements, I mention the period of unemployment that is being cut down on financial and otherwise. According to my knowledge, there is a poverty stain on rich society such as Iceland and the government should have a clear view of how poverty should be eliminated. The government should be prepared to pick up the money needed to strengthen our welfare system and the improving system so that no one needs to live in poverty in such a rich country as Iceland, so that all children will have the same opportunity, no matter what circumstances they are born in. [[The president calls.]] Such a community we can be proud of, Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Ministers to provide a vision of these matters, for I'm sure that here at the General Assembly we can join in the operation to eliminate poverty from the Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u17	Madam President. First, I want to thank the advocate for this important discussion. I think that we can all agree that poverty, no matter how small it may be, is too much poverty in our society and we all have an easy chance of joining in this disaster. Of course, what matters in this context is what has been happening to us. We are very well - versed in all our standards. In recent years, the level of money has increased substantially. Similarly, the value of low wages has increased beyond the general cost of money and has resulted in improvements in the lowest wage in the recent years. The objective is that next year's conventions increase minimum financial values or minimum income insurance for both the pension and the disability pension to 300 of you. K. like a minimum labour market wage. It all makes a huge difference in improving the position of this poorest group. It is true, however, that the two key covariates when it comes to poverty are just what our health and housing are and, of course, the level of employment. It is important to take action. It would be appropriate to note, on the other hand, the measures taken by the government, both those already implemented and those planned for housing, i.e. The structure of the social living system or of the so - called tenure that the government has decided to extend funding in order to further increase this development. This structure began with the development of collective agreements in the 2015 labour market and is intended to continue through the period of the current national financial programme so that this will be based on a range of 3,300,600 apartments per year into that system. I think it's very important to think of the future development of such a system. I agree with what has been said here that it was a fundamental error when social housing was sold out of the system that had been built up at the time. Such a system must always be available. It also needs to be aware of the way we support the most money - rich individuals in both rent and purchases, especially when we see that it is just the tenure market that makes the most difficult money, especially if there is some failure in earnings, temporary unemployment, temporary health problems. People who live in a rented market are affected more strongly than those who live in their own homes. Therefore, I think the emphasis on the increased share of tenures in a housing market is a miscommunication. While flexible resources and selection may have to be needed, this does not change the use of substances that have existed for years, and decades have eventually provided considerable savings and a stronger status of people to cope with fluctuations in their survival from one time to the next. Although it is true that it is proper and important to have the flexibility, it is very important not to forget how much protection does eventually involve our own housing. We'll see, for example. When it comes to older citizens, how much difference is there between the status of those who live in their own homes and those who still live in a rented market at that point? In international contrast, we are doing well when it comes to a measure of poverty. We do well when it comes to measured scale. In recent years, we have enjoyed a great deal of prosperity. During this eco-efficiency period, with this high financial gain, the standard Gini score has increased and is the greatest, if not the highest, in the OECD state. Similarly, the number of those who live in an acutely poor environment is reduced, but that is, of course, always so that any child who has very poor social isolation is too much, as the child's reputation is. Of this, all of us can agree. As we look at factors outside the market, a new system of payment is very important. This system must continue to develop and prevent health problems, which are the second major cohesion of poverty, can lead to such serious economic setbacks for individuals and families. The success of the production of a new system of credits is of utmost importance, but it is also a major factor in developing that system. We must want to cover the overall medical costs, whether in the case of physical or mental health problems. This is where I've been very close, and maybe I'll come to another part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u18	A respectable president. It's good and good to talk about money, averages, and so on, but I think it's really important to understand what poverty is. I have personally experienced poverty in my life, and in the minds of people, thoughts such as: I own 500 bucks. every day for the rest of the month if I don't do anything else, just for food. Don't be a toothache, don't be a hole. It takes to see a doctor, but maybe if I don't buy the medicine, I don't need it. I've got to work with school, sort of get myself some. The effects of poverty are so subtle, not merely that you have little money but that it makes you more expensive. We'll be more expensive, we'll have to take longer loans. The risks of borrowing are greater. There are, however, many benefits we have in Iceland. There is little difference between the highest and the lowest pay. That's good. I have personally experienced being able to work up the limit where I had as little money as an agent at school. There I would still want to be if I had a good salary there, but there's nothing I can do about this process, going to a better job, taking more study, and working up that ladder. It's not going to happen automatically, it's really hard. But that doesn't take much. The difference between having to worry constantly about whether you have money for food at the end of the month or for bills and not having to worry about it - there's really little difference between monthly rates. One of the problems is the poverty traps that we have in our systems. [[The president calls.]] Pirantics have talked about looking at a conditionless forward. There we may be able to free people from poverty traps.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u19	V.E.G. President. It is a special matter now to be talking in the Assembly Hall about poverty when perhaps all the standards indicate that we are the best at all. Not that humans should not talk in general about those who are in need; of course, we should always discuss this. It's a bit of a special time point. When you remember, you go back, I've experienced that this discussion comes up every ten years. And why did she come all of a sudden? Yes, it will exist around an institution still like the socialist party where they somehow believe that... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u20	A lack of respect for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u21	No, it's not, I'm just saying, why is she now? [[For example, consider: Cause and result.]] [[Consider: Should be every day.]] No. [[He's got some bad people going.]] Of course, it just works on you, like an opportunity to communicate now. [[Up front, up, up, up.]] That's the way it is. [[For example, consider: What are you doing?]] I'm just telling you, I'm telling you what it's like because it's this religion that you still find here in the audience. [[The point is, shouldn't people be poor?]] No. [[The point is, just deny it.]] Let me give you the speech. You're very sensitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u22	President has to ask. Councilmen making noises.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u23	You guys are very sensitive. It is this belief in many people in this hall that, where things are going well, there are powerful careers, energy, and profits, being taken from the others, and we are making them poor. It's the substance of the discussion, you can feel it. This does not change the fact that there is always a particular group that we need to think about and be careful every time it becomes for some reason of something between a ship and a dock. [[The president calls.]] Let's take the discussion of how we can work with them instead of always discussing the matter that there are some bad people here who take the money away from us, the poor. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u24	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator, a advocate of this important discussion. Although we have a more efficient job life and figures, in many cases it is our duty here to focus our sights on the number of deserts. It has shown that those who live in poor health are mostly out - of - work, desperate, elderly, and tenants. It has been observed that tenants are the most likely to live in need. Therefore, I am deeply concerned that housing support should be reduced during the financial period, i.e. Until the year 2022, but according to a national budget, I can see as much as 3 billion dollars. less money in 2022 than it is now. I also declare my concern that the next year's year's round of disability will be in the financial program. I'm concerned about how slow the disability pay will go up in the next few years, but according to the Commission's review of the Government's budget, the pay of disability will rise to 288,000 in 2022. I think it's very important to consider a system change of the tax system in line with what the Agency's Parliamentary Party suggested in the conduct of the last election, where we look at lower taxes and watch lower taxes on lower groups and intermediate groups and that we add child support to each child and that we get one of the best groups in our good society. But I'm gonna end up at the place I started: It's always very important to us and our responsibility to look to the group that has a foot in the community and to consider and take action that needs to improve their interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u25	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor for a very important and very important discussion. I agree with many things she's been talking about here, and I'm not going to repeat her words. Poverty is not merely a lack of economic goods, possessions, money, and the consequences of unemployment. It is equally important to focus on lack of social quality, lack of physical and mental health, fear, anxiety, violence, and poor self - image. When people experience a lack of opportunity to influence their own lives and the community in which they live, poverty is particularly painful. It is my opinion that everyone has the right to live with dignity and respect. A seminar raised questions about how the minister favored his use of poverty in Iceland and how he felt that the public could most effectively oppose poverty. It is my opinion that we should ask primarily how we can identify the root causes of the problem and how and where differences arise in our society. In this context, then, it is reasonable to ask whether there is as much attention as economic and spiritual poverty as there is in spiritual and social poverty. We have an extensive welfare system in Iceland that offers social services, school services, health care, and care for disabled, elderly, desperate, and child - welfare programs. It is my opinion, as I have said before, and will say again, that interaction and function between these systems is the key to working against poverty, and we must not let poverty continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u26	A respectable president. The book Poor People by Tryggvi Emilsson came out in 1976 and created trouble in the community. The author, close to 80 years of age, told of his youth, his greed and his poor interests, his great poverty, and his effect on him as a child and as an adult. The stories of Tryggvi fell to a rocky earth by those whom he mentioned, questioned his descriptions, saying that the writer often reflected his experiences in many areas. Today, poverty is tangible in our society, and we are still inclined to minimize these reproaches. Although we face this fact every day in various forms, we find it hard to recognize it. These are Eva's dirty children. Poverty affects all who live in that lot and for many lifetimes, leaves an experience and an arrow that will not be wiped out. Many, though not all, find this lesson to be a lesson for them to work out in an upbuilding way. One of us who has worked here has experienced poverty and poor skin material and should be in the palm of our hands to make changes. Others know this merely by word of mouth, even believing that it should be this way and is normal. They may feel sorry for you. Therefore, we must never bow down to one another. Poverty causes discrimination, breeds inequities, and can promote violence and riots in communities. We can eliminate poverty, these are not laws of nature. What is needed is humanity, rejecting predestination, focusing on the common good. We've been dealing with the problem of poverty in Iceland for decades, including ... atthelaw'sfield. Sometimes we have a slight basis, but circumstances are a disgrace today. Thousands of children live in poverty in the vast world, there is plenty of work, enough money. Still, relief agencies have failed to provide assistance. The elderly live in poor economics, the children's families struggle in banks, and the leftover sizes are left over. [[The president calls.]] Governments have improvements in their hands. We can do better than that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u27	Madam President. It is clear that Iceland is among the richest nations in Europe. The economic situation is in effect so that no resident in Iceland should have to live in poverty - if the quality was properly divided. But this is not a trial, unfortunately. Old reports and new reports confirm that poverty is a fact in Iceland. There are poor people in Iceland, there are poor children in Iceland, babies of flesh and blood, not just numbers on paper, and now is the right time to discuss this because of this fine economic situation. In Iceland, poverty can be eliminated. With ambitious policies, decisions, and measures, governments can prevent poverty from occurring. Poverty is a political decision, and it takes political courage to eliminate it. This is hardly a sign of great ambition, as shown on page 18. 332 in the State budget, where it is expected that by 2022 4% of children in Iceland will still live in households that lack economic quality and that 8% of children will then live in households below low income limits. You can certainly do better here. They have to fight off inequities and class distinctions. They need to make sure that everyone has the same right, same access to the basic services in the community. We have to free the basic health and education services back. I say again because there are only four or five decades since poor people in Iceland could live in a safe place under construction, they could go to the doctor and to the hospital without having to pick up their supplies, and they could send their children to school. [[The president calls.]] What the hell happened on our watch? We can do better than that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u28	Madam President. I want to start by thanking you for this discussion here today. The discussion involves the need for urgency and encouragement to work harder in the fight for social situations, where people are actually enabled to get up out of poverty. We are to build a society in which everyone has the opportunity to change their situation is the poor society in which people do not get caught in a poverty trap. That's where we're supposed to head, and that's where we're headed. While we live in Iceland, we are generally well - off in international comparison, it is clear that work is still being done. The house - to - house affairs are a major part of the problem, but housing and rent prices have developed in a way that vulnerable, low - income groups find it difficult to establish appropriate housing or home. It's a job to do. That work has already begun. Although it is clear that with the ever - increasing demand for working abroad, it is a challenge to meet that need. Needs that only grow with each year and each month based on figures about the growth of tourism, jobs that need just a number of hard work to do. When the development is such, when we are in a captive position to build an apartment building for an increasing number of people, and much less for the new population, at the same time as the demand for working hands, there is a situation where some employers might be tempted to find unacceptable apartment solutions to obtain workers. Foreign workers are at a high risk here, but this is the group who may not know his rights and how to pick him up. We are already seeing signs of this happening and reports of people who have even had to live in in ineligible places in industrial homes. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and ask a minister how he appreciates the scope of this problem, how it is handled, who is responsible for this surveillance, and whether anyone has the ability to handle it. [[The president calls.]] Is it reasonable to assume that the government will work on this problem with the solutions of the Minister's Housing Group?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u29	President. I began my first involvement in political activity when I participated in the Humunist struggle to establish the Adolescent matter on a program here in Iceland before elections in 1999. We are rich, but we live in a land where there are so many who lack so much. Very many people have a lack of money to make sure that people cannot afford basic basic needs, such as going to the dentist, buying clothes on their children, or just having food for the rest of the month if a tire explodes on the car. The most important groups in need of our support are placed under so - called crescent restrictions. Nothing can be done to get out of that straitjacket. There is nothing to be done to get out of poverty. I remember in early days when I was out of work, when the Internet company I was working for went over, that I would have a Brazilian, and that I would have a social security number, or a credit number, because I was going to try to work on the unemployment fees, and yet it would be detracted. But it wasn't allowed, so I had to go back to the social security number. I was not to be rescued, either had to be completely out of work or had a job that was unacceptable. We're still talking about the same things. For some reason, looking at this financial program is as if there is not enough money to hold out basic services. Those who especially need to think that it is not very expensive are those who are poor. We need to start working on these things in a whole way, or we're always trying to put holes in a handmade system. [[The president calls.]] Let's stop the gimmicks right now. I challenge the highest. Minister to start doing something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate for this important discussion that is held at the Senate Hall today. It is clear that poverty in Iceland is a fact, and no matter what we think of it, there are too many who suffer from poverty and poverty for different reasons. Our mission is poverty, intolerance, and poverty, which chews society inside. We must face the problem and deal with it. Our task is to achieve the best of those who are desperate, especially those who are younger. It is up to us to complete the work assessment agreement, as requested by the Committee of Peter, but the Quantum finally rejected it and thus did not have the same terms as they could otherwise have done, where there is still a dollar in question. It's important that we finish this deal as soon as possible at the next year so they can join the ranks of those who don't have more than 300. K. ... ingraduated. In a few countries, Iceland is equal to anything we want to do better, that everyone can have a home that then votes. We also passed a law at the General Assembly on a general apartment. It has a period of rent, so the group would do well to rent a place in which to pay. The rent in that law is 25% of income. Homing and health matters are the most important part of these people. It is important that we individually, all of us, have a responsibility for our own lives and health and future, and help people to self - help and social activity in the community. But to point to one another and say that happiness is a failure and poverty in Iceland is something to be taught by someone - I ask: Don't we have to look at ourselves and ask, " What are we going to do to help others? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u31	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion, it's very important. We need to work together to fight poverty in Icelandic society. In an analysis performed for the welfare department, it was found that housing market status and health status were of utmost importance in the event of poverty. Moreover, homemaking itself is important, especially for single children, and single parents with children who were in most danger of living in poverty. Therefore, it is of great importance that we agree here during the last terms of a new housing system, the general housing system, which is just thought to support rural society and other free partners, to build up housing for people, as they will have to pay no more than 203/425% of their income when other housing services are taken into account. On the other hand, I would like to encourage the minister to recommend a draft proposal that was available before the council, but it was not achieved with regard to family policy, which is exactly how we can be more supportive with families, and with regard to other arrangements that the Department of Health has made in the case of poverty. There I would like to point out TINU's experiment, a proposal from Reykjavíkurburg, and the Department of Traffic went under, and we found funds to strengthen. I think it is particularly important to continue this assignment. Government budget proposals that the plan is to make changes in child development, and there are other suggestions proposed by the welfare department. There are, however, no financial contributions to make these changes. The cost will be high, and it is urgent that the secretary provide funds for this. I'd like to mention three other things: Free school records, and I'm sorry that the chair members couldn't rely on them to support us in our government position; free school meals; and working well with free partners who have expertise in this project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u32	A respectable president. I discussed earlier the importance of our well - being system not going crazy, so we lost people between systems. It is also important not to do so on systems. Power and function, such as the TINA project, is about what it's all about. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir mentioned, is equally important in supporting people. Actions that are being used and tools that we use in order to improve the quality, feeling, and identity of the most poor. It needs to be a priority. Today's debate is how the government can oppose poverty, and of course it is by strengthening and developing the systems I listed earlier. We cannot, in my opinion, rely solely on the government to solve everything. You have to have the courage to discuss the importance of ensuring a link between the various parties that form a social foundation. When it comes to discussing poverty, responsibility is not limited to the State. Social responsibility and transparency to low wages need to be a priority for all. This applies to the development of economic plans, the development of employment and the general labour market. It is also true of the initiative in the business and when it comes to buying and choosing. These factors have the same effect on those on the threshold of poverty. There is a very thin line between the lowest paid and better people. We need to be careful that we offer all perimeters an opportunity for dignity and respect. I think we have, for example. talking openly about why the only immigrants at the Council, except for us. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, he's got people with brooms in his hands. Will these people belong to the next generation of poor people in Iceland? And do we?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u33	Madam President. In Iceland, poverty is a national disaster for the wealth we live in. We are failing tens of thousands of Icelanders and young people who are going to be here on the farm of society for the next few decades. These people are born with a claim to our common resources, but unfortunately they have little in common. Individuals and families struggle to draw life at all too low pay on predators, unsecured housing markets, and they have to choose between paying bills, allowing children to pick up leisure activities, or even buying drugs. The consequences of poverty, the highest. Minister, are all known, insecurity, inefficiency, social excommunication, shame, and, at worst, jam. That's what the Supreme One said. A minister before that each poor one is too poor and that it should be easy to join in for action to cope with it. Nevertheless, the government has rejected a natural tax system that would fall to equal terms. There should not be an improvement in the rate of the tax system, it should not be put on high income or resource taxes. In other words, the government does not care to collect money from very high capital incomes and to make money for a fair profit from resources, letting go of the fair income of tens of billions that used during these good times to attack poverty. On the contrary, it aims to encourage an increase in private consumption by reducing the value tax in 2019 from 24% to 22.5%, and thus it becomes a total of 13 billion that would be useful, for example. to attack poverty. I object to this government's priorities. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u34	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. The members of this discussion, except for those who viewed the discussion as a trick of some sort. I think the rest of us agree that this discussion matters. Hv. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty spoke of the importance of looking at the root of the problem. Then let us look at the root of the problem and not deny it: Yes, there is a greater balance in pay distribution in Iceland than in many other countries, but it is a huge misunderstanding when we look at the division of wealth, the division of possessions. The largest 20% in Iceland has 90% of all wealth in Iceland. This is something that can't be spoken of at a council hall, apparently, because people feel uncomfortable discussing this variety of property. But let us not imagine that we can talk about the worst in the community without being able to talk about the overall picture. It matters how we're going to build up our community, where we're going to get our income, and then we have to make money so that we can build up the welfare system that we believe is enough to eliminate the poverty in Iceland and that everyone can live on equal occasions. We can never look at one group of poor people without looking at the bigger picture. Hv. paritaprevir My favorite book from Tryggvi Emilsson, a poor person, was quoted by S. Brjánsson. It also says that justice never comes from above, and it spoke from the experience they had in fighting for decades and years for building the welfare of the people in Iceland. It is important when we are at the turning point, Madam President, that we have an economic rise that should truly benefit everyone that we do so in a just way. This is done only by approaching the question of how we collect income and how we spread it good. I'm worried about the status of housing, and I'm concerned about the situation of the lower groups, especially the desperate, the elderly and the unemployed, and those at the lowest wage. We all know that their income is not enough for many of them. These are the groups that are being considered in our reports and numbers and behind every number are people with desires and dreams, desires, and expectations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is our duty here to create a society where they can make these dreams, desires, and expectations come true. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u35	Madam President. Again and again, I want to thank you for very good discussions. A discussion of poverty is always timely. Of course, we should always be ready to accept it, and it is always important, whether it is well - off or bad in the economy as a whole. I think it is important, however, to maintain that the basis for a powerful welfare community is always a powerful living, varied and equal opportunity for all regardless of the economy and a powerful safety network in the entire welfare system that rests on these strong foundations. Of course, our welfare system is always based on our valuable things and opportunities to do better for those who may be remembered on the basis of it. It is also important to keep it in place in this discussion that during the good times we are living in today's world, there is an equality and, in fact, the greatest in international context. It has grown here in recent years, and it is interesting to note that from 2010 onward, as you look at the trend in both previous and recent developments in our neighboring countries, the trend has increased. On the same basis as the Gii constant, income balance generally increases over time. It is important to keep it in place, showing that during this upcoming period, we have been able to set priorities in behalf of those less fortunate. Business levels are high here, and it's really important. Poorness is measured here as to what is least in all international contexts and has diminished. We're doing things that can improve. We always have the opportunity to do better. We're adding the health support system. We are raising especially the lowest amount of social security and spending on it a substantial amount of money this year and the next. We are giving extra money to improve the opportunities for employment both disabled and desperate. That's extremely important. We are increasing the flexibility of the elderly to the extent possible to which they are involved. We're investing in a social facility. We are reviewing and directing housing especially to those of the highest income, and most important, we are reevaluating our microenergy pension system in order to promote an increase in society's involvement in the destruction of this unfair crown against the decrease and to look forward to a work-by-work assessment rather than a microenergy evaluation at the present time. [[The president calls.]] All of this is of utmost importance, and hopefully we can agree to reduce poverty even more. Thank you very much for a very good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u36	A respectable president. There has been no valid reason for these issues to be introduced. There is a time limit for when new bills can be submitted. We general senators are expected to follow that deadline. Then it is likely that ministers should follow them as well. Their lack of organization does not create an emergency on our part. It can't be like that. We must work after the program and according to normal procedures. We don't think there's any reason to let it through now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u37	A respectable president. How amazing that these cases are presented as late as they can be! I'd like to mention one thing in this matter specifically to my district and one of the most controversial cases of our time, the funding of Vella-hail March. As it is now good transportation, the willingness to do so is an act that has characterized their financing. Since the beginning of this year, there has been a need for additional funds to complete this project. This bill, which is now to be approved by nature that it would have been possible to make a great deal earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u38	A respectable president. So I make sure that I have my audience in the hall to the long talk I'm going to give about this subject and some other topics, my meditation on life, life, and so forth. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But maybe I'll just recommend the commission. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. Environmental and transport committees have met on this issue. I've recommended a committee party after the 2nd. We got a tip at 2nd. in a assembly hall, as well as from visitors and contacters. These two discussions did not produce much material changes, but there were some legalities. The previous Committee of Environment and Transport Committee stated that the Commission partly helped to establish the viewpoint that specific legislation on public transport was needed. After 2nd. the committee has reason to stress the need for such legislation. Therefore, the Committee directs the Minister to appoint at the first opportunity a group of members who are recommending this situation to change the law. At work it will be emphasized that public transport legislation reflects their importance in the community as a whole, especially in the light of the welfare and environmental issues. It will also be emphasized that legislation will provide a ground for public transportation to the extent possible. Ministers inform the General of the order of the work force and the work position at the 2017 fall. On this point, specific laws on public transportation were consistent with the 2nd. It was also found in various indications and references to the committee in the progress of the matter. The committee has received a tip on the 10th paragraph. The bill by 2. It is not particularly necessary for the applicant to have a travel agency permit on the basis of Article 4. G., as in 9th. ............................. Although this is clearly stated in Article 1. Section 4. that any who are doing business with the law should have a general business permit could cause a misunderstanding that is specifically mentioned in the specifications on automobile equipment rather than on travel permit. In order to eliminate any doubts about the applicant's having a travel permit, the Commission proposes a change to Article 10. ... asthisissetup. Then the commission suggests that the Ministry's motion be made in Article 11. that a driver's certificate is only for transport. In addition, the committee suggests some minor adjustments in wording for correction and explanations. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with some changes outlined in the committee opinion that you can read for enjoyment. [[Just in front of you: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u39	Madam President. Today, we are tempted to consider a subject that says there is a figure of 3. Um., before that, there were two cases that were announced to vote so that you could prepare for it, you looked into it. We voted for it and agreed on it. Without being expressed, neither the chairman of our council at a meeting with a president nor at any other time, it was decided to attempt to complete the 3rd. this case with a vote. Then I'll just have to say, I'm not prepared for this vote, so I'm asking the president, so we can make an informed decision, that it's not so on two, three, four minutes' notice, to reconsider our decision so we can vote for it and finish it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u40	Madam President. Here's a vote for my vote, I'm on the yellow button because I just don't know what this is about. I took a look at it at the time, and I voted when it was in the 2nd. The case was suddenly hung up, three minutes in advance. I'd have to find out exactly what it is, whether or not there's any modifications, etc. This happened too fast, and that's why I'm on the yellow button, so the Morning Press can probably print it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to correct what I came into my language when I explained to the committee. This is shown in a committee program. Environmental and Transport Committees are of great importance to appoint a staff initiating public transport legislation. It's really important, the law has been called on for a while, and I trust it to the highest level. The minister takes this statement from the General Court and gives information and a report on the work position at the Fall Summit of 2017. It is vital that we do so. I'll say yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u42	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to change the law of the courts, where adjustments are proposed to the number of Supreme Court judges and a change in the law of cross-cutting that pertains to the treatment of the guilt that will remain at the next year's end when the National Court takes action. Already the promotion of a new court order in Iceland is being carried out and the National Court will begin to operate on January 1, 2018, as the body of Congress knows. As I have mentioned earlier, it is essential that, as this induction takes place, there are some adjustments that would not be seen to be needed when the Allied Council adopted in May in the last year two laws of law that laid the foundation for the new court order. This bill contains such changes. They are, in fact, three: First, this bill suggests that there will be no appointing of the Supreme Court judge who will be released this year until it becomes necessary to make the Supreme Court seven. According to a new court law that will go into effect on January 1 next year, judges at Iceland's Supreme Court shall be seven. Taking into account the potential inadequacy and inadequacy, the new role of the Supreme Court was evaluated. At the same time, there were narrow sources of subjugation in isolated cases due to the incurence of judges. Courts at the Supreme Court are today on a special temporary basis that expires at next New Year's Eve. There is now a court judge at the Supreme Court who will resign from office on September 1. To meet the number of judges determined in new courts, it is suggested that they not be appointed as judges released this year until seven judges. Second, the criminal cases that have been appealed to the Supreme Court, which the Supreme Court has not completed on January 1, 2018, will be entrusted with a national right. As traced to the bill, due to evaluation of the evidence of oral availability, on January 1, 2018, the Supreme Court of Directors falls down to refer to the treatment of the region. So it is vital to determine how a situation would be handled that way. So here it is suggested that all criminal cases appealed to the Supreme Court but not completed prior to January 1, 2018 will be treated by the National Court. This will allow a re-evaluation of the evidence in national rights. In addition, this will ease the stress of the Supreme Court in the processing of older cases and ensure that a project will be available at the National Court when it takes place on 1st of January. It is unchanged that the Supreme Court will complete all the private matters that have been appealed to the court before January 1, 2018. Third, it is suggested that in the case of the highest court prior to January 1, 2018, the president of the Supreme Court can authorize three judges to take the case instead of five. In the case of a shoot to the court after January 1, 2018, there will be five judges, as stated by a new court law, which will not take effect until January 1, 2018. Hence, the changes take place only on the cases that would have been done by three judges before the end of the year, and they would have heard the current legal law on courts, No. 15/1998. The Supreme Court has made it clear that by the year 2019, pressures on the court will continue because of past cases as well as the need for court to adjust. The decrease in the number of judges will affect the performance of the court. A reduction in the number of judges in this bill is met by assigning the Court's right to complete the criminal case at the Supreme Court next year, as well as the privilege of assigning three judges instead of five to complete some of the earlier cases that have been sent to the court. As I have explained above, the approval of a new court order was tight enough to be granted temporary authority by a judge's permission to put in private cases due to inadequacy or predestination. I think there's a chance that there will be additional sources to put a judge in the Supreme Court on the basis of the court's permission and grant temporary permission to put a reserve judge in the Supreme Court because of the others, as previously have been. I don't think it's time to take a stand on it now, but I'd like to let it happen, of course, that there's always a possibility that the General will be able to address when it comes to it and if there's any occasion. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the subject of this bill. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u43	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice in advance. I'd like to ask you about two things: First, I'd like to ask about the plan that the National Court will take over certain matters from the Supreme Court. Is it necessary to have a certain level of activity in order to cross to the land, or is this true of all unfinal cases? Do Things Need to Be Started? Does it not worry that some knowledge and understanding of the matter will be lost if they are transferred to a new level of judgment? I would like to ask these questions in relation to what has been reported in the government financial programme, but the Court's courts, national rights, and Supreme Court have to do with the need for a new communication exchange system, as well as an increase in technology and technology development in order to perform its tasks properly. In view of moving a lot of things from the Supreme Court to the National Court, I'd like to ask the highest degree. Minister of Justice whether or not she is concerned about the lack of equipment and the lack of this information exchange system, that there will be no benefits, nor will she be prepared to measure up to as much progress as expected? I'll start with these questions: Will the National Court and the Supreme Court be prepared to exchange these information properly? What stage of issue is involved in their going to the Country Court?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u44	A respectable president. As for this bill, it is assumed that cases of crime not transferred during the New Year's Eve are being transferred to the National Court. This assumes that there was no work in the Supreme Court, since the greatest job is, of course, the move and the delivery under court. The Supreme Court, of course, has some way of handling it, but it is assumed that matters that have not been presented but that were only appealed to the Supreme Court and lying there, received a legal number, and arranged for transportation, go to the National Court. The second kind of question is what? The senator is involved in the implementation and case logs and is very interesting from a solution that has been prepared from the beginning of the land's rights. The Supreme Court was updated to the so - called case file and computer system some time ago and has good equipment to control. It is now a major challenge in this changing arrangement, both the district and national courts need to be prepared to hear recordings, testimony, and to receive reports from men, as well as to play them properly in the National Court. This has called for equipment, equipment renewal, and, of course, new equipment from the U.S. District Court. As a result, financial and legal programs allowing the interjugation process to take place. Costs are expected in this respect. Rather, the headache was to find suitable equipment and so forth. It's a good channel, I'm told, from a management group and a project management board that has the planning to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u45	Madam President. I appreciate that explanation. It's good to know. It may be somewhat unclear when we refer to the Supreme Court as to what they are when they move to that new level of judgment. I'd like to review my questions about the data exchange system and this court's review system, whether it is planned and actually planned that the system will be ready for use in 2018 when the new level of judgment takes over and when it undergoes this massive information exchange between three judges. I cannot read from the financial program that money is put into the new equipment with the local courts and not to the various projects the Supreme Court and the local courts may have been asking for, but it's a little out of the material. I am deeply interested and concerned about this legal system, that it will not be in the proper shape when the new judgment begins. Therefore, I would like to ask in this context: What level of work is it at? Is the project sufficiently funded to get the system ready for 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u46	A respectable president. In these technical matters, it's mostly two things I'd like to mention; one thing I described in my previous reply to an counter-reactivity, i.e. As far as the recording system and other factors are concerned, which are essential for an unscrupulous case for the land's rights, it is up to the necessary need for success. There is a recording device from the local courts and a corruption device from the National Court. It is in good shape and is assumed to be. I don't know if you've bought one yet, but it's at least Getting ready for these devices. About the other thing, if I get it. It is true that the courts in the province and the Supreme Court have built their work on any legal system. It has long been planned that these files can talk, not just between the courts, but with, for example, ours. The prosecution and the police. It is a longer period of work that we have a lot of mind to do. It's in preparation. I assumed a certain amount of money for the district courts in the financial program now available for the council to renew its legal system, which is, of course, a complete prerequisite for continuing to work on the electricalisation of the whole justice system. However, a long time ago, I would say, decades ago, I would have gone, and I would have had to renew it. The cost of reimbursement of the national legal system is expected in a financial programme. Then there is a basis for further work and connections with other aspects of the justice system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u47	Madam President. I recommend a bill for a change in the law on the financing sub-Valalahön. The bill suggests the increase in loans from a government fund of 4.7 billion dollars. so that they can be completed and used as soon as possible. The bill itself treats little. Only two changes are made in 1 mg. 1st par. The laws that apply to government loans to the tunnel, i.e. that the amount will be increased to up to 14.4 billion. and that the amount of money is worth at the end of 2016. The law is completely unchanged. As we know, it was the intention of the then government and the greater part of the Generals to be financed by the embezzlement of the land under Mount Vellah some five years ago. This will come, e.g. in the name of the current legislation which is a legal warrant for Minister B.h. A government fund to finance the construction of a tunnel under Mount Vadlah. Also, heavy soils, as well as warm and cold water infusions during the tunnel work time, have caused significant delays and extra activities to be done at high costs. The project is now heading for about 44% ahead of the budget and for two years to open the second half of 2018. At the same time, road transport in the region has increased more than expected in the initial analysis for the project. Thus, all of us are likely to be making more money for the future. Then a blow came on April 28th. and thus, the largest uncertainty of the Agency's activities is destroyed and the cost of implementation is far more predictable. In today's situation, there are no good qualities, but despite the tragic events, it is best to finish the course. The original loan plan that Akureyri and Húsavík can get close to forming one job and habitat is still valid. This means that driving time will decrease and security during trips between Akureyri and Húsavík will greatly increase, in fact, to the whole area of the Netherlands. The government is the only lender and the biggest financier in the building. The tunnel will run to the State free of charge when the cost of their construction is fully paid. It is therefore clear that the government of the long largest interest in the completion of the tunnel and the collection of road costs will immediately begin to make money to pay off the mortgage. After the translucency, work at the exits of the tunnel, and a hook along with other such tunnels will be completed. All these factors are in force in terms of contracts. It is unlikely that in a short time it would be possible to obtain more favorable work contracts in order to be able to complete the project and put the tunnel into use and to earn it. There is much that we can learn from this process. Therefore, the government has decided that there will be a thorough assessment of the entire project and the reasons why the cost has been so far beyond plan. The Agency is working on the requested assessment and the result is expected to be soon. It is worth reimbursement, then, to reimburse the government once the tunnel has been opened and run for three years. However, if there is a problem at that time without a state's responsibilities, the State may have to be a creditor for the future. It should be noted that in the review of the Federal Accounting Fund for additional loans to the Society, the fund concluded that from what is to be considered, an additional loan should agree with what can be done on the bill, since there is a overwhelming chance that the income of the tunnel will be considerably higher than the 4.7 billion dollars. which is now suggested to lend a price. Of course, if the task stops, there will be no income against the loans that have already been paid. In view of what has been presented here, financial and economic ministers feel that the completion of the project will be the most beneficial thing for the State. Furthermore, by agreeing with the bill on this subject, the country is being saved from damages that will result from its failure to complete the tunnel as well as increasing the opportunity that the North American community can use for further community development after opening a tunnel under the Wall. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The budget and the 2nd. by the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u48	A respectable president. This is a very interesting subject and came into the legal hearing on March 1. where it was clear that the situation had been known to everyone in at least a month if not anymore. There is an application for increased Kingdom responsibilities for completing the tunnel. The completion of the project is worth all the pay, but in the laws on the state's responsibilities, it says that if a loan cannot be met on a public lender, a trust fund is forbidden to address Kingdom responsibilities unless it meets certain conditions, and so is the meeting of a general lender market. It says that the estimate is based on prophesying. No one on the market will lend on these projects. As a result, the state's budget cannot depend on the State's responsibilities on this loan. It's going to have to go on budgets if this is the way it's gonna be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u49	Madam President. The state trust fund gave a review of the matter, and it is certainly not. A senator's use of this project and its passage would not be expected to borrow for an additional public market, as would a government fund with the loan already paid in line. There are questions about the future that the income will be sufficient to reach the amount fully. You're absolutely right. However, there is a loan that is being given to increase the likelihood of it, making it more likely, according to the Federal Accounting Fund, to get something paid for the loan that has already been paid, i.e. The 4.7 billion will be paid to the full, and it will be paid up to a considerable degree in the amount already paid. Of course, no one knows about it. In that sense, it is just the opposite of the problem. There is a senator who has a number of fortune - tellers. I'd like to agree that the work on this case was unusual, and that's why we're taking the whole thing into consideration, but in the situation as it is, the government fund is avoiding a greater loss by not stopping the project because it would result in the loss of the loan that has already been paid for the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u50	A respectable president. I understand all about finishing and actually saving the already started investment and loan, but my question is really about this: Can we use laws on state responsibility to complete these projects? According to the State Accountability Act, we cannot, in accordance with the direction of the Kingdom Accountable Fund. Are we presenting a bill for a law that violates other laws? I don't think it's good luck to be in charge. It has to be in another way. I encourage the Minister to take a better course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u51	Madam President. In fact, it is proper to draw attention to the fact that according to the Kingdom guarantee fund, he proposes that this loan be rendered. As in times past, it is fun to have a place to say. A member of the council because he is found on a number of formalities, which, of course, should be followed. We see that the outcome of the fund is, in all respects, that the loan is the right thing to do. It is not an option that anyone takes with special pleasure. All of us would have wanted an original loan to have worked, but unfortunately, this happened in this way. You can't save your money no more than to lend more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u52	A respectable president. I'm glad to see that this is a bill that is involved in the continuation of important transport improvements. All transport benefits are nationally economic in their own way, like the highest. A minister described in his case, in a common employment area, and in a national sense the practicality to it. I share it with the Minister. But I would like to point out that there are many comparable transport projects that have far more social benefits than this specific procedure of road accidents. A traffic accident cost us 50 billion a year. I'd like to mention them, for example. Southland, one of the scariest roads in the country, between Whoville and Selephos. To complete a double there costs about as much as that extra treasure. The road has cost a lot of holes. I say: By not making such an immediate effort, we lend much money to the health - care system, which we do not get back. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether we can expect more initiatives such as this to be necessary for urgent transport that need special attention and to save money that is economicly practical and important for the protection of the health system and other public services from damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u53	Madam President. I think this project and the mess she's been through are very few times, and I hope it's a very rare thing that needs to come to the Council in a way similar to what I'm doing here today. But I have to agree with that. A senator's social impact on transport improvements is very social. Whatever it is. A senator leaves behind the security factors involved in having good transportation on a variety of roads. I just agree with what. A senator who pays very often and is often easy to find strong reasons to improve, such as. the path mentioned by the senator. I believe, however, that it will be unlikely that a minister of finance will offer such prime warnings that, as a matter of fact, it will be. A senator knows the general way of managing transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to point out that here, unusual work and the decision of Generalis have led me to believe that important transportation has been presented for others even more important transport improvements in the priorities of the government, although it is either the Minister. It can be very damaging for the State not to finish a Venetian tunnel, but we do not have the answer to the question: Is it even more financial, what social, what harm to not finish the road ahead? That is the question we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u55	Madam President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator really agrees on the main subject of his speech, i.e. that road accidents are a serious problem, and we should try to eliminate as many dangerous road users as possible. But to answer his question in the previous year with absolute answer: Secretary of finance will not produce any of that kind of prime action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Minister's review of the bill. To some extent, I would like to ask about things similar to why. paritaprevir Will Árnason. The bill says, and the highest. The minister did well, that, at the same time, the government decided that the project and the reasons for the cost of it have been far beyond plans. The Agency is working on the requested assessment and is expected to be in the middle of this year. I'm a great spokesman for the review. Although I may have thought that the review of a project would be more reasonable when it is completed, I am very happy that there will be an assessment. Let's hope that everything remains within the schedule after the assessment. But I would like to ask in a manner similar to that taken earlier, i.e. to further projects that may be similar to this one. It's not a secret to the highest. A far - reaching secretary of transportation has spoken a lot of talk about further becoming a member of the community and the State. I'm not asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether he intends to present the prime points of the material. I think I know the Capitol just enough to know that it isn't. He is, however, one of the points of the government. As such, I would like to ask him about his attitude toward it. Tells you the highest. Secretary of finance that it is advisable to have further projects that will be carried out in a manner similar to this one, i.e. that the state cooperates with privates?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u57	Madam President. I think we should evaluate all projects in the same way. In fact, I don't think it all matters when we are evaluating the interest of projects that the government needs to pay in some way whether private people do them or the State. I generally feel that if a private person comes up with this kind of project, it should be a clean-cut private project, not by government loan, as in this case, or the responsibility of the State. Nevertheless, when a spal's tunnel was placed under the Ha▁forða, a well - defined project was successful, and it was successful and successful, and it has been achieved according to plan, the government's responsibilities were on the loans of Spalar. This was an indirect government operation. I don't think it's good. I think there's a difference. Either this is the Kingdom work and on its own terms or it is a clean personal project. If we're looking at public transportation, I think there's also some very important reason why we're looking at some kind of private project. But in general, if the government eventually has to pay the bag, there is no savings in the government to push this cost. I don't generally believe that a private project alone is a magical solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That was clear and clear. Then we can see his general view of these matters. I'm not going to drag him into anything he didn't say here. But then a question must arise, and in view of the tremendous need that is in this language. Last day we saw in the News magazine. A secretary of transportation names up to 100 billion missing in recent years. How's the top count? Secretary of the budget that necessary transport projects can be carried out without significant support of the government's sector? How can all these projects be taken in a different way than paying them for some common fee? Increase the highest levels of the tax system, capital tax, or anything like that. How's the top? A minister to carry out this if he does not believe that the private amount of money is the magic solution and it is obvious that the next five years' financial plan does not contain this money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u59	Madam President. Now, perhaps we've come a little bit from the main subject, which is this law bill here, a private project that was used to deal with the tunnels we're talking about. But it is always complicated to think about what is necessary. Although I'm not a special fan of roads, you know them well after you've both traveled and lived abroad, so I've thought it might be a good idea of a transport minister. But I'm no part of his importer to that idea. However, I think that in general it may be well thought that those who use the roads will pay for it. I don't think we can do that unless we've considered it much better. I don't have a clear position on the case right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u60	A respectable president. As mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers, there are not necessarily many fine qualities in this case. I admit, I don't envy the highest. The financial minister of Benedikt Jóhannesson has to make the matter clear. In short, there are billions of loans to the debt of a private member called the Vállah tunnel Corp. Of course, we have a pretty complicated relationship with the private person. He owes us money. We've made a deal with him, so we'll have his property when the loan has been paid off, and we have about half of our share in this private property. True, it is a complex relationship, but such a relationship is not something that is not recognized in business or social rights. We should not forget that this is true at times by making the next decision. We must think of ourselves as being here considering the interests of a government fund as one of his rulers. It must be kept in mind that the acronym took place. behind the names of enterprises is not thought of as quality signals but as a warning to those who do business with them; that they are involved in a society with limited responsibility. In foreign languages this is often given special emphasis by hammering it; it is spoken of in English. Similar adjectives are used in other languages to show that they have limited responsibility. In English it may not be clear enough that it is a society that could go upside down and end up not being able to repay one's loans. I'm just going to step back to the review of the Kingdomty Fund, which is our primary benefit when it comes to making a decision about the future. This review provides a variety of reasons. For example, one of the forsents given under the heading is that 85% of drivers who intend to go through a controlled route will choose to go through the tunnel and that the average price without a merit tax of 1,200 bucks. 1.350K. ... withprecautional tax. But this is a tunnel that saves 15 minutes for travel time. In comparison, taking the tunnel under the Ha▁forða, where the fare is 1,000 bucks, may save four times as much travel time as possible. I'll take this example to mention just uncertainty. It may be said that some of the uncertainty is due to the successful completion of the project, the drilling through the tunnel, but there is still considerable uncertainty about business. Prosperity is still present. How many will take advantage of the tunnel? What is required in order for the tunnel to survive? If I continue to talk about the Kingdom Accounting Fund's comments, it was so that, according to a loan agreement, loan time should not be longer than 30 years from the start of work. In view of these, I am determined, however, the optimistic assumption is that the state's budget will be 8% if the loan is rated in general terms and the probability of a drop of 22%. The problem is, government funds are already borrowing, and they need to be careful about their own interests as such. It was that mine didn't know what to do with the original loan. But, according to the State Accounting Fund of its time, in 2012, Presidential permission said: It is unlikely that a post-finishment loan could be reimbursed on the basis of a government march with the loan that the project will be met and a government fund will receive its loan so that it can be reimbursed. This is illustrated by the review of the 2012 Kingdom Accounting Fund. So there are hell to guard against here, which we need to consider. We need to take into account what is then presented in this report. The results of the State responsibilities fund are made so certainly at the end of the report the minister reviewed that in terms of earlier events, the RIB considers that additional loans of 4.7 billion with 5% interest should be unchanged 0.6% risk fees. It goes on to say that the suggestions on how to improve the possibility that government funds will get as much of their loans as possible will be reimbursed in this review. The question remains for what to do if we get involved again, if we again accept more money because we've already spent so much. What does that mean? Then, as a government fund, we are a partner with limited responsibilities but apparently unlimited responsibilities. Again, I would like to refer to the review of the Kingdom Accounting Fund, on page 24. 9, which is a point that I don't feel has been discussed sufficiently in this discussion. It's a part of the money. It says, by permission of the president: The club's 600 billion dollars. K. and are its shareholders of Iceland's National Fund, the Akureyri Trade Place, KEA, UA, the Northern Parliament investment union and smaller stockholders through the Grenda Way ehf. When the entire section will be paid at the end of 2017, government funds will be the minority owner with a share of more than 36% while the Platform Ehf. It is 66% share. There is concern that Iceland's government fund, which holds the most financial risk of the project, seems to have limited impact on the future payment of the number. The interests of the state's funds can be better assured on such projects as by making the requirement that extra loans be granted only if the state's funds become more part of the WHG Hf society. The wealth of money does not have to be more than 100 million. K. to gain more part of the union, which is not much in view of the interest of the budget of the state to which the budget is headed for 16.6 billion dollars. at the end of 2018. Or it could be concluded that the terms of extra loans could be made that the ownership of non-refundant shares would be diluted.◯ I have a preconceived tendency to make this opinion less lenient. It's certainly so that if we're going to continue with the project, I feel that if we're going to go along with it, if we're going to go along with it, if we're gonna have something to say about what the manifest is like in the end. This is important because we may face a full responsibility for this partner and not be able to make the necessary decisions on the level of reimbursement. If all the responsibility is to be in the hands of the government, I feel that the combination of the company should reflect it. Finally, I feel that there is something missing in this discussion: What would happen if we didn't do anything? How would that be possible if it simply ran out, was made up, and was replaced by another arrangement? I'm not saying that I'm sure there's a better solution, not at all, but I think there's a lot to figure out. At the very least, I would feel that there should be a way in which a solution would appear to be made so that we, as members of the Parliament, who are responsible for the financial situation of a state fund, might make a informed decision. A respectable president. As I have come into this situation, I have some doubts about this subject. I have checked them and hope that the committee will take those points for careful consideration in their discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u61	Madam President. It can be said that the project on the Válladle tunnel is involved in future events. I was glad to hear that the Minister intends to have a detailed analysis of the project, I think it's wise. I think we should try to learn from the way this project has worked out. This was the case at the time. In order to be maintained, I believe that then a deputy, Hlynur Hallsson, reported that this would be investigated in 2004, the construction of these gangs. That had been during the discussion, I think, since 1990 or something, and a lot of work had happened. This is especially what will result in the decision to take this action in its own time. Certain studies had been conducted, premeditated, and the case had been quite long, many years of pregnancy. It was observed in the highest range. The current minister of education, in our discussions at the council at the time, when this was discussed, may be one of the main reasons why the matter could be supported. I will not, however, suggest that the leader and the way the case came up here at the council is above criticism. Not at all. I think that's a story you can discuss and learn from. Whatever the case, it is not wise to do anything that does not involve careful, detailed discussion. If that proves to be the case, we will learn a lesson from it. I think it's money in a box that would have been used for a different kind of transportation, but it's a loan, of course, that was taken because of this process. This is not a loan that would have been taken to put directly in the box and used in general projects. It's important to keep that in mind. At a time when we were getting up from the economic breakdown, when it was needed, this included talking about the fact that a certain preparation had taken place and the wise course to follow, and of course, because it has always been in order to bring the cost of this project. At one time, there was also much talk about the traffic forecasts and certainly also about the benefits offered. It looked like someone in it. However, as we have observed and are concerned with road events, we see that there has been a tremendous increase in traffic over this area, probably about one of the 30 to40%, as the latest figures indicate. There's also something that works with the project, I'd say. But of course, I'm not going to belittle that there's a lot of money under here. In fact, it can be said that literally everything came up, and everything goes wrong that can go wrong on this matter. I don't have a geology, but I tell more than one and two people who know that in themselves, more research would not necessarily have revealed how rocks and other things were practiced. I remember, for example, a story of water and a wreck of Höinn Fjord - I live in Ólafsafjörður. This was not meant to be because it had not been studied enough. Bolungarvík - many of these have come up. This is what we live for. You can never be sure that something will work out completely and nothing will happen. What we've had to deal with in these tunnels was this great heat, something new. We had dealt with a lot of cold water in the other tunnel, but this was something that would delay a lot. It was fun to be there during the days when people thought and thought about it. One sensed that it was, after this great and difficult battle, and the presumptuous negative talk that has been about this tunnel, a relief to be through. Sadly, though they may be more risky, they take care of what is expected. But, of course, this project is taking place that the Kingdom will be in the tunnel. It really belongs to them. The point is that this is a reconstituted procedure, i.e. Kingdom responsibility is upon these funds. Here a minister has expressed his concern that such an arrangement may not be his concern. All right. There is something we can learn from, that we need to do it differently. But if the tunnel doesn't survive to the next 30 to 40 years, we'll still have to say, considering everything and all, unless we charge our fees to the tunnel, we're still gaining an inexpensive tunnel, less expensive than if the state had begun to make it entirely itself without collecting tolls. It is true that many tips are shown in the title of the Kingdomty Fund. Some new ones, others based on those who were paid their credit money back. But it is so, as the Minister says, that we are faced with the fact that if we are not going to destroy the project, we need to complete it. It is also worth remembering that the loan rates are better today than they were then, around 2011. It may be asked, " Do I look back at my loan? Do I have the same value as the extra loan? ' This would surely help to speed up subsidies. I also feel that when we're talking about this tunnel, it's often merely witnessed to Húsavík. But it's an enormous summer house, so let's not forget it, in the county of Germany and in the Valley of Snow. In addition, I think it will be easier to market the area for all kinds of outdoors and leisure time. Then it's important not to go to the Viking Pass. Of course, time must tell you how many go through, but we have the traffic forecasts. I remember the condemnation of the Hinder Straithole - that would have been less expensive - but it has often proved to be a savior once the Oxnadal treats have been shut down repeatedly. During the last winter, for years, traffic has flowed through the Cave of the Earth. Despite the immediate hope of the general public, on the river side, people have gone that way. I'm not gonna belittle it's expensive, and I'm gonna cost us more than we originally planned. When we consider what such projects can do for communities, we have been talking about electric cars, climates, and the others. There you can save a lot of money and the energy that makes cars get between cars rather than if they crossed the difficult Viking Pass. I think this will make a lot of friends. But it doesn't matter if we feel that this has been said before or if it should have been done in any other way. It's a story that's been written, it can't be changed. That's why I think we need to try to look brighter and more positive at what's underneath. Our traffic forecast is true, and it should be able to support this. Except for the human life and other things underneath. So, as mentioned earlier, I only testify in the title of the Kingdom Trustworthy Fund, which is fine and good, the person we want to look at when this kind of thing is being carried out. Therefore, directly to the state, it is more reasonable for the government to finance such projects entirely, and that is, as I once said, perhaps more reasonable to refinance to enable companies to pay down the loan faster. The state trust fund recommends that this should be approved, that the tunnel be completed so that they can start making money. It's said here, by permission of the President: ▪ There should be some good odds that the tunnel can pay for the extra loan and more. The greatest uncertainty is how much money we can pay on the current loans of Corp's Vault walk. It is noted that the proposals of the Kingdomty Fund, how to improve the possibility of the greatest return of loans, appear in this review. Because of the few words the state enjoys, it is said that it may be wise for the State to do more. But it is also pointed out here, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks, that the state has more in the tunnel. I can't see that it's important now that projects are about to end. Unless, of course, it is said that the state as the main responsibility provider does not have to say how much credit is, that's all there is. But if the government thinks of getting back, it must suggest that it be reasonable to have a suitable pay for the tunnel. I don't think the company is thinking something different. Those who do so want to get the traffic through, and prices must be the focus. Despite the way this has been accomplished, it is a pleasure that we are over the most difficult of things. We're looking forward. Now you see the project continue after this difficult time, I hope so. It's coming to the budget board, and I hope there's no delay in the job there. I don't think the government will give you a bill that won't pass the law as it was before. But surely it is worth taking into account what happened to him. paritaprevir The Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson earlier, and it will only be considered if so and then what needed to be done to do so. I thought the State Accounting Act had been changed so that they could cover this assignment at the time, I would have thought it hadn't changed since then. I'm glad to hear it. Minister's going to have it checked out. I think it's also good for the nation, because this project has been as controversial as it has been, that it will be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u62	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. 6th. That's the north side. before the talk and is thought - provoking. Before they come, I want to thank you very much. Budget and economic ministers for his role and progress in this case and for solutions that could become the premise and long in preparation, as shown in the speech of several speakers. Senator. It's nice to hear that some believe that this is mainly a tunnel for Húsavík. It must then be said, as it is, that they have soared like the Akureyrins in the Gísli Marteinn in the Evrovet. But, for all laughs, there is a highway No. 1 from Eyarjar and east all over the country and then into the circle road. It's not like it's just for some one thing, like, built-in. That's why I'd like to even. asking why. A senator I know well wondering what this tunnel can mean by a national bison. Second, I'd like to ask her to wonder what explanation we have, I'll leave it to her to interpret it, to the increase that has taken place in the Viking Passes, and to see if we can't expect an even greater increase in the increase when this huge road is achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and truly accepts what she says. That's exactly what I'm talking about. I quoted earlier when Héin's tunnel was built. They were postponed, and as they set out, the debate was that they were only for a few people. These tunnels exist not only for Húsavík but, of course, for the entire eastern region. The need for such a difficult journey through the Viking Pass through wintertime is greatly increased, as is the case with tourism, e.g. in Húsavík and elsewhere where the whale inspection has increased dramatically throughout the year. We must not forget that we are, unfortunately, gathering Yaris over the winter of Viking Pass, as in the South and other parts of the world. The tunnel's a little more safe in this place. Regarding the increased flow of tourists, it can be guided by an interest in coming to a tunnel. It's exciting to have a look at them. I'm sure there'll be quite such a round, exactly as it became at my home. Outside, the area around us builds even more. At least I believe for this part of our area that there's a lot of building around, whether it's about leisure time, sports, and then there's other things that the tunnel helps with. I must also mention that we are convening health care and other activities in certain places, delivery services, and such. There is also a great deal of safety for people in a vast area of the East to make it around the whole of the year without any particular problems. I think it matters. I have no doubt that there will be a great increase in traffic, much more than we think.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd also like to look at other factors that I often feel are forgotten about in the discussion, in this case about the Venal Hall, and it's that employees and workers work hard and under dangerous conditions in creating the barriers in Iceland. I don't talk about the technical knowledge, and the practicality and vision they do, the staff, has a well to bear, and does good things for us. I think we can totally afford to thank them for their share in this structure. There's been a lot of things going on in the Valley Hall tunnel, but I also remember talking about the tunnels under the Halfjörður, some of which seemed lost, about making tunnels under the sea level. The whole thing was going to fall apart and there wouldn't be any of it. Happily, though, people do not give up. We are entering something similar to other nations that live in a landscape similar to ours; high mountains and high mountain roads. It is a joy to see the development that has taken place, and even though it has been controversial, it has not been backed up. I believe this is something that really matters about our country's habitat, that we have safe transport. Then I want to come in like a dog. A senator came in earlier on clean and complete pollution control. Instead of having cars climb up mountain roads and vomit out poisons, we drive near plains. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u65	Mr. President. I agree with the senator. I agree that some of the workers there have faced a number of challenges and challenges. There's a lot of men out there in knowledge. Therefore I say, 'The tunnel must be drilled,' as soon as one finishes, and one starts to drill another.' It's supposed to be that way. That's our country. How sad that there would be a ten - year - old stop to a tunnel before these started in our district! It is also so that younger people will be more willing to travel if there is access to health care, etc. This is part of strengthening the area, any projects like this, whether it's Bolungarvík, or when the City Bridge was built in its own time. I wasn't old at the time, but since I was delivering magazines, I remember that there were large coverts where it was completely condemned, and it seemed like a huge fortunepot, and God knows what. I wouldn't want to be without the City Bridge today. It's just like Landing Harbor. There's a risk. It hadn't been the eruption for 160 years, the day after the first opening of the land island crew, it turned out to be a mess. There is an enormous amount of sand and ash and thus through a corpse that creates the difficulties of the harbor and does not provide the end. What are we going to do? Cancel? No. Of course, we will try to find a solution. We live in such a region that we have to take a great deal of risks with a number of projects, especially those involved in transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u66	A respectable president. First, it is proper to express yourself only materially on the bill itself, for that is, of course, what is being discussed here. For me, it would be kind of a shame not to carry on with a project that has come so far. I agree with the highest. A minister of men getting this far done doesn't mean he's not going to finish it. That wouldn't be a wise use of money. So I understand that this bill has been submitted, and I think it is quite wise to finish what is started, because otherwise they have just gone down, at least they won't be used right away. I had a word with the highest. Minister only earlier in the discussion. V.E.G. A minister thought I was out of business, and I understand the highest level. Minister means it. I'm still gonna let me do it again. I agree with what's said in the case of the highest. Minister, that we need to learn from these types of projects. I'm not necessarily sure that I and the highest. Secretary of finance will learn the same lesson from the project. Yet, that may well be so. The fact that here we are specifically referring to the change in the work-producing law is an indication that we are merely staging and considering this arrangement: An agreement between private and state when it comes to large projects. There is also reason to ask ourselves, " What are the reasons for making decisions? ' I believe that the decisions we make when it comes to transportation should be based on a transport strategy, they should be based on priorities for society's interests. Communicating. I'm a simple man, and I believe in the combination, that we have as a community a set of vitals and that we go together to finance these vitals, to build them, and to drive them. The decision that was made at the time. At times, I have been grateful that I had not been at a council in my time and had to make a decision about this bill. Now the situation was a different from what we see today. The payout of a government fund was a possibility in those years. I wrote a lot of news when I was working as a journalist that this or that big company, the agency or the bank, or what it was now, is over. We remember that time. When decisions are criticized, it is often necessary to follow the footsteps of those who made their decisions, as I learned from history. I'm not sure, however, that I would have voted on this project, I just don't know. But I am very determined to follow the priorities reflected in the transport program, that this is not the basis for the budget being covered. At this point in the nation's economic history, it was the basis for the capital that enabled this work to be carried out in excess of others. That's not true now. We talk a lot about the continuous economic growth that we now enjoy. Ministers now at the highest level. The government and the economist speak a lot about a good economic situation, so the decisions we address today are in no way given the same merits as the decisions made at the time. That's why I want, and it's my wish that we learn from this case because it's not just some theoretical speculation I'm in here. We look forward to seeing that during months, even years, we need to make decisions as to whether we are going to follow a further course that is a cohesive to private and State. Transporter announces new ideas in a pass by roadsiders. V.E.G. The minister of finance responded only to his ideas in this regard. Despite the highest. The secretary of finance has no such plans, they're in business. V.E.G. A transport minister has said here that a transport strategy may not be submitted until the next year because it should be first considered how it is possible to obtain new options for transport workers. I don't know. Do we need new means of transportation? Do we need more projects in which the State is a responsible provider in some way but not with all the oversight of the project? Do we need more work where things go wrong and the State will come to the rescue rather than profit or a lack of privileges, not to end up with the government? I'm not sure. I'm not so sure. In recent years and decades, we have far too little to handle. Our financial resources today, despite the best compensations. However, governments, under the average of the last few decades, are estimated to be a proportion of GDP. Why? Why don't we put more money on transportation during this time of economic growth? Why? It's economic growth. We have a lot of money, but we don't put it in transportation. Is it because there is no need? No, everyone agrees on the need. Everyone agrees that there is a great need. In the News newspaper, a secretary of the United States last said: 100 billion. Transport plan, it's gonna be billions short if it's not billions. This is not why we do not place as a community growing money in building up the necessary infrastructure of our transport system. Why, then,? Is it perhaps because we are going to look elsewhere for the money? Are we going to let privates into our road system further to build and fire it? I don't know. In this regard, a secretary of travel speaks for a variety of ideas. There's no other way to separate it than to put a toll gate here on every highway or sheep street, on the road, out of the city, out of the capital area, and there's a fee. It's not the combination in my mind. In my mind, society's lifebloods, whether they turn to roads we have to take our children to hospitals, to school, to the lines that our electricity leaves, to light up our lights, our blood vessels to hot and cold water, our drains. I'm sure we could keep going. These are the vitals we should share as a community. We are to finance them together as a community because we are a society that uses them. The ideas of the private wealth simply don't belong in this, in my opinion. I'm convinced that not everyone in this councilroom will agree with me about it. But it's my simple world view. Why have we been drawing so much money into this building? There is no other understandable explanation, but because we are going to allow our private resources to go in, we are further going to raise these taxes because we should not forget that paying a fee is nothing more than paying taxes. Now I don't want any comment on exactly what this means, what the exact word tax means, and what the exact word service fee means. Still, this is nothing but tax returns. Service fees are only hidden tax returns. At the cost of visiting relatives east of the country, it's just tax. I believe in the equation. I believe that the tax system should be used so that most of the hands pay most. Thus, we finance the road system, the school system, the health system, because - yes, now I'm going to go beyond the box: this cohesive amount of privacy and public, there are also other places; in the health system, in the education system, and in the expectations there. It's the same well as when it comes to it. That's why, chief. Secretary of the budget, I mentioned the financial program for the next five years. There you can see the signal where it's going. Are we going to stand here in five years and discuss whether we're going to come to rescue the sources building a new western highway? We'll stand here after nine years discussing how to get better at the project called two or four times or seven times, or what will it be, Southland Road? I share the vision presented earlier that it is the most convenient thing to have, in the least, a uniting of privacy there and that the cohesion of privacy and government is not necessarily the solution. However, I have a view that the conclusion is that it is public through its tax system, through the combination, that should build up the infrastructure needed for a decent, viable society. I'm here in some way beyond the framework that this bill puts us in the discussion, I'm sure. I want us to try to learn this from this bill and the position we come up with on this project, not only in terms of this process itself, but in terms of how I support my mind that it will be made, but that we will learn from it when it comes to the decisions we have to make in the near future, when it comes to deciding how we will meet the necessary needs that all agree on the development of transport. When I'm at the highest. A secretary of transportation, or whoever it will be, will come here to discuss that the way to do this is further cooperation between private and state, let's raise this bill. Let us have a word about whether we have learned something from this project, that this may not be the best way, and whether other ways are more suitable, and whether this should not simply be part of the combination we as a community should be proud of having the most.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kololin, Óttarsson Proppér, is a man of great interest in a good speech in which he makes clear his viewpoints and wants to learn from the experience that history has brought to us. However, I wondered, " Is this lesson not worth a little choice?'Perhaps the lesson I want to learn from the story falls pretty well to his world view that the government should do more than nothing less. I also learned a lesson from this project in my speech. It would have been slow at the time, when the men decided to go out and put in these chariots, to read, for example. The review of the Federal Accounting Fund and found that it made it quite clear that they were absolutely not convinced that the loan that was going to come would return to the state's fund. Within the framework of which I pretend to swim in -- this is not the best word picture in the world, but let's work on it - it's possible to find out that it is possible to go into cooperation with a trust fund by going in some way to the private capital of the road, provided that it is a management candidate for it, and that government funds will not carry a sharp object from a table. There are some private projects in a road system that has been successful, one of which in Iceland is a Halfland tunnel. There are such examples in many parts of Europe. I wondered, " Can I not have a self - examination and think about how he might draw too far - reaching conclusions from this one example? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I would no doubt draw too wide a conclusion from this one example if it had come out of my mouth earlier that in the situation that now existed, the answer to all the questions facing this in the next few years and years was at least not my intention to do so, if I have said so. This is one of the lessons we need to learn from. However, I find it hard to believe that if a person has an equal amount of privacy and publicity, he or she is creating a more complex level. Hv. When discussing borrowing at the time, a senator said that there was doubts about whether it returned to the state's fund and asked what was wrong with the private funds of the road system to get it back. You can find an extraordinary project, I'm sure it will and say, "It's the only way here. I just don't know. I haven't seen it. I'm talking straight over and in general. Once we've got one of these into the equation, i.e. That's what I'm talking about. A senator says that the loan is returned, and the financing is committed, and all of that, we have the basis for the budget. What about them projects where the loan will never return? What about projects that will never pay off? It's an inflatable loss on them over the next 2,200,500 years, that project will never pay off. Aren't we going to them, or? Is it supposed to be a state that pays them out of its own pocket, but does a private person come to those who are potentially profitable? So, then, how do we think that priorities will come because they are not so much as a road construction thing in Iceland, it's not just the capital that is a limited factor there? So, then, will not the implementation of the priority list, which is more than creditable or in part to a private person, always be done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u69	There are no doubt scenes in these areas. I pointed out only one example of cooperation with the funding that we made that apparently didn't work out very well, if we put it rather pent. Here's a bill to sort it out, and I hope we finally see it. The Senator asks more speculative questions about how we visualize the road system, whether we see a road system where the State is holding out a set system that is what we believe will not need to be carried than that a private member of the system will handle some aspect of the system in part during a financial situation that we feel will be able to carry. I'll admit that in my world, it's fine. I've run on such systems in many parts of Europe, which are somehow funded by private agents who have knowledge of these things. I don't have nightmares that would be part of the arrangement. There we may be at odds. I have a realistic view that it may not be possible to finance a road between small areas of Western Europe, Eastern Europe. Let us take one typical two lane road that connects two towns and two villages, there is no need to do so on our own. But when we're talking about highways, tunnels, or means of transportation that are truly worthwhile, I feel comfortable that some of this can be financed by financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u70	A respectable president. I can make you happy. A senator who gives me no nightmares about the scenarios he draws up. In fact, I rarely have nightmares, and my dreams in these days are truly good, having a wonderful life now that we have a wonderful life. But I like that kind of communication. Me and what. A senator disagrees on a fundamental point when it comes to financing what I believe should be part of the combination. I don't know why. A senator believes that it should be part of the combination, but that it is financed in some other way, perhaps not everything. I can see a warning in the air if it's the norm. There are many activities, simply because there are not enough contractors, there are not enough people to do things. They need a device to do something. If nothing but funding controls a quest, I think that perimeters are in danger, scattered areas, even areas where wounds are needed as a result of accidents, but the road isn't quite high enough. I fear that this will all be out of the way of the projects that are carried out, where the funds are available on the part of a private person, where it will just be like an investment, like buying stock, stocks, or what it is called, where the private people are going to get their product back as normal, which is what the investors expect to do. I don't have nightmares about it, but I'm afraid if this is the norm, then this situation can come up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u71	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for the perturbing discussions that have been here, and also thank the U.S. Senate for providing a variation so that this important matter could be delivered, which I expect to get the speed of payment on the Senate committee and we will be able to finish by spring. I'd like to step back to one point that came out of the question. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, could be understood by a senator who was forbidden to lend extra loans unless it could be shown that the need for loans could be met on the public market under the laws of state responsibility. On the other hand, the law says, by permission of the president: It is forbidden to handle Kingdom responsibilities unless they meet the following conditions: Another requirement states: If the financial requirement cannot be met on a general loan market and it is found to be practical. The Kingdom cannot be lent unless the need for loans can be met on a general loan market, so that it can be met. A senator has read this law backwards. I wanted to make that point before the case was referred to the Committee. After that, I would like to thank the members of the Parliament again for their objective discussion and expect the situation to smell well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u72	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 30/2007, the crews of Icelandic fishing vessels, guardships, cruise boats, and other ships, which meet requirements for designing and transport. Hv. The transport and environment committee is moving it around. The bill is made up at the Department of Transport and Transport and is moved by the Environment and Transport Committee by the Minister's Request. The bill suggests changes to the law No. 30/2007, the crews of Icelandic fishing vessels, patrols, cruise boats, and other ships, with subsequent changes (under sea layers). On the one hand, a change in requirements for designing land and tow ships and marine farms is proposed, and a change in provisional regulations is provided to the hands of 30 doxorubicinators of the highest seaship rights to operate on ships of 12 meters and less in coastal cruises in a manner that gives them the rights of ships 15 meters and less in coastal cruises. The changes you have are: 1st par. The following changes will take place on the 19th floor. The law: a. Following the word "salvation vessels" to the 1st issue of Article 3. comes: land and tow ships and marine farms. b. Instead of the word 'Bearing Ships,' in 2nd issue, 3 mg. There is a ship according to this sentence. c. At 3 mg. will add to the new case, as follows: Ministers shall make a recommendation for the transport of land and tow ships and marine farms in the Regulation. 2.g. Instead of the words ◯12 meters and shorter to the 1st verse 4 mg. The provision of a temporary law is: 15 meters and shorter. Section 3. This law has already been valid. I'd like to account only for the design of land and tow ships and marine farms. In recent years, larger ports have purchased more efficient combustion and tow ships than previously used at most of the land's ports. The change has resulted in a much larger effect on the machines than has previously been identified. Since there are no special restrictions on the design of such ships, there are the same requirements for these ships as for fishing ships. Good reason can be said to suggest that land and tow ships are at work rather than ships. Travel is equal, short distance and role is monotonous. Seaships assume that if there are two main engines on a ship, as is the case in many cases of land and tow ships, on the basis of their nature, their machinery is combined. Having two engines with two screws is desirable for the management of these ships and is greatly improved by their work, making a significant improvement in security. The proposed changes support ports in the management of sufficiently powerful nuclear and tow ships in order to expand the service of the growing ships to come to the country and greatly improve the services of the docks. It will then be easier to get the rights to control the machinery of these ships, but it has been difficult to get the rights to operate. The same evidence can be given for designing marine farms. It is a ship that cares for limited distances in limited fields. The ship's work on such crafts involves sailing to and from heifers, maintaining camera equipment, maintaining feed, monitoring fixtures, and caring for the general safety concerns of the stations and their employees. It has been difficult for the executives to operate as if an ocean vessel were involved. Only about 30 of the most qualified or so - called pungent testes. The recommendation for the 4 mg regimen has been provided. provision for temporary use with obligatory laws is not in accordance with Article 1. provision for temporary action requiring that legal advisers under older law maintain their rights uninhabited. Four. says, however, that by hand 30 bridges. Certificates should be issued to be captains of ships 12 meters and limited to registration duration in coastal cruises. According to the walking agency, a 30 - bridge measuring vessel has been identified. The size of each number is more than 40 feet [12 m] in length, and several of them up to 19 meters] in length. According to this, if we were to make a testimonial, it would not have been sufficiently careful that the size of a 40 - foot [12 m] ship was comparable to the size of the 30 - doll readings. To meet the hands of 30 bridges. The certificate is suggested: 1st to civil rights of 30 bridges. Ship management rights should be replaced by a 15-yard registration period instead of a 12-meter registration period to ships that are not the most measured doxorometers and 2nd Arms 30 bridges The management rights should be in accordance with their rights to the position of the ship's captain on the ships, which, according to the 2016/2017 shipping logs, are measured according to the number and size of 30 bridges. "although they are more than 15 meters [15 m] according to the registration period. These changes include a new level of rights to the management of Icelandic ships that replace the older level of rights. Only those who have 30 bridges. The right to command the ships shall have the right to be given up 15 meters of government rights. This is a black - and - white sun, which will fail when there is no longer a coat of such certicates. This legislation is presented in the name of the environment and transport committee. It is therefore not needed to refer to committees but to votes at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u73	A respectable president. This sounds like a first lecture, until you think about the role of land and tow ships. Their role is to heat in and attract cruise vessels with 5,000 people on board. This is a measure of demands for the man who does so. In my opinion, that's not a good approach. The person standing here is a misdirectedly at the ship's command. I don't know. I just feel like I'm starting to think about it. And that there is no further discussion on the committee, I think it's terrible. Of the fact that these boats are getting stronger and there are two main engines. There's a dot of its own, i.e. with the engineer, that doesn't necessarily have to put the machines together. That's a ridiculous rule. But as for the command of the ship itself, I can only see that we have to laugh outside the country when we send out a tin man to download the size of a passenger ship. That's what I'm worried about. Then there's the evidence here, i.e. that companies have found it difficult for a working ship, such as an ocean vessel, to do so, I think it's just a pay-or-employment thing. I don't think it's hard to get men in this if the companies are ready to pay. I don't think we should go over the demands because the companies aren't ready to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u74	V.E.G. President. Today, the rights of those usually captains of these boats - landboats and boats who have this job as a Marine - were reduced by new laws. That's being corrected. 30 of the largest boats, which may be up to 19 m in length, as indicated here - is reduced to 12 m. Hv. A senator who is a captain of the ship must realize that this would severely impair the rights of their captains. It is a major impairment by cutting up up to 7 m in their rights to control such ships. I'd like to point that out as the point of the matter. Regarding the stage, as shown on the bill, it is much less than if there is an ocean rights. There is also good logic in the bill for how much less this field is. It also states that the landboats have been expanding dramatically and that their engine forces have increased dramatically. So those who have steered the heat boats so far have been accessing the ports of a large ship on smaller boats, if anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u75	A respectable president. Simply put, in order to get the rights to manage the concerned boat, you need to sit down for a year in a class. So to hold on to these 30 tons of rights given here to every high school student from 1955-1983 - this was a possibility, and those men outside the community who took it can go to a shipping school and take a test of scrotum today, and thus they can get 30 tons of rights. The lung test does not teach us enough stability or anything to take as much responsibility as it is to build a cruise ship at sea, whether this is a sunset rules or not. A judge needs to be paid to solve this problem. This problem is not solved with legislation like this. She has to be more strict if anything is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u76	V.E.G. President. I want to point 'em. A senator who is trained as a captain of the ship may well have had rights that would soon take hold of him, but that is a very different situation today, and the senator knows it. On the other hand, I want - to come from a seaman's family, to have a father who was captain and two brothers trained by the ship, and therefore think I have some knowledge of this - the senator points out that it is one thing to have a test and another to have knowledge and experience. I assure the senator that the grown men who are now improving their loss of rights, even though at the time they have not had to sit as long in school, have knowledge, experience, and success in a career that I have full confidence in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u77	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA committee No. 46/2016 of change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention. A federal committee discussed the matter at their meeting and arranged for a meeting of representatives of the State Department and the Department of Environment and Resources. The decision by the European Commission is made to include three directives in the EEA Convention, which discuss the coordination of Member States of the rules for electromagnetic cohesion, equipment and protection systems intended for use in potentially explosive air and electric products used within certain tensions. The aim of the design is to conform to conditions that apply to the particular equipment. In this way, a defined agreement assessment should be used to ensure basic requirements and to attach CE markings to the relevant products and devices. The directives have already been implemented, and the Committee of State wants to justify the importance of the full implementation of the Conventional Treatments of the EEA. The committee suggests that the proposal will remain unconvinced and agrees on this on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u78	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the National Committee's Committee's Committee on the Re-use of Public Information Directive for confirmation of the decision made by the National Committee 361. The Commission reports on the issues and the legal environment, but this is a reduction of administrative warnings due to changes to be taken into account by our Member States in the European Economic Areas and related to the affairs of the information community. It is a matter of expanding an obligation to allow the renewal of all the data available to the public according to the information code. This re-use right, however, does not include author-created data. The field of values is like I say, expand and will even. include collections, e.g. Books and libraries. This also includes adjustments in the requirements for reimbursement, and it is clearly stated that there should be no greater charge than the cost at each request for reused use. In short, there was a position in the Foreign Affairs Committee on the payment of the case. This is as reflected in the results of the Commission's review that the implementation of the directive does not require that all available data be made available for re-use, and the implementation of the directive is not expected to have a significant impact on public income. It is then mandatory that during the implementation of the directive a clear law order has to be valid for the deposit of the relevant institutions involved in the matter. On the other hand, I refer to the committee opinion as it is in a Senate document. In the past, we have developed rules for the use of official information. This includes an expansion of its range, not a fundamental change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u79	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the National Committee's Committee's members on the Parliament's resolution of the decision made by a joint EEA Commission no. 121/2016 of change in II. Annex on technical regulations, standard testing and certification, and Annex X. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the Ministry of State and Department of Education and Culture. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 121/2016, of 3 June 2016, of the change in II. Annex and X. Annex (general Service) to the EEA Convention of May 2, 1992, and to implement the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2014/60/EU since 15 May 2014 on the submission of cultural barriers illegally transferred from Member States' territory and a change in Regulation (EU) No 37/2010. 1024/2012 (published). [[i.e.: Technical Regulations, standards, testing and certification]] On December 3, 2016, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative orders. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2014/60/EU directive implements 93/7/EEC to submit illegal cultural data from the Member State's domain and is aimed at emptying the force of values to cover any cultures defined by Member States as national worthation with artistic, historical and ancient value in the sense of 36.g. The European Union procedure covenant. The Foreign Affairs Committee claims that under the term cultural mines, natural monuments also fall. The 93/7/EECE directive is rarely used due to its limited range and is Directive 2014/60/EU including to correct this. In this context, according to information provided by the National Institute of Minjas of Iceland, no law has been tested. 57/2011, of cultural worth in other countries, since they went into effect. It is no longer required that cultures classified as national value meet the requirements of age and/or financial values for which they fall under the protection of the directive. The directive is also aimed at promoting increased and more efficient cooperation between Member States and the consistent application of the directive. Then there is the length of time required. This applies both to postponement and to assess whether cultures found in another Member State are considered cultural in the sense of the directive and to postpone treatment due to cultural review. Finally, the decree involves the obligation of values, to show that it has had proper care and vigilance at the bazaaring. The implementation of the directive calls for changes in cultural prices laws to other countries, No. 57/2011. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. This is done at Council 9 May 2017. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The members of Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnnardótttir Elinardóttir, Chairman of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, chairman of the Committee, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Ásta Helgadóttir Helgaótir, Birgístítítítítir Haraldsdóljörnótir, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Teitur Björn Rósa Björk Einarsson, all. Senators. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u80	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee on Council Reconfirmation of the Co-ordination of the European Commission No. 194/2016 about the change in XIX. Annexes for consumer protection, with the EEA Convention. The Commission has discussed the matter and has brought in guests from the State Department and the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 194/2016, of 23 September 2016, of the change in XIX. An Annex, for consumer protection, to the EEA Convention from May 2, 1992, and to enter three types of the Convention: 1st The Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council (EU) of May 21, 2013. 2. The Commission Regulation (EU) of July 1, 2015. 3. Council and Council Directive 21 May 2013 All of this is regulations and directives dealing with the solution to consumers. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative warnings to March 17, 2017. Therefore, according to Article 4, the presentation of the proposal by the Committee is considered to be in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. In summary, these regulations concern the following and first mention the Council and the Council's Regulation from 21 May 2013. It is designed to promote increased consumer protection in the European Economic Area and to respond to the lack of ways to resolve issues due to online sale or service. The Regulation establishes a comprehensive set of legislation on the European Economic Area on the solution to issues via electronic treatment. This will set up a central database which will be available in Icelandic for consumers and traders. The plan is that the database can solve issues that arise on the Internet, outside the courts, in a simple, efficient, rapid, and inexpensive way. Thus, the Netothal Society in this country will play the role of a national contact for the database. Second, it is the EU Regulation 2015/1051, which includes detailed protocols, as well as information guidelines, data management, etc. due to consumer communication, decision-making committees and the national competent authority with the central database laid down in the EU Regulation No. 524/2013. Finally, it is the directive that comes from the European Parliament and the Council to resolve the issues of consumers outside the courts. It is aimed at ensuring access to decision-making issues outside the courts. Thus, the directive recommends the general regulations for the solution of issues outside the rights. The directive obliges trade and services under the directive to become members of the simple and efficient measures for consumers to resolve any personal conflicts that may arise in business. In addition, the obligation for a state in the European Economic Area is to ensure that issues can be referred to outside courts. The NTSB is the role of such an attorney in the country, but there are also special NTSBs involved in a particular kind of service. This makes it clear that the proposal to make a resolution of the decision made by the European Commission serves the interests of consumers, especially with regard to consumers' purchases, and becomes the right consumers for online purchases and sales. Calls the directive's implementation on the change in cash pay laws, service purchase laws, and consumer purchase laws. Sets up a foreign legal committee to allow the proposal to be accepted. Under the heading, write why. Davíð Gunnlaugsson Sólveig Sólnardóttir Elinardóttir, Director of State Affairs, Róla Einarsson Bjarnason, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Birgir Björn, Teitur.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u81	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 215/2016 of change in XIII. and XX. Annex to the EEA Convention. A federal committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the State Department and the Environment and Resource Ministry. The decision of the joint EEA committee is aimed at implementing the EEA Convention on Council Regulation and Council of 2015/757 for monitoring, reporting and testing of carbon dioxide emissions from transport. The directive is designed to reduce the impact of greenhouse gases and set up systems to monitor carbon dioxide emissions from transport. There are then rules for careful monitoring, reporting and certification of carbon dioxide emissions in order to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide from transport. No ships are registered here on a country that falls under the scope of Regulation. The biggest change, therefore, will be an increasing port control to verify that the ships that arrived on board an monitoring programme but will be expected to fall under the scope of the Regulation will be submitted to the EFTA and the EEA monitoring agency. The committee suggests that the proposal will remain unconvinced and agrees on this on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u82	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 100/2016 of the change in XX. Annex on Environment on the EEA Convention. A federal committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the State Department of State and the Environment and Resource Ministry. The decision of the joint EEA committee is aimed at implementing the EEA contract of the European Commission's European Commission's decision to establish best available technologies (BAT), as per Directive 2010/75/EU, on emissions from industrial production of solely branch origin. The decision is intended to support the above industrial emissions directive. The decision provides the results of the best available wood production technology, which applies only to production in a factory that can produce more than 600 m3 per day. No Icelandic enterprise is known to fall under the scope of the decision. The committee suggests that the proposal will remain unconvinced and agrees on this on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u83	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program on a bill's transition to arms law, no. 16/1998, with subsequent changes (prescriptions for explosives, EU rules). The bill suggests changes in weapons, No. 16/1998, which are considered necessary to implement the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 98/2013, from January 15, 2013, on the market and on the use of explosives invented in the European Economic Area Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 269/2014, December 12, 2014. The above regulations are intended to establish a consistent bioavailability, marketing, management and use of the precursors. The purpose of the rules is to limit public bioavailability to certain materials listed in addition to the Regulation and to try to ensure the safety of the public. The rules include restrictions on the use of the materials, registration criteria, notification and monitoring due to them. In the existing bill, there is a ban on home-made bombs, and the use of explosives in explosives will be defined in weapons. In addition, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to state in the Regulation which premedication should be subject to the issue of reporting, that all transactions with certain explosives should be recorded and what criteria should be used when assessing the possibility of a suspicious business. Regarding the hearing of the committee: The Committee's meetings discussed the concept of the U.S. citizens and its definition according to the bill. The committee established a view that the concept could be too extensive, as part of the civil population needs to be allowed to use certain materials for its work or business purposes. Thus, the committee suggests that the term "general citizens " should be more accurately defined in 1 mg. a-arms 4. the bill so that citizens will be prohibited for reasons other than their sectoral, business or professions, to keep in place and use explosives that put the restrictions at higher concentrations than the limits required by the Regulation. The Commission notes that this change is in line with the objective of the Regulation being implemented, i.e. that citizens should be able to get lost, import, possess, or use such resources for legitimate purposes. The committee concluded that it is reasonable to specify only one person who would be assigned to receive reports of suspicious business ventures, but this report is expected to be sent to the head of the police, tolls, or other national contacts. The Commission agrees with the point of view and suggests the adjustment of the proposal, but it seems proper for the secretary to decide which contact will be in the Regulation. Then the commission was pointed out that the term could be defined as "further than any other world. " The committee points out that all equal weapons are not unique in arms law, No. 16/1998, and it is important to maintain a legal equilibrium. The committee also showed the viewpoint of a permit service. 3 mg 30. g. Armoured by the Marshal to the Chief of Police, this would be an advantage, and in line with other U.S. arms laws provided by the Chief of Police. The committee agrees that it is proper to consider whether a member of the arms - law permit party can be properly treated, but it feels that there is a need for closer observation. So the committee aims at the Ministry of Justice to take this issue further into consideration. The committee also suggests a minor variation in wording on 1 mg. a- and c-joints and 2 mgr. c-arms 4. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 to be consistent with the wording of the bill. This is acceptable to Mr. Oddný Harðardóttir, an officer of the Committee. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: At Section 4. a. Following the words "Cities of ordinary people " are prohibited in 1 mg. a-arms (27. g. A) come to a point other than their job, business, or profession. b. Instead of the word "poprits, " in 1 mg. a-arms (27. g. A) report: c. Instead of the words for the police chief, toll manager, or other contact at national bison, verses 1 and 2. b-joints (27. g. (b) and instead of the words "Second Marshal, customs manager, or other parties at a national convention, at 5 mg. c-populations (27. g. c) Come to national contacts set by the minister of the Regulation; and: national contact set by the secretary of Regulation. d. followed by the words ◆ a business venture with a precursor to 1st. c-populations (27. g. c.) Come on, let's go. To explosives. e. Instead of the word '-name'-b-joins 2.mg. c-populations (27. g. c) arrives: name. The Committee members are the members of the committee who agreed to accept this opinion: Álagg Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnjörnjörn Bearsdóttir, chairman of Nichole Leigh Mosty, author of the Year, Vilhjálmur the Leví of Gunnarsson, Björn Gjörn, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Pawel Bartoszek, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and Harðardóttir. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u84	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the General and Education Committee on bill to legalize the review of criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes. [[The defendant's electronic signature]] What is this about? This issue is about the fact that certain cases can be completed with an electronic signature, which then takes place in so - called iPads or iPads, often inside a police car. Is this true of all matters? No. This is true of relatively simple matters, which can be completed by confession and guilt. Why are they doing this? This is being done in order to improve the effectiveness of the police and to reduce the risk of making mistakes to fill out and double - ups when we put them back on the job. I'm prepared to explain to you from the General and Education Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Justice on the other hand and the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, as well as by the Marshal of the State. Then came a review from a member of the head of police officers who had a positive attitude toward the bill. It should also be noted that information came from Persian Protection yesterday with comments made to two articles, two points in the bill. I'm going to explain to them and respond to them here on a speech chair. First of all, Persian protection suggested that, instead of permission from a minister to set up a regulation on the implementation of electronic signing and delivery of a report, it would be required to have a minister do so. Some members of the committee have discussed the matter with a minister, and there is a clearer desire to set such a law, so we have no reason to assume that this warrant will be replaced. Second, Persian protection made it possible to suggest that a report was issued electronically. Then Persian protection wanted to make it clear that it was meant to be handed over to the defendant electronically. A report presents a very clear resolve. It says: Among other things, by e - mail signing the defendant in the understanding of this article, it refers to signing for a screen or using electronic documents. In the case of such electronic signing, the defendant is expected to be presented with a report for the fractions involved in the electronic language, i.e. by e - mail, electronic document at home bank, or other similar, loyal, and authentic ways. At any rate, that understanding is clear to the fact that this can be applied to the defendant. So I continue on the committee opinion, the bill has suggested changes to the law No. 88/2008, of the criminal treatments that increase the effectiveness of the police's smaller budget by simplifying the operation, increasing performance and speed of handling. The bill suggests that police may be allowed to have the defendant sign an electronic report at the scene as well as to provide an electronic police report. In addition, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to give more careful consideration to the implementation of electronic signing and dispensing of a report in the Regulation. At a meeting of the Committee, the current work programme was reviewed on smaller issues, i.e. in cases where the penalty is guilt and the defendant commits to wrongdoing, and how the planned change will affect it to simplify it. Police are expected to use iPads in handling these cases. The Commission agrees that the current legal modification is more efficient and is streamlined. The committee also discussed the safety of communications and personal protection issues. It was reported that communication was encrypted. Security has been implemented, but the committee believes that it is important to consult with Persian protection. It is emphasized that such a procedure meets the safety and character protection requirements. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under these writings of Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, President Pawel Bartoszek, flier, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason son of Aarna, Leví Gunnarsson, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Sunna, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Jónsson Ingónsson and Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u85	A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? I am among those of the majority opinion, but I had not received a review of the Persian Protection that has now been received, so I wanted to make a few comments about the matter. In the case of the committee, it was asked whether this planned process, this proposed legal adjustment, had been under Peritoneal protection, and it was observed that this was not the case. So I would discuss the case with myself by simply suggesting that in a member of the Committee that Peritoneal Protection should specifically be reported and did not see any further problems on the matter, which is needed and good, it is great that we are hurrying up to our officers by technicalization. Most of the good things are far from there. However, in view of the fact that there are three comments made by Perone Protection, I want to recognize my stand and my stand. paritaprevir Björn Leví, son of Gunnarsson, that we will want this case back to the Committee in order to hear from Personal Protection how it feels that we can improve this bill so that it will now be in the best interests and protection as best of the management of personal information. All I want to do is make a statement from Peritoneal Protection as long as possible. A senator and executive for Pawel Bartoszek may not have tore anything in particular, but that was the last Persian protection comment, with permission of presidents: ▪Personan protection makes that observation in Article 1. The bill, which discusses the submission of a report, does not identify the recipient. ... In addition, it should be noted that it may be associated with a special safety risk if the current reports are sent electronically but e.g. In e - mail, it may make a mistake that it was written in the wrong e - mail address. Is it clear that a structure needs to be molded for this reason and is natural that the text of the Mosaic Law reflects it? It may then be concluded that it is not only possible to discuss the implementation of the regulations for the State and its deliveries but also that such regulations should be placed in place. So Persónuvemd proposes the third sentence. 1st par. The bill reads: The conduct of an electronic signing and dispensing report in the Regulation should be consulted in more detail. Mr. President, I think it's worth a lot of attention. So I simply wanted to express my views to them that, while of course, I am very perfunctory in this matter, I believe that there is good reason to consider it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u86	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Sunna Ævarsdóttir for her comments. I want to understand a little bit that when preparing for the transfer of this case yesterday, I had not been exposed to this view of Perponist, since it was first received yesterday, and still somewhat after the deadline that had been given, so that is perhaps why we could not take it into account in the committee work. Since then, I've talked to you about what. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir on her reaction to it. I'm sorry, I didn't have time to discuss it with you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. I apologize to her for not being able to do this, but in the light of her opinion that there is a basis for taking the case to a committee, I would like to, of course, try to maintain the broadest and best support for the case that has been supported by all members of the committees. So I direct to this meeting of the General Assembly that the case will then be referred back to the General Information Committee between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u87	A respectable president. I appreciate those comments. No doubt we will find a successful solution. Just like what? I had not noticed this comment until today when the matter came to mind on the council program and was examined again. I believe we can find an easy and successful solution for this which would not take long on a global and educational committee so that we can ensure that the safety of the citizens is not unnecessaryly compromised by unsurpassed legislation, which, of course, is not the intent of the lawgiver on this matter. Other than that, I thank you for those tips. We must find something funny out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u88	A respectable president. I give an explanation for more part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to correct the change in growth and prices laws on Iceland's Secret Bank, the treaties of consumer loans, and the criminal mortgage laws (the loans associated with foreign currency). The nominee, which is on the roof. 771 is accompanied by a modification motion on deck. 72. At a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, representing the SEC, a neighbouring agent, from the Federal Association of Financial Services and the Federal Bank of Iceland. In addition, there were some reports in the poll. The bill suggests that loans related to foreign currency will be permitted with certain limitations. A consumer's credit will depend on his earnings in the loan - related currency, can produce substantial changes in the payment rate due to changes in interest of interest or financial guarantees that significantly reduce the risk of currency. Iceland's pay centre will be permitted to limit loans to financial status. The above article will discuss seven articles of the bill. I don't think there's any reason to specifically explain it in a speech chair, it's all part of the committee's opinion. The proposed ten changes are proposed in the bill. They are made up of the adjustment proposal and are partly explained in the committee's study. I don't think there's any reason to track it any further. Much of that explains itself. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted as a change to a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was away from the case, but he writes under warrants in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. This is done at the General Assembly on May 11, 2017. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, executive manager, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndjörn, Bradar Níelsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson. It's more of a part of the Economic and Business Committee. Other than that, I refer to the judicial committee as well as to the proposed changes. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u89	Madam President. I would recommend my share of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, U.S. Federal Bank laws, consumer loan laws and home loan laws to consumers (a loan associated with foreign currency). This is a subject that has been discussed many times before at the General Assembly. There is considerable controversy about this. It is primarily about loans associated with foreign currency, so - called success loans, which raised debates about this subject and have raised controversy here in the early stages. The bill suggests that if a person has sufficient income to live under the heavy financial burden of loans, he or she will be able to cover the cost of a large deal of loans. It is considered less important that this bill is being paid for the access of wealthy people who earn money to live under subsidies, borrowing that will not be available to others. The strong incentive to take such loans is that interest in abroad is much lower than there, as we all know. In this country, we have had a considerably higher incidence than any of our major business countries. There are a number of reasons I'm not going to trace here, but it has to do with both the currency we have here in the country and just as much as the interest here has been that has been considerably greater than in our major business countries. By taking on the money in this country, borrowers can take in considerable interest. This gain is not costly for society. Iceland's Federal Bank is less effective if people are able to borrow gangstas on interest rates that have nothing to do with the fruit that the tidlabanki Iceland decides on at one time. On the contrary, others who cannot afford to borrow such loans will have to endure more on the side of the money policy and pay more interest. High - quality loans from undefeated loans can also enhance gang swings and increase financial instability. It is likely that many of them will at the same time seek to buy a currency in order to minimize money if a dollar starts to fall. It exaggerates the reduction in the value of imported goods and thus enhances inflation. So this could increase the insurance debt of traditional borrowers. It is stated that the Federal Republic of Iceland has the authority to establish loan policies on loans associated with foreign currency to non-employers, especially if there is evidence that the loans can affect financial status. Therefore, an appropriate national receiver must be available for appropriate action can be taken in time. The minority highlights what Iceland's Federal Bank has stated that he is given a clear commission to use the national economy system. A bill on the bill points out that the EFTA Institute of Observation considered the U.S. law to be a law against privacy insurance to be incompatible with the EEA Convention's free capital flow principle. However, it is not that the Agency has required to save the cost of undefeated loans. Therefore, the decision to implement this, to react in this way to the opinion of the EFTA Agency, is political and cannot be justified by referring to responsibilities to the EFTA monitoring agency. Thus, in short, the bill will reflect a political decision to pay for the access of wealthy people to the inexpensive foreign funding that will not be available and will be, if it goes badly, at the expense of other members of the community. So the lesser part cannot support this matter. It may not be necessary to surprise anyone here who listened to a discussion with 1st. and has watched the case and its progress in the early stages. It has to be said, as it is, that in the present government, there has apparently become more things for granting these loans, since the greater part could not be achieved in the last government that was placed here. So these loans to a particular group of material people in society are written entirely into the account of the modern government. Under this view, which I have now gone over with several introductory thoughts of myself, wrote: Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir's daughter, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u90	Madam President. I don't have much to add to the opinion of my parts, which my assistant, Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir, signed for me and me, and Pirata, where I was abroad when the committee was closed. However, I wanted to step in and say that a series of events seems to have been a bit strange in this case when a certain journey was being made in spring to raise currency capitals by our fine currency and then to handle this case, which is going on to authorize loans in foreign currency. This happens both before some kind of organization or on the interest level in the country. This explains the danger resulting from the growth in the minority opinion, that in many countries growths are much lower than here, even more than 5%, or so, if you compare Icelandic loans with loans in continental Europe. For example, 5% of loans are sufficient to produce very strong incentives for people to start growing in some way. In addition, these loans are being limited only under very few circumstances, which makes it extremely dangerous. This points to Iceland's Secret Bank, which, in her opinion, said that it would be a serious risk for the public and economy if it didn't go through, which is very strange precisely because of this strange sequence. There are a great deal of information on this subject, both from stakeholders in the financial sector, but from, for example, about that. The consumer groups, which make you wonder if this is not just another example of running off in some form of resistance, especially in this case where some sort of mistake is being corrected - or not a mistake in the light of the collapse - which was made to the EFTA agreement in which the duties we are supposed to be expected have really not been met. Now the race exists, and it fixes without all the criteria being fixed first, so we're sure that when we open it, we'll do it right. I say, and I've previously said in the past discussion on this matter, that we should wait on this operation until we have reached a link to the interest difference just so that we are not creating the tremendous risk of this matter. It has also been noted that this is going very far in opening up loans in foreign currency, that it can be opened very limited in order to meet the EEA Convention regulations. Instead, they are being opened significantly more, just as it seems to be in behalf of those who have more money between their hands. If this becomes the reality, as appears to be the case, the threat of growth in this country has become considerable, and there is another kind of conflict that can once again bring us into financial trouble in this country. If this bill becomes legal now, it must be written to those who vote for it and accept the conduct of the case. But I would love to put this case on ice, that we wait for it and make it a country's interest item, a decrease in the rate of consumer loans in Iceland, and then we can accept this case, because in itself there's nothing wrong with it, it's just the timing that's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u91	Madam President. I recommend the Committee of Economic and Business Committees on the bill to legalize the disposal of nurses' Pension Fund and subsidies on the Bank of Human Resources. 779. This is a relatively simple case, but the bill suggests that the nurses'Pension Fund will be dropped and the fund will be combined with the Bank of Pension Services. However, the post-muneration fund for the workers of Iceland's Road Bank is suggested to be laid. The funds pay the rights of the approved fund. The State Department of Pension is concerned with calculating rights ratios. The reviews of the bill, the few received, were all positive. The committee agrees to suggest that the bill be approved. Smári Mccarthy was away from the case. In addition to this reference work, here is why. Councilmen of Sigurbjörnsdóttir Arfrebjörn, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Katrín of Steindór, Valdimarsson of Jándím, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfredur, the Rósa of Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolf, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u92	Madam President. I come here to express general support for the fulfillment of this matter. Sadly, I was not able to attend to the hearing on a committee, but it seems that this is a case that is somewhat consistent with the pension fund and all those interested in it. So I can agree with the majority opinion and look forward to the success of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u93	Madam President. I'd like to step into this situation at the end of the line. When it has been discussed about the unity of pension funds or subsidence, just as it is expected that the removal of the law on the farm's Pension Fund is something to consider. Of course, I can't pass, even if I'm not going to disagree because it's wise to drop this pension fund or combine it in the way suggested here, at least On the basis of the assumptions given and the reviews. I quote what is stated in the law, and it brings attention to the fact that when it comes to trying to combine the pension rights of public employees and the general employment markets, there was a set basis behind them. Because we're dealing with a national financial programme, there is really no attempt to level the ideal public employees with the general population. It has not been proposed to try to create any stage art or such, since all the discussions about government employees and their pension rights were better than that of the public market, which meant that the pay was in some way lower, of course not absolute than anything else. But it has been that way over the years. I think there's a reason to keep it up, as I was on a financial committee that discussed the pension business and how to present itself in that subject and the increase in donations for pension. I just wanted to remind you of this because I think it's a responsibility to give up the pension rights, as it was. Although this bill is about uniting or building a pension fund, it does not change that underlying is the problem we've already discussed here, i.e. how to evaluate the terms and rights involved, i.e. the rights that people are giving up, in effect, by submitting to equalizing their pension rights to the general labour market, to the fact that they have not been analysed. I just wanted to make that decision in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u94	I'm going to let myself go from then on. paritaprevir Here, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir Bjarkey, quoted from a reference to the American Nurses Association. It says, by permission of the President: Since the funds are rapidly decreasing and nurses who accept pensions are far more than those paying for the fund, changes are likely to be needed. It was evident that at the beginning of 2018, a behindpriestial payer of the funds would have been needed, and such arrangements would have been difficult for clinics. Then it says, with permission from the highest power. President: Also in the bill, it is safe that no L.H. body member loses the money in order to bring together the funds. FIH expresses delight in this and believes that if the bill is approved, the LH and LSR cohesion will be for good. I think it's in the Senate documents after a speech or two. A senator earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u95	Madam President. In view of what was said here, it was exactly what I said. I wasn't trying to belittle the fact that the fund would be united or the bill that is being passed here would be in the light of a rumor - and then I'm talking not just about the pension rights but about that. Remuneration rights. We discussed this in the budgetary committee when these cases occurred, because this is part of it. It's not just equalizing the pension rights. Part of the fact is that the pay of public employees was reduced because the pension rights were so rich. They know why. A senator as well as I was, and that was what I wanted to draw attention to. There's no attempt here to, at least, I see it. without - we know that there are up to 30% differences between the terms of some public sector and the general in which it can be appreciated. Then we have classes where we have no idea what we're going to aim for. That's what I wanted to draw attention to. For example, in the national budget, there are no significant increases expected for public employees to meet these requirements. But it's true that the pension fund is not sustainable as it is today. It has also taken place on a budget committee, and it has been a long time before. I also wanted to make a mistake that was what I was talking about. I think it's a responsibility. The textbook Union, as well as the BSRB and other members who said exactly what I'm saying when we were discussing the pension rights, found that it was a real disappointment that all these years were not even attempted to try to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u96	Madam President. I don't need this very far. I hear we're in shape with each other, me and what. Senator. The key point here is that by canceling the laws involved here, there are no rights being cut, they stay. The most likely evidence is that the rights are being cared for and that they can be guaranteed even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u97	Madam President. I was going to have my place studied after the last talk, but in view of the discussion, I thought that it was a reason for me to come and put a word in a bag. First of all, it is important not to equalize the changes that are now being made and the changes associated with the farmers' Pension Fund. The case at Farmer's Penitentiary seems to be primarily the failure of certain rights by removing the law and despite any promises made and guarantees made. By means of the Constitution's special rights, that these impairments will not affect special widows of farmers who have been paid from the Farmer's Pension Fund. It seems to be still present, and it has not been unfounded with the evidence there, since it is a special authority, not about the rights of widows, but about the rights that their husbands had. Because it is not a real possession, it is not clear that it will be used in this way. But there's another discussion that we'll come up with when we take over the farmers' Pension Department. The other is that in December. a certain operation was to try to fix the accumulated insurance misdemeanors or the angle that had formed in them by moving more than 100 billion dollars. to the Department of Pension of Government Services. It was clear to everyone who had considered it properly that this would be a temporary redundancy that would not work in the light of very many factors. This limp will probably continue to increase. At the same time, however, there was a decrease in pension rights with government employees, a considerable number of people in that country. It was done, like a coon. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir arrived without any remuneration, which may have been the first action to take rather than to go to court with vague promises of future pay corrections that have not been planned in financial or financial policies. And it will probably never be expected if the current government policy continues. Because these rights impairments are taking place now and the insurance suit will continue to grow at the head of state officials' Pension, and likely the patch we are here for just for a little correction for a little while, but then will need further correction afterwards, is a good reason for us to start examining the whole pension system, to determine from the foundation, to see if there is no better religion that we can use to try to ensure its progression to the future. People are getting old. The society is getting old. The great crowd of pyramids is gradually turning around. For good reason, I have had it distributed here in the Senate arrangement for a full reexamination of the pension system. Sadly, the program has not been scheduled, but it seeks to answer the following question: How can we make this system go on for a long time? In view of the discussion here, there is good reason to mention and remind us that this system will likely collapse completely. There's been a collapse before. It has been provided with some transfers and patches. But if we don't take the whole point of reevaluating our pension system in the years ahead - the sooner we get the better - we look ahead of huge expenses and finally some sort of collapse. I'd rather not. So I hope we can take that discussion, whether by taking my suggestion on the program or in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u98	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal for the Icelandic loan fund for a loan student who is a borrower. The committee discussed the matter and obtained a client's appointment. The bill suggests a change in laws that involve borrowing, but attending school is intended for students who intend to pursue college but who have dropped out of high school or graduate from school at a 3rd stage and therefore have to add to some form of education in order to satisfy college admissions. Substitution is not the value of a student's test, so it usually does not give you the right to study at any college other than those who organize the study of the subject. The bill suggests that there will be improvements under the loan loan loan to students because of going to the country. As a result of pursuing a university education, the opportunity for a group to study is also being increased. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the fund be allowed to lend a student loan to attend as planned by an established University in Iceland. The Committee made indications, including from students, that by the condition of going abroad, there was no loanable option for students to pursue studies that were restricted only to extracurricular education. Also noted were the lack of similar loans for students from abroad to study in such ways as learning. The majority of them feel that the same rules for studies that are organized by established university schools, whether here or abroad, are essential and therefore suggest a change in the bill. In the new provisional arrangement of Article 2. The bill is also suggested that those attending abroad will continue to have the right to complete their studies in the same credit fund. In view of the changes in the greater part of the amount of education required, whether here or abroad, a greater proportion of the items contribute to the deportation of the arrangement. It was then presented to the committee various views that using the bill, it was under way that a general high school book study is fortunate for some students, but not for others, and that it was a natural course to offer this study in high school. The majority claim that with the bill it is not being proposed to any change to the current project; it is only being resolved. The majority of these points are addressed to the Ministry of Education and Culture as well as to the impact of international reformation at the full reexamination of a law on the Board of Education, available at the Ministry of Education. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes taken here. Under the definition of writing, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Pawel Bartoszek, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u99	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal from the memory of the General and Education Committee for a change in the law on the Icelandic Board of Education, No. 21/1992 on credit. The bill is not long, but it is important, and it certainly is not the emphasis the smaller part would have wanted to see. We have made significant comments on how the matter has been handled on the committee, asking for a review of whether the bill was concerned with the constitution and the 90th rule. Sadly, that was not the case. A respectable president. I'd like to say right away that we'll want the case to go to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to give more than the opportunity to fulfill our wish. The bill suggests changes in the law on the loan fund of the Icelandic student who is in the interest of the loan program. The bill's report shows that the bill's motive is that a report by the State Accounting Research Fund, the Icelandic student's loan fund, and the development of loans from June 2011 made serious remarks to the loan fund because of going to school. In addition, missionary studies, also known as primary education, are in nature high school studies for students who for some reason have not completed high school studies by formal high school, professional, or student's. The study thus falls, not under high school law, but by university law, but by the latter law, it states that university schools are permitted, that the Ministry's fend for approval, offer to pursue higher education for those who do not meet academic standards. The training program is conducted in cooperation with a university or university or with its roads, which establish the rules and guarantees its benefits and does not depend on the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The study is available for three private schools here: Keil, University of Bifrost, and University of Reykjavík. What has been the principal position of the field course for traditional high school, whether in daily or at the end of high school, has been the fact that there have been loans to the School of Lárnas, both for the advancement and for the school expenses. The vast majority of students have made good use of that possibility even to make full use of their potential to borrow money before college. The report, referred to at the outset of this report, directs the Government's review to the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that legal regulations are adhered to, that a professional committee will be appointed on loans and set up on loans. A government review also suggested to the Icelandic loan fund that the funds were paid on loans, ensured the level of high school students, and would bind the right to a certain age and money, revised their rules of student loans for learning abroad, and regularly informed creditors about their financial commitments. Substitutions have not only been discussed in these reports but also in their report The Early Study of Icelandic Schools and have also published follow-up reports of these reports. There, at their State Review, they made recommendations to the Ministry that it reduced the basic study to high school and improved the study law. We agree that the importance of clear recovery depends on what the loan fund of Icelandic students does, that the loan fund is not borrowing without improvement. However, we make serious comments that with the bill it is not becoming the advice of the Kingdom Accounters on loans of the fund in order to attend, and little or nothing is done with the other guidelines of the Agency. A government review believed that either the loans should be totally off the line or the credit laws should be adjusted in accordance with performance and offered to all students high school loans. Commenting on how the Breiðholti School was treated, the principal of the Columbia School noted that only allowing loans for advancement and school fees to some secondary high school courses is being further established by the order that general high school book studies will be loanable for some students and not others. This simply states how serious it is that the greater part has refused our request to obtain a state lawyer or other specialized member of the Constitution to discuss this precisely as to the constitution, whether it is breaking equal numbers with this bill. I restate on what is stated here, that according to a report on State Review, it is estimated that there is probably a major particular position of extracurricular high school education to lend loans for advancement and fees rather than the study itself. Consider, for example, a description of the Bifrost web - a fine school, a fine school - where the school is being discussed. There are three nuclear branches, Icelandic, mathematics, and English. Then there are four emphasises, literature, law, dancing, and philosophy. I don't know any better than this is a traditional book study at Icelandic Public School. Thus, in the memory of the section, we simply deny that a college education, which is actually a high school education in private schools, is being promoted in this way to study public high school. The loan of Icelandic students is designed to ensure student equality, but not to maintain the ideologies of a so - called multiplicityd form in the school system. We simply see here, in my opinion, that the government's starving policy against the public high school system is once again appearing in this bill. The bill also suggested that a minister continue to increase the level of uncharacteristic students by banning loans because of going abroad. According to a reference to the United States of England, many students have made good use of this possibility, e.g. student in construction technology in Denmark We also express deep concern over the inexplicability of the law in general around the field of the study and the basic education. It may be that, in a discussion in the Committee, students may not be able to identify themselves as attending school does not include general college rights, as a student's test of college does, but the rights to study at university are tied to the university or based on contracts at a single university. Thus, a student may have paid a substantial amount of money for high school to gain the right to go to college but may discover that the study does not meet the standards of study that he or she wants to attend. So we agree with the suggestions of the greater part of removing the provisional regulations of the bill. To meet these concerns and to respond to the comments published in these reports, we offer a series of adjustments. I think that all of us must agree on the importance of meeting the students who for some reason have not completed high school studies and do so so so that they can be treated evenly with all who intend to complete education until they are able to go to college. So we propose the following adjustment: In accordance with further instructions on distribution procedures, the Council is permitted to lend students student loans to leave school, up to 60 standard high school units, if the study is approved by a minister. This is simply a suggestion that the high schools of the country, around the country, also offer a field education or a primary education that will be loanable to the loans. I expect there to be no fees even for hundreds or thousands or millions. We also suggest a change of college law so that it is clear that the university will include the rights needed to go to college so that any subsequent education will be completed with a student's test. Under this opinion, Eygló Harðardóttir writes as manager and boy. The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Leví Gunnarsson's son, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir. The Brjánsson S., an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. I really hope that these adjustments will be agreed so that we can make sure that we don't stand apart from schools who intend to offer general high school literature; that we can attend this study around the country, but not just here on the southwest corner as it has been, although many of the schools have offered a fine or distant and spread study; that we simply turn off this path that we see here and again where our ideal public schools are under attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for her speech. What's this all about? It's about the fact that there's been insufficient evidence that there's not enough improvement for the kind of practice that's come to loans to attend these schools that have been done for a long time. The tips that came to our attention were that even such a loan would be made only in the near future if there were to be such a change in law. Materially, the bill is about improving the process that has already taken place. Then there may be some way we can reason on how to put these things a little different. There may be some way I can agree. A senator and a lot of what is presented in a minority article on a professional basis under the training program, under its laws, on how it would be convenient for them to take part in higher schools, and, in fact, in the form of a policy on going to college, they can have to go to college in cooperation with college, so that authority is there, but it has not been new. It's the first thing to do. Of course, if the committee were to produce the new proposed proposals, they were to suggest an enormous denature change in the state of LIN as it is today and on the bill that has been proposed. Of course, that is a discussion we can take. But here we are solving a problem that has not been considered sufficiently improved for the projects that have been carried out so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u101	A respectable president. It may well be here to be reacting, which is indicated by the way things have been done. However, when we receive repeated repeated indications from the National Reconclusion that the procedure has not been accepted, the Ministry's proposal is to establish it instead of applying the laws given by the Government Accounting Board. She suggested that we stop borrowing or make sure that students are equal at a high school in general. We are simply putting in that the Minister has a warrant, with the approval of a minister of course, to frame what qualifications we are speaking of here. It also says that you must have finished a certain number of high school units so that they can be classified as going to school. But we are simply following the advice offered by the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, some years ago. Thus, it is strange to come in here with this proposal, except, as we suggest, that it is part of the government's quest to reveal the high school system as if it has reflected in plans without any logical support for unity in a very well - developed public school. This is once more, when it is simply possible to say: We are going to treat all students who take similar studies so that they can complete their rights to continue their studies. It speaks of a fundamental change; I certainly hope so. A senator is not saying that it is a fundamental change that we treat people in a comparable position. It is the foundation of the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to make it right, so there's a possibility, that this wish has been agreed to this part of my life to have a state attorney look into it. However, it is true that in the greater part, we did not rightly consider waiting for that opinion to be settled. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to one reason because she, along with other members of my section, presented a book that I'm going to read: It is critical that the General and Education Committee will not be granted the request of my section to postpone the case until a government attorney's opinion on whether the proposed legislation on borrowing will pass the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. If there is doubts as to whether there is a constitution, it is the responsibility of each senator to ensure that this is in harmony with his word of honor. With reference to this, the minority will not resolve the case from the committee. I was thinking about booking against this, but I think it's good TV to deal with this problem. A senator here. One is to believe that if we want to have the arrangement for borrowing a high school course. It may be a human opinion, but I feel that the legislature of the legislature may be limited if it cannot decide to lend a loan without giving a loan to another person at the same time. Whatever our circumstances, the Lawgiver must have made room for these things, regardless of whether we want it to be new. People have talked about various things. People have talked about limiting study to age. It's a discrimination, of course. There are a lot of laws on the loan fund of Icelandic students that include some sort of legal discrimination separate from those entitled to a student's loan and those who don't have it. We may conclude that this discrimination is not to be shared, but it is possible to circumcise the Lawgiver with a narrow suggestion that he cannot make that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u103	A respectable president. It is good to hear that the greater part has decided to grant our request, that it would have been sooner, so that we would not have had to stand here and discuss it, even though the senator believes it is a good TV. The curve and the frame we have as senators are completely clear, that's the constitution. That's what we have. I'd like to remind the senator that we at the General and Education Committee are dealing with a case -- I had wished we had given it a little better attention instead of hurrying to drag it out of the commission as we do here -- which turns to ban discrimination. That is exactly what we want to help people in a comparable position to receive comparable rights. Here's not the smaller part to suggest that everyone get a student loan. We are simply saying that all high school should have the same opportunity to offer a general book study on a certain level of ability to attend. That's what we're calling out for, that we're going to do as we were in our surveillance agency, the Generalist Bureau, suggested, but not running after a suitable policy, as I named the Minister's starving policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u104	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the points presented in the opinion of the General and Education Committee. The leading list suggests that a so - called high school preschool student who is offered a loan at a certain private university may be borrowed. Thus, public studies in high school would be borrowed for those who study private schools and not public high schools. In 1st. a law on the loan fund of Icelandic students says that the role of the loan fund is to guarantee those who agree with the law an opportunity to study without regard to the economy. The adjustment presented here is contrary to these goals. It is designed to restrict the level of equality for study and offers, e.g. On the basis of discrimination due to residence, economic, or family status. It would be more reasonable to believe that all schools at high school offered high school so that all students at the advanced school would expect to take a student's loan, not just those who study the private schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u105	A respectable president. I welcome the changes that are already in the greater part, not to rule out students from abroad. In the smaller parts, we would like to add some more adjustments to make the effort to get a little clearer. Then I'd like to explain what these changes are all about, especially the switch and the change in college law, where we're going to complete our studies by student's test. That is exactly what is required of those who are going to go to school, for those students who are going to have 140 high school units and for those who are going to have 60 units left to go to school. Thus, a student completes a course of 200 units, which is sufficient to graduate a student's nuclear test. It is only natural, then, that a student who has completed 200 high school classes of schooling has actually completed the stage or third step he is taking off and into college. So we naturally explained to students the right thing to do when they have finished attending school and even if they have a student's test, they may be able to approach other university institutions if they do. Who knows but college disappears? High school has disappeared, perhaps some rights that do not exist anymore because there is no school or there is no track. At least the students would have at least earns the rights to have a student's degree, a third class graduation, and could enter any university that defines the permanence required of their courses of education, in view of the premise they set. The suggestion is fully an explanation of the student's rights and intended to promote study and provide a better frame for the process that students can fall into. These are the older students who are there for the funeral school. The study process at that time can become disturbed, even more so than at other times. By ensuring that the degree is achieved, students have much more freedom in choice of the next step; they are not bound by one university, which sets them on a certain closed path to university access. We recommend that the General support this level of rights. Other than that, it looks good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u106	Madam President. I must agree with other speakers and members in the minority of the General and Education Committee in this case. I just wanted to introduce to you my entry of the General and Education Committee on the matter and the attitude of any of the people here to the questions that arise on whether this bill, as it is presented, will be met by the Constitution's equal jurisdiction. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek came into the past to suggest that the changes in the memory of the object were the denatitude of the current system. Okay, sure, we have some adjustments, and we're suggesting that this be done differently than the other part suggests. Also remembered why. A senator stated that the committee's case said that it could no longer be borrowed from LIN to attend unless recovery is obtained from the General Assembly. I'd like to stop for a minute before I get to the booking as much as I can. A senator was so good to read earlier, and I don't have to repeat just yet. With regard to these two matters, it is the custom, first of 40 years, to lend a loan to a student loan. As a matter of fact, the way this tradition has been formed has not been improved but has been with a people without it. As we know, once the Commission has performed something without improvement for a long period of time, the possibility of continuing the procedure may develop. Thus, those who are subsequently not able to receive the same treatment from the Commission, who had not previously improved and now intend to stop borrowing because it has not improved, considered it to be the discrimination and violation of administrative law or administrative rights. This is what worries me, Madam President. It is not to be remembered that government agencies can come to counsel and threaten to arrange their administrations in some way differently in order to achieve their will, i.e. that an institution has ceased to perform a certain service that it has rendered in order to force certain conclusions on the Icelandic legislature council. I don't think that's an acceptable job, and I'm worried that it won't pass our administrative rights. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's one thing. So I'm not worried that if this cure doesn't exist, there's some right to stop borrowing. That's why I can't see why we're so in a hurry. I don't feel that the Allied Council of Iceland is threatened that the loan fund of Icelandic students would loan to attend as it has been for 40 years without improvement. Then there's another, about the Constitution's equal rule. I'm not convinced that if we're going to legalize this project, which was possibly never really in accordance with a constitution, I don't know, I'm not an expert on that field, but as I see it, it'll raise some serious doubts if we're going to lend the loan money, we're going to give the loans this improvement and we're going to put in our songs that some schools that give certain services are loans while other schools that don't lend out. The only difference is whether it's private school or public school. Think, too, of the difference, it costs a lot to go to a private school, there's school fees, and there's even a loan for them, the other schools don't have that high school fee, but they still don't include advance loans from the LIN. It's worth considering whether such a project will be violated by the Constitution's equal rights. Out on it goes the booking of the memory of the part. It goes on through our meditation and our request to get the opinion of a state lawyer whether the proposed legislation violates the Constitution's equality laws. I'll reiterate that, of course, our request has been made to send questions to a state attorney there. However, the book turned to the conclusion that the decision was not to wait for a state lawyer. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszeks doesn't see him as a reason to wait for the hearing before the case is settled, whether he was available from a committee, or from a council, I don't know, but I know that we're interested in getting that opinion before we see any way to provide this case with some sort of conduct at the council. As the book shows, it is important for us to have doubts as to whether a legal constitution is a responsibility for each senator to make sure that it is. That is completely in accordance with our commitment to the Constitution. It goes on and on and on, in part, the minority's opinion of each other. It is based on two very important rules that we have in our legality, that is the legal order, and that is the equality and the handling of corpses, as well as the different kinds of cases. If we have a comparable study that will not be treated in a similar way when it comes to students'becoming skeptical as to whether the Constitution's equal rule is being carried out by this law. Then we have the legal order. We're in some kind of trouble here. Any government action should be based on recovery. Governments must be authorized by law to act. It's very often forgotten in Iceland, but that's how it is. It's been like this for 40 years, I'm just saying. However, the Court's rights and the consonant rule still make it possible that when the Commission does not act as they do and do things despite a lack of recovery, certain customs may develop and people can begin to view things as improving. There's a lot of stuff in there. I feel that there is good reason to delay the government's opinion on whether this arrangement will succeed in a constitution, and I also feel that it is a good reason to accept the change in my section in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u107	Madam President. I find this very interesting discussion, and especially a word at the same time. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir. That is all that is needed for a committee to be reinstated. I hope that the Chairman decides to do because that formal wish has come here from a child, for this scheme is by no means acceptable. I wondered, as the lesser part of the committee has been attributed here, that there is a tendency here to support private schools over others, as the present government has, unfortunately, a great tendency. We see here a disaster in that context. In the opinion of the greater part here, by permission of the President: The more part has a right to the bill, it is not being proposed to change the current process, but to get better for it. Instead of improving the law in general, the government intends to maintain this condition. I must now mention what is stated in the review of the student society of the Technical School, since that school has been a significant subject. I find this interesting. I'll have to read it a little, with President's permission: ▪ The Narrator Society finds it interesting to see that high school studies are taught at the university, why don't they teach in high school? We feel that this bill has moved [sic] to cover over the 25 - year budget adopted in 2015, where students 25 years of age and older were no longer allowed into high school for academic studies. Is [sic] the Minister of Education and Culture... this bill solves the problem at this time? To send these individuals 25 years of age and older to an animal, a private school such as the University of Reykjavík, the University of Bifrost, or Keil? In fact, it also states that the student society feels that the Ministry has not gone to college, high school, or high school before this bill was submitted. However, it may be as if with so many other features of the present government, that no one with regard to matters is considered at any given time, according to a discussion about this school from which this report comes, or regarding the Annual School of Racial Studies about the unity that appears to be determined, even though a minister has now tried to carry it out in a morning radio this morning and feels that we are becoming a fool's cousin. Of course, we're going to think of the loan as an equation. The loan fund is supposed to be an equation so that all who wish to study are able to do so. It's not just for some people. It should not be that at higher schools or at any such school where people prepare for college, they do not have the same opportunities as others because they do not live in the vicinity of the schools that are being raised and offered to attend, but that is the case. We live in a society that is the case although, fortunately, telecommunication has increased tremendously, much of what is good. However, this also requires much less than the private schools, making it possible for people to study locally. However, this does not change the need for those who want to be inside the school system to pick up and move if they need money. It can't be considered as right to study if you have to move to the southwest corner in order to prepare for college because you can't do it in your home country unless you get some sort of money. If you have to clean up and move, you will be able to make a natural amount of money. We know this as having children who have had to go far away from school. I sent my kids, like. On one hand, Laugar and the other at the National Verzlunar School of Iceland. I speak from experience as far as it goes. I just think it's very important that those who go into this situation realize that they're creating discrimination and establishing a law. If it had been a 40-year-old without the law, then we shouldn't have it in the law. That can't be acceptable. The report says that many older senators fail to recognize the trend that has taken place in the last few years of the system. I have to say, I don't think the Chairman of the General Board is an older citizen. I think she should know exactly what it's all about. I don't think that the committee is very old, so these statements are presented in this article, so it is not entirely possible to pay off to members of the committee. I have to agree with what is presented here, and we have talked many times about increasing mental illness and other factors that lead to temporary discontinuation, which may even lead to a relapse of mental illness. Studying later in life, perhaps choosing these options because they need financial support. Then the rights of both this group and others may be impaired, who might be able to do less studying. Of course, it is important, as we have been assigned here, that it will only provide the rights to the school involved. You don't get the rights to go to the University of Iceland or the University of Akureyri. You may have to add 200 high school units from these schools, which you will be able to get through this study. It's a good thing people realize that. I know that people don't realize it until it's too late. They have started studying before they realize it. I'm not gonna have this much further, a respectable president. I just think it's reason that when we're making some changes in the law, we're supposed to make them more equal, not increase in discrimination. For that reason, it seems that this government is going to stand, extend the gap between people. We'll never accept that, left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u108	A respectable president. I want to reiterate, because it came out as if it had just happened right now, that we were exposed to that request on May 10. To receive the opinion of a state attorney and by permission of a president I'd like to quote that request to a state attorney: There is a 392 issue of the Allherder and Education Committee, the Icelandic Board of Education, the loan Fund, the loan program. At a meeting of the Committee on May 10 this morning. the request was made to receive a memo or a government lawyer opinion to see if the regulations of the bill are against the regulations of 65. g. republics No. 33/194, i.e. such as to study, especially to students in high school who are not attending a qualified school. I hear what's being said here, but I restate on the fact that this is merely a process of improving, and I'm more than ready to talk about education and policy in terms of loans and other things, when we go to the overall review of the Icelandic loan fund and look forward to it in the fall. So it comes out of nowhere, wrong is done with a few things. Study is defined, and it is the responsibility of a university that is designed to qualify for certain courses of study. Colleges can negotiate with any high school to offer higher education. It is open to college, and they can negotiate with all the high school they want. Then maybe right at the end. We'll take this case back into the committee and we'll probably discuss it. But I can't say a thing because of a word. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir on the alleged 25-year rule. There's no 25-year rule. [[Up front.]] That's a priority rule that was accepted by reason. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who was then a minister of education, is plenty of space for all students in the high school system regardless of age. The awards for high school students are not age-related. Hence, it is not that it is not paid for all students in school. This false, misleading debate is harmful because people think that high school is not open and not applying, because it is the wrong debate. It's wrong that schools and high school are not open. They're wide open for students 25 years of age and older. I've talked to a Neanderthal, who is sorry because they don't receive so many applications. Schools are open to the students and have room for them. These students are back in line with a priority rule adopted by the Ministry of Education for the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir and may not be able to enter some school because of these priorities. They are rarely put to the test, since only a few schools are that enormously competitive. It is wrong not to be paid for 25 years of age or older. It is wrong that there is not enough room for them in high school, and schools are somehow shut down. I'm sorry. This discussion, such as it's not that much of a bill, is involved, but I'm sure it's an answer. We'll take it back to the General and Education Committee after 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u109	A respectable president. As shown in the case of what? Then a senator can cooperate the university with high school in conducting this study. It is, in fact, very obvious to ask, " Is it not normal for study to end with a student's test if the number of units is exactly the same as completing a nuclear track? ' There is no difference, such as. IN THE state of high school, students are in a high school course. In addition, it is obvious that high school can provide that service if so, in contracts with college. So it's all that says you're finishing high school after you leave school if you haven't finished a student test before, which is also a possibility. If you have this package, 140 units, haven't finished a student test and add to the 60 units you are studying, does the 200 units complete enough to get a student's test, is it not very clear that this study should complete with a student's test?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u110	A respectable president. I'm not saying I don't agree, because we need to look at the rules of loans. It's very important that we make a full review of them together. Today, however, there is a difference between going to school and a student's test. If we're going to change it now, we're making major changes in the loan fund of Icelandic students, which is much larger than here indicates because we're only doing this work that's now in force for the loan fund. I'm very open to the fact that we're looking at how to study, because it's not a student's test today. So there are major changes. But I'm quite ready to look at this this in the fall of a full reexamination of the loan fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u111	A respectable president. I view this change, not as a change of loans or of loans, but as a review of the rights that students earn with the number of units they have completed. The point is obvious in calculations only, 200 units complete, 200 high school units complete according to LIN and all. It doesn't make any difference in credit rates, it wouldn't make any loans to high school especially because of this. They continue to attend. Then the other question is whether it conflicts with the rule of equality or not. It is just another question to answer, whether it is necessary to move the loan program away from the funeral school and to all who are at that point. It's just that if you finish this 200 unit package, you're going to have to have a student's license, it's the equivalent of completing the student's test. It is accompanied by a positive process, such as a professional process involving learning courses and the like, which are very natural to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u112	A respectable president. I'm not sure it's a bad idea to complete a student's school course, but we have to figure out what it's like to go to school today. It's, for example. attending a preschool for a certain medical school abroad. Are you going to end it with a student's test? No, we can't force some foreign schools offering to go to school for the value of completing the student's test, but we may need to take a closer look at things. Secular education is often such a factor only for the university you attend. Of course, if we want to change it, we're changing it so that there won't be a single school course, but we're talking about a short student's test, some kind of shortcut, that goes into any school. I'm not quite sure how to do this. [[Up front.]] Of course, we just need to look at this. I don't think it all mattered to do that exactly now because there were bigger changes. Then, for example, we would be. not to lend loans to students abroad for the medical schools that are the prime loans we give today to foreign students. So I don't think it's important in this discussion, but it's important that we discuss the whole study when we review the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u113	A respectable president. I really can't help but come back to what I'm saying. A senator. Although she's said it quite often here in the Generals' ponta that there's no 25-year rule, it is. When the budget is limited to high school, it is. A reduction in the number of students aged 25 years and older was 7,42 between 2014 and 2015, and this is for some reason. That's for damn sure. This is because a political decision will then be made on the part of an Illugi Gunnarsson son of the then educated minister he stood for at the council. He was not going to any grave with it. Hv. A senator has said that all he needs to do is set his priorities. Then we need to examine it. Hv. A senator has also declared it here in special discussions on this matter that she does not necessarily feel normal that students 25 years of age and older are in high school with other students. Former Minister wanted to find other options. I can't hear any better than what. A senator agreed. It's about high school money. This is about the fact that now we are dealing with a financial program that does not return to school what they were to receive. It is a cutoff to high school, in comparison with what they were to receive that policy. So to say otherwise than 25 years of age or older, we don't have easy access to school, unless we certainly do the work, it wasn't set up, we're talking about book study, we're not, that's not right. Whether the senator wants to accept it or not. Theified worked inside this system, that's what I've done, I don't think of it. A senator did it, I know it. Although some headmasters told her something else, some schools may be able to receive students, but they do not have many.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u114	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I don't think 25-year-olds and older students should go to college. However, in countries we compare with 25 - year - old students who prefer to go to adult school, they often want to study, and they are in their age that they have to provide and want a different study than they want to spend three years at school. I think here we're just letting them borrow to take advantage of this option, but they're certainly welcome to high school on the same grounds as others. What was made available to the public for this follow - up education was greatly increased in order to cope with deportation and to encourage 25 - year - old students and older to complete student studies and receive loans to pursue continued studies, such as those in high school. The northern countries that we compare with us have far more strict and strict rules than the priorities we have on this list. It's just that 25 - year - old and older students get into high school in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u115	Madam President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. Yeah, that's exactly what I said. These eight hundred students, who have decreased from year to year, did not want to go to school? What kind of compromise is this? This is not an offer. Some people want to be grown up, that's what it takes. This requires more, and that is exactly what we have always been talking about. The gap between those who choose to study is increasing, as is the case with this bill. A senator is speaking here. Different study. Sitting in a class. Now I have to agree with those who sent a review of the Theocratic Ministry School. What age is the problem? Senator? I come from High School in the Grinch, which is a very progressive school. There's nothing you necessarily need to sit on a school bench. You can come and go almost as you please. You can go to school for a long time, and you can come to school at a time that is convenient and all that. It is simple to say that adults do not have the option to go to high school unless they sit there all day long. It's silly to say this because it's not what the situation is today. Hv. A senator cannot overlook the fact that increasing the budget now intended for high school is due to the reduction in the number of students. It's not just a natural decrease. This is because it is less bioavailability. We also need to look back, because we've been here talking about the harmony of the Technical School and the High School of the Year, that we've got two years to get off the number of students. And then there's more. Madam President. This presentation, made by the chairman of the General and Education Committee, is repeatedly trying to promote itself and the cause of the right policy that there is equal access to everyone at school, is not a fact. The numbers say otherwise. A shrinking student says otherwise. [[The president calls.]] We can't overlook that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. She may think it's silly that they're people who look at things differently, that's all. [[Foreground on, fact.]] I now say that 25 years of age and older students are supposed to have a choice, they should have a choice of how to educate, whether to go to college, or whether to go to school. [[They don't have a choice, that's what it's all about.]] [[There's been talk.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u117	The talk has the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u118	I have the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u119	Row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u120	They should have a choice. To do so, we must support them and discuss that they will not be able to enter the study and that there will be less damage to them. Because of this, we need to look to him. One senator noted that in high school they had a dramatic decrease: What is the date for it? It's based on a year of high unemployment, where people went to school, a lot to study... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[President prays...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u121	President wishes to be at ease in the hall. The talk has the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u122	There was a lot of unemployment, and people went to school that is good, but today, since we really don't have any unemployment, people are looking less at school. [[I thought Bjarni... unemployment 2014. Was he lying then or was you now?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u123	Madam President. Of course, I can't depend on the fact that I'm joking. I wasn't talking about the years after the collapse. I specifically mentioned in 2014 and 2015, where students 25 years of age and older had decreased by the eighth hundred. That's what it's all about, and it's supposed to be right. Hv. The head of the General and Education Committee cannot allow itself to appear here and maintain it, both here and in the media, where it comes in to discuss these issues, that there is no limit to access and therefore that students did not reduce their numbers. That's not true. The fact has been made in writing by the former minister of education and culture. Hv. paritaprevir With this issue in mind, Oddný Harðardóttir found detailed answers to questions. It has been discussed in special discussions more than once, both during the last assembly and now, such as this. A senator can only look for information if she thinks I'm here with the wrong numbers. However, she quotes some other years than I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u124	A respectable president. I can't help but say what I'm saying. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. It is a serious matter to stand in the Lady Generals and make false remarks. It's a serious matter. We're not in town somewhere talking over a cup of coffee. This is the national seminary, the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders. It's spoken here as being such a massive unemployment. Unemployment in 2014 was below 5%. Senator. And speaking here as if 25 years of age or older didn't have the option of pursuing some education elsewhere, what kind of crap is that? This allowed all to obtain education that they could pay for before this 25 - year rule was set - a rule that would then be the highest. A minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, repeatedly called a 25 - year rule here in Pontu. I don't know why. A senator acts like it wasn't. Wants to play. A senator means to ex-fiancise. A minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, was repeatedly lying to the United States of America when he spoke of a 25 - year rule? [[The president calls.]] It's simply to tell the truth. People are supposed to have the reputation of being able to live up to their own opinions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u125	A respectable president. I really like talking and that's how I like it, so I just look up Iceland's Habitat site. In 2013, there were 10.6% unemployment rate among 16◯24 years and 4.6% among the 25 years and older, 9.9% and 4.3% respectively, and the unemployment rate was 16◯25 years 8.7% and 3.2% in 25 years and older. There is a clear decrease in unemployment, or about 1,200, people in the group aged 25-◯4. I'm sorry, but the evidence is as accurate as it is in Hauspú. Yes, there is some reduction there that could explain to some extent a decrease in the number of students older than 25 years, but the evidence is not quite accurate enough to make any claim.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u126	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion. Still, I'm going to be such a fool to discuss the bill right here in front of us. I simply wanted to make a decision that, in the memory of the section, we have, of course, accepted that a petition has been sent to a state lawyer that he would give us an opinion as to whether this bill is a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u127	And we appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u128	Yes, we thank the fact that our request was made. What we disagree with is that prior to the hearing of a committee, it is uncertain whether this answer is passed on before it is passed on to a state attorney in this matter as a matter of law. We do this without any expert assessment of whether this law will last for a constitution, and of course it's against a constitution. So it wouldn't be too great. Madam President. I don't see any particular reason to legalize this case right now. It has been said that the changes in the memory of the part are fundamental changes in what this simple bill should include and therefore should not be respected; that this includes fundamental changes in how the LIN economy should be changed and that it is merely legalizing the pxizes that have been going on for 40 years until the autumn when a global inspection is possible. Our doubts in our memory turn to the fact that then we are legally validating discrimination in these laws. I believe we should be extremely careful with the legal process that could make us discrimination people. Since this arrangement has been prepared for 40 years without stabilisation, there is no need to put up with it now, since we cannot unite that it would be good to have equal justice in mind. There is no need just to wait until the fall, until a full reexamination, since we can have the overall picture of how we really want to borrow to students. I think it's far more important, Madam President, that there's a problem and I don't have to worry about putting a cure under praxize that's been around so long because of the threat from the LIN, the threat that's being used to happen to be wiped out by a single word from the highest level. Minister of Education, or so I understand. Wouldn't it be a advice to be the highest? The Minister of Education would ask LIN to continue lending without correction until a full reexamination can take place, at the very least not content to ensure that this is not the Constitution of Icelanders, discrimination students, and just so general and above, to continue to legalize even more privatizing in the educational system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u129	A respectable president. I would like to come up and thank you to a greater part of the General and Education Committee and especially to the Chairman for having responded to our request to review this bill and the information to the Constitution. I also think it's right to go a little better through the State Review Report, and the Plural Reports, as there are more than one person here on this matter, and the borrower's credit. Under the category of loans for study, it says by permission of the president: ▪ A number of applications are related to the creditable study of LIN. In recent years, special education has been provided, and preschool education has increased, often collecting schools for this reason. In particular, the primary study has created a problem for the management of LIN and uncertainty about the quality of study. According to Government Accounting, loans from the fund are not only against the basic thoughts of Article 1 and 2. Laws on LIN, No. 21/1992 also violates the equality of high school students for the student's test. As you look at how these loans have developed over the past few years and particularly to the aforementioned Advisory Committee on May 1, 2011, - which is passed through in this report -- it seems only about two choices: either the loans should be totally discontinued or the LIN laws should be adjusted in accordance with the implementation and the benefits of all students' high school loans. In their response to state reexamination, the managers agree with this assessment. True, they do not question the importance of the fact that students who did not complete a standard study set out effective ways to study at a later time in their lives. However, they feel that this should include the least cost for the State and the students themselves, and they point out that in general people should avoid getting too much loans before they have their own university education. So they feel that it would be better to get preschool into the process that it does not require borrowing from students. In this regard it also needs to be in mind that the rule of not in general is not to lend a loan for study that leads to a student's test and the need to be equal. In some ways, this is a comment given on the majority of the parts - the salmon, or part of it, could include the study being given at night at high schools. In a bill or something. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who served as a minister of education, was just concerned about meeting their remarks and setting in a clearer frame of law. It held out a stipulation loan, not a school loan for this study. It is also of great interest to note in a report on basic study how different the costs of students vary between the three schools that offer such a study. I want to mention, in view of the seeming willingness of men, or hopefully we'll be taken into account now in the payment of the case, but if we keep this in mind, the importance of trying to reduce student debt, we'll find that the study is the cheapest at the University of Reykjavík, followed by the University of Bifrost and then Keir. In effect, the University of Bifrost and Keilir are very comparable when it comes to telecommunications and local education. However, the University of Reykjavík offers the most practical study in this regard. I think tonight's debate simply shows that we should have won this case a little better. We should have taken a little more time on the committee to discuss this. I've tried to practice a certain kind of practice. We all sign natural oaths to the Constitution, but it is also very important in my opinion to try as much as possible to follow up the tips of the surveillance agencies that are our institutions at the World Council, which work for us. We'll discuss their reports. They enter the council. The Parliament has discussed and concluded on these reports. We shouldn't be running too much after the Ministry or Minister on this. I hope that the committee will use the opportunity on committee days to find out what it is that we can get together, try to ensure the level of high school students in the best way, that we will continue to support those who for some reason have not been able to complete our traditional high school education, but, in the same way, we are not showing discrimination. I think there's a way to figure this out. That's one of the things I'm going to talk to the smaller section, whether it's not right from now that we're pulling back our changing proposals by Section 3. in the hope that a good conversation can be made with the committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u130	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the Committee's list of changes in proposals to be agreed on by the National Institute of Health. That's a common opinion from all reason. Councilmen who serve on the World Health Committee. The committee discussed the matter and brought many good visitors to their meeting, including the U.S.A. Visitors who came from the Allied Union of Iceland, from the Land Hospital, and then received reviews from a few sources on the subject. They were very positive in this matter. The aim of this Parliamentary arrangement is to work on a health plan for Iceland. In recent years, society has called for improved health systems and was very prominent in the leading of the last total election. An appeal to society shows the importance of health policy and the need to continue to provide funds for the party but in a consistent manner. A report by the Parliament's lysance proposal quotes the McKinsey report published in 2016, showing that the overall health benefits in Iceland in 2014 were lower than those in other countries, except for Finland. The meeting of the committee with visitors called on a program for health care to 2020, which is being developed at the Ministry of Health. This is a plan designed for health care or a plan that was made during the last term. But she never happened to her face. A general council, however, was presented on the Ministry's Web. The main criticism of the visitors was that there had been little consultation with a professional member of the Ministry. The Commission stresses that a comprehensive consultation will be conducted with professionals in the medical system in the implementation of health programs at the Ministry. It is concluded by the Committee that professional people have a good view of the sect and know best about the weaknesses and strengths of equipment. As I said earlier, medical programs were being carried out during the last term for presentation on the Ministry's Web, but they were not before. General. When we saw the Constitution, it was the highest. Healthcare Ministers were not on that registry. That's why we decided. Parliamentary candidates, to submit a plagion proposal for a health committee early during this meeting for a material discussion. As I said before, everyone stands why. Councilmen on the welfare board of this committee party with a change of motion. Most sources held that it was as fast as possible. The committee agrees with this statement and suggests that the proposal will be referred to the work being done within the Ministry. Then the committee wants the General to be informed about the outworking of the situation. Taking into account the above, the committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following changes and that the proposal is made as follows: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister from him to continue working on a health plan and provide it for the General as soon as possible. The schedule will explain the procedures within the medical system and show which persons should render services within the system. It will be defined as the services to be performed at the National Hospital, the services to be performed in many medical institutions and private services to be available and to be desirable. The programme takes into account geographic factors, such as transportation and distance between habitats. Bioequivalence that health care without regard to home will also be ensured by more intensive outpatient care. In addition, we will be taking into account the prophylaxis, the public health, the population development of health - care centres, the population's ages, the location of medical vehicles, the access to hospital flights, and the number of tourist facilities and the country's home. The programme will also show whether and what means are there in making use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reducing the pressures of land hospitals. This medical programme will include consultation with professionals from around the country, key stakeholders and users. The General Board of Staff will regularly be informed of the progress of the case. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education comes to work as a health plan to ensure funding for the seminar and health professionals. There is no doubt that the medical programme will begin immediately in 2017. The General Assembly will be informed of the progress of the issue no later than at the beginning of the 2017 fall and then at regular intervals until the work is completed. 2. The headline of the proposal is as follows: Suggestion to be agreed on by a health plan. This is done at the General Assembly on May 5, 2017. Under this opinion, with a change in the proposal for a synopsis on the preparation of a health plan, it should be written at the same time. Councilmen: Nichole Leigh Mosty, chairman of welfare committee, Lára Lara Arnardóttir, writer of the case, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Guon of S. Brjánsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Sverrisdóttir Sverisdir, Elínardóttir Sjönardótnardótir Sigfússon Sigfugurson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I'd like to speak very briefly before I give thanks to everyone. Congress members for the much good work that took place in connection with the matter at hand. The welfare committee. This was the priority of the Prosecutive Assembly during the winter of this council. It is a pleasure to see that this is the place and I also hope that the Council's resolution with this adjustment proposal will be carried out so that policy will take place in this major and important health - care category. We've all observed media discussions and society recently showing that policy is important because we have to decide and know where to go. In this way we make the best use of funds, and in this way we can ensure the best service for the people in our fine society. And that, of course, is what we must and should keep in mind when working. I look forward to some discussion on this subject and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u131	A respectable president. The draft proposal is intended to be a health plan for Iceland, and it can be said that the country just yelled at better health systems for the last election. We can all agree that it was the big campaign, and everyone promised to give up. But as it turned out. Lára For Arnardóttir, in Iceland, the overall supply of health supplies is relatively lower than in most countries we would like to compare with, and it is important not only to add more money to the seminars but also to improve consultation with professionals in the preparation of a health plan. It is the professional who has the greatest perspective and knowledge to evaluate the weaknesses and strengths of the system. The proposal assumes that a procedure will be made clear, i.e. that the program will help to explain which members should render service. The service of the Landspians, the services to be performed at national institutions, and the services to be performed by the private servants, if that is what we would like. It's clear to everyone that we in the left green want to see a health system run by a common fund rather than by private people who pay interest. Private companies who receive financial payments cannot pay their interest. It's simply a bad thing to do with public money. The health system is to be built on the community's sympathy, where all are happy to pay for those who need to be used, not by health systems, based on citizens who use it. Everyone has the same right to health as people should not be able to buy themselves ahead of the order, and people have the right to the best health care, regardless of their economic situation. Therefore, it is very important that the health care programme should be assessed for the benefit and benefit of private services. It is important that the plan ensures that all the people of the country are equal when it comes to health care. We need to work hard on mental - health issues, especially when it comes to young people. The country's colleges are full of young people with psychiatric problems, and the system seems to be pretty confused. There is a lack of resources and long waiting lists for needed help. We are talking about problems such as anxiety, depression, addiction, social phobia, to name something. Research shows that spiritual illness is a major reason why students are expelled from high school and from the labor market. The service of psychiatrists, psychologists, and other health experts is generally out of place only in the private sector and most people cannot afford to take advantage of it except through the social insurance systems of the union society, systems that are not available for those whose illness, age, or study have been unable to be active in a long term labour market. That group has failed the government. The residence, distance, and transportation should be taken into account. Experts are not the very nature of the situation in every country. In many cases, it must be cheaper to move the expert to the country regularly than to move all the patients to the capital area. It seems quite random to what special assistance is available in the country. It is important to define the basic services at the quarter hospital so that the inhabitants know whether and how often the gynaecologist, the gynecologist, or the orthopedic surgeon or ophthalmologist will be on the scene. Careful attention should be given to the location of a medical vehicle and access to a medical flight. We are more likely to increase the number of ambulances than we are already driving through the country has increased dramatically. For example, it is now time to put down the duty of EMTs in Ólafsundy. It is completely incomprehensible. The area is large, and the number of tourists is considerable, especially in outdoors, such as mountain fashions, which are risky. The changes in health - care realities need to be considered with regard to the growth of tourists. I need a medical flight to be in good condition. Finally, there is a need for repairs to the Northland airport, a part of which is funded by locals. An unnamed doctor at the Eastern Hospital in Ness shop said that if there was no sponsorship, patients would be on the floor and we would cut them up with a knife and a fork. It is unacceptable that health - care services in the country stand and fall with a trusted sponsor. I agree with the changes made by a health - care committee, especially as it involves a plan to speed up the situation and that procedures within the medical system will be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u132	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for serving this plan. She has taken the initiative to follow this through and to apply it to our best welfare committee. Health services are complex and complex in our small country, but they are quite wide. Farmers do not sit at the same table, that's pretty clear. Through the storms of our last few years, from the moment we waited for a financial breakdown in 2008, the region kept going down, as does health care in general. This current medical programme, this proposal for a concierge that we hope to gain approval, is good. It is endeavoring to frame in, better than we may have done before, the national service, the health - care program throughout the country. Of course, we would like to perform as much a service in the country as possible in our present situation, but it is increasingly difficult to provide full - time expert services throughout the country. Still, there is effort to do so. Two ex-fiancists. Health Ministers have declared that they want to promote specialised service in the region, but this has been rather slow. Specialized services are primarily enjoyed by capital citizens. If you look at the statistics of health insurance and insurance, you can see that there are far more smokers who go to the experts, and the frequency of the visits is far higher than in the country. If you just look at those figures, you might think that the health of the capital city would be disastrous. It's probably not, but it's making it a favor -- the difference. Some would say that attending special service has become part of a person's eating habits. In many languages, the term is used for use in health care. But we don't do that in Iceland. Health care is in trouble in the country. We must make up our mind about how we want to live up to it. This medical programme will help you to do this. We'll be aware that some settlements are reduced, that's a team unit. At the same time, people's demands for effective professional service increase. We are much more enlightened and conscious than before of what is good service, what is moderate service, and what is relaxation. Country dwellers require a very good service. We should try to fulfill it as we possibly can. The same is true of health care equipment. While human resources are our most precious possession, it is necessary to keep equipment at the clinics appropriate. We have been discussing telepathy, which is an important factor, and a part of it can be linked to a variety of devices, such as a imaging device, which is available in its image at most clinics. But there are far more professional requirements for photo shoots on such devices. We are faced with the possibility of having a hard time caring for people everywhere. That's a lot of words to put into it. An ambulance has been identified as one of the key elements, and that is, of course, the right thing to do. There is also a great need for us to have effective emergency care and good knowledge. It's a long story that Iceland's Red Cross has been on the scene of medical transportation, i.e. owned all the medical vehicles in the country, but this is the case with the lack of contracts between the Red Cross and the Ministry for the rest. In the last two years, the Red Cross has had no agreement with the Ministry on this. That part is upset. We hope a good landing is achieved, but it has been a very successful arrangement that the Red Cross was in this cooperation with the Ministry on this aspect. We have powerful medical facilities in the country. These institutions are our share of all of us, the property of the government. We're here to protect them. But that may not be possible. We'll hear some speculations and a variety of plans these days. There are people on deck. But the country's will is clear. This has been observed many times in the surveys of every country trust in this relationship. A respectable president. I'm not gonna say anything more. All I have to put aside is the joy and satisfaction that this plan has come to be on this form. It is hoped that this medical programme will be put to pressure the Ministry to provide intensive health care policies in which other factors will be taken into consideration and defined and that we will have a highly defined map, as I would like to call it, on health care, on health care; on how we will be involved in providing health care and, as has been shown here, who is to provide what services, because it has been a problem in the country where health care needs to be played. The prospects are great, both from the hands of the people and from the government. I believe the work that is now started at the Ministry, according to the highest level. Minister, will give us a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u133	V.E.G. President. I will declare joy like that of others here, because this matter has come to this place and to this far. I want to thank everyone who's had a good job. During the election campaign before the last election, there was a call for these matters to be restored. There is a considerable need for health care throughout the country, the need for policy, the analysis of how we want to define our service and what service to be in. When we talk about these matters, we're talking about basic social factors, services that all of us have high expectations and have a natural demand for equal access. The aim of this proposal is to work on a health plan for Iceland. As a matter of fact, we spoke in response to what we heard in the campaign. We joyfully walked under the leadership of God's people. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnarddóttir and made this suggestion because we didn't see her in the cards of the board. So we wanted to do our part in promoting these matters. A report on the synonym points out Mckinseyr's report, which has an excellent diagnosis. It says that in 2014 the overall contribution to health in Iceland was 8.8% of GDP, which is close to the average OECD countries but lower than any other country in the North countries, with the exception of Finland. The assessment of health costs in Iceland requires observation of other health care systems, taking into account national and demographic factors affecting the need for health care professionals. There are some underlying factors in Iceland that affect the effectiveness and quality of the health care system and reduce the requirement for health care. In contrast, there is also an inefficient activity in the Icelandic health system, which causes an increase in expenses. The report also shows that there is an interesting time in Icelandic health care. As a result of the collapse of the bank, the health system was faced with great problems, as it has been suggested here, when financial contributions were severely reduced. But we managed to get through the difficulties and continue to render quality service. The development of the land hospital was, in many respects, a symbolic feature of that period. The hospital was able to reduce the cost considerably without sacrificing the quality of the service as well as increasing demand. That's for sure. Despite impressive performances in recent years, not everything is best chosen in the Icelandic health system. There is a lack of clearer management between health - care providers and governments that enable them to manage the ministry. I think that's a very important thing. In addition, this report has identified some systematic problems that limit economic benefits or raise questions about the quality of the service of certain parts of the system. The motion was considered important for health - care professionals to arrive at their place of employment, for they know best about it. It is helpful to make good use of the available knowledge and human resources. We all know it here, and we all realize that within this system, man - made knowledge is invaluable. It is of interest that the guests who visited the committee were generally criticized for having had little agreement with a professional projection within the Ministry. We know some aspects of the health system, they are different, the needs are different in our communities. It is one thing to run a large hospital here in the capital area and another to run smaller health centers in small areas in the country, and their needs vary. The committee did an enormously good job and a great deal of work to do. I'd like to reiterate these thankss. These changes indicate that humans have taken care of matters and have taken a good look at them. This is what the proposal says, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister from him to continue working on a health plan and provide it for the General as soon as possible. The schedule will explain the procedures within the medical system and show which persons should render services within the system. It will be defined as the services to be performed at the National Hospital, the services to be performed in many medical institutions and private services to be available and to be desirable. The programme takes into account geographic factors, such as transportation and distance between habitats. Bioequivalence that health care without regard to home will also be ensured by a more intensive outpatient service. I think that's incredibly important. That's what indicates that this service exists. There are doctors who come from Reykjavík, visit Akureyri regularly, and arrange for a certain number of patients to be treated so that they do not have to travel far. There are a number of cases in which women of child bearing have to go and look to gynecologists for services. Some years ago, eight women were on the same day in Akureyri seeking the same ministry. Then an attempt was made that the doctor arrived in their home area, and it was linked to other trips. There are some of these factors that need to be considered in order to simplify the prospect of seeking a ministry. Visiting a doctor is expensive. Even families need to pick up to go to the doctor for a long time. There is a price to pay on trips, lodgings, and so forth. If we're going to talk about living equality, this is clearly part of it. So here's what we're going to say: It will also take into account prevention, human health, population development in health - care areas, population ages, the location of medical vehicles, hospital access to hospital flights, and the number of tourist facilities and summer homes. There is a wide variety of landscapes in this subject. A growing stream of tourists also put extra strain on health institutions throughout the country. They need strength. We need to care for such people as we have to care for the inhabitants of the land. Then we are facing a situation, as we were doing earlier, that the ambulance service throughout the country needs to be okay. Today, the unsurpassing forces and inhabitants of the mountainous region are faced with the task of cutting that service. It is normal for people to be anxious and severely impaired their whole - time service, thus reducing their sense of security. This too is an important matter that needs real attention. The strategy also showed whether and what opportunities are being taken into account for the safe use of medical facilities in the country, thus reducing the pressures of the Land Hospital. This has been the subject of many discussions, and many have suggested it. There are, indeed, medical institutions around the country that are ready to receive more people. Let us examine that possibility even more. I have suspicion and have heard that it has already begun to do so. It also makes it clear that the preparation of this medical programme will include consultations with professionals from around the country, key stakeholders and users. I think it's an enormous number of things we need to follow because the people, the staff, the staff, who are working the country know the need, they know what they're calling. It can also provide practical plans for what we can do and what we can do. I think we can do so much more than we can do now. It is also a joy to see that this suggests that the World Health Committee will regularly be informed of the progress of the matter. It's our job to follow through on this. We know the call. We know the wishes of the people. It's our job to follow it closely. As soon as I express my joy that we have brought this matter to this place, I will thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who was the first merchant to make this suggestion, and thank you for all her good work. As I would like to thank the members of the committee for what it is. A welfare committee for well - loved, well - thought - out jobs Good luck with all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u134	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen of the Parliament for the initiative to bring in this body of Congress proposal and report from experience to the highest degree. HCPs before and now there's nothing urgent. I was in the position at the time in the middle of a collapse that I was supposed to have a health plan started in 2010-2020, and I read in the report that the plan is still being worked on, now three years left. So I am absolutely convinced that they will welcome this initiative and this challenge to the Ministry. Many new things have been mentioned and revealed. In particular, it is now a great deal of emphasis on having the regularity of the service throughout the country and the extensive consultation with both users of the ministry and at the right time. The welfare committee. There are many things to take, and many things have been mentioned here. I'd like to, however, to be a subject of what I mentioned in the last night's debates about the sexual health of young women mainly, i.e. Serving with our young ones In Iceland, we think of our children very well. We protect them from accidents and trauma, and there has been a marked reduction in the incidence of toxicities and disease in the younger age groups. But then we lose our young, we lose them in some way. Perhaps it is still dominant that when children reach 16 years of age, they have grown up and may do what they want, and they may take that license two, three years earlier. Legal age has been changed, adults are now 18 years old. I discussed it only yesterday as to how the transition could be to those who are ill. Let me just say that according to the World Health Organization (WHO), those who have reached the age of 23 are adults, not before; they are mature adults, i.e. They're adults. This may surprise someone, but that is how it is, and they can study the evidence on the World Health Organization's website. Of course, the needs of this group from 14◯23 years of age, defined by the World Health Organization as a youth, for health care are varied; there are many kinds of people. In effect, however, the needs of this group differ from those of children and are different from those of adults. That is why there has been a development in the health - care department a special practice in cures known as juvenile medicine that we have not performed in Iceland. Yesterday, five years, May 15 had passed since the General Assembly agreed with a unanimous resolution to appoint a team to help improve health and health of young people from 14◯23 years of age. Sadly, that conclusion has not been made. It was suggested that the group offer specific suggestions for reform, this was a work-in, and in addition the group would be assigned to prepare an assembly for people aged 14◯23 years, where health care will be tailored to their needs. These suggestions were based on the results of a work group appointed in 2010 likely, since the health status of this group was specifically examined. There were a number of things that were considered, life - style and health in general, obesity and obesity, dental health, mental health, suicide, suicidal ideation, drug and alcohol abuse, accidents and injuries, violence, including sexual violence, sexual health and sexual behavior, and young people with chronic illnesses and health problems. This working group returned at a time of 13 suggestions that were discussed at the moment. A medical committee in 2011 and 2012, if I recall correctly. As a result, the committee itself made a judicial arrangement that I have mentioned, five years old yesterday, May 15th. My business in this chair is due to the initiative shown here. I think it's important to have a new health plan for Iceland, the one we have valid for 2010, but let's also look around and take a new thought into this, as I've mentioned, about young people. I'd like to encourage you. The well - being committee, which has worked hard on this matter, to address this matter, to look into it, and to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u135	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come up here at the end of the discussion on this committee opinion with an adjustment in the proposal for a resolution on the health plan, and thank you for this fine discussion that has taken place on the subject. I would like to agree with a few points that have been discussed in the discussion. First, I'd like to name it as a dog. paritaprevir In his history, IgGelbjörg Þórðardóttir said that it is true that there was an improvement in health care status during the election process. And what she said, there are also some things that need to be done better, such as. Mental health. There I think we come to the very core of the matter, that we need to work a very large plan and watch a wide, set of goals, costs and finance because otherwise this document, no matter how good its goals are, has little to say if the money isn't involved. There will also be a time for that. A senator said about the mental - health issues, where we came to the closely related aspects of health care, the cost of patients and the importance of developing psychological costs and costs for mental - health professionals. A review of the state budget was made from what happened. Councilmen of the forward party who turned to the welfare section at the head. welfare Committee, it is important that the time of the upcoming budget would be at the time of the current national financial budget when the step would be up to the next step on these topics. Then I want to agree with it. paritaprevir The Guðjón J.sson's S. - Brjánsson wife suggested that we have important health centers in many parts of the country. Of course, I can say that as we know, many health institutions have passed through unity in recent years, and then they should be bigger. The purpose of that union was to make it more powerful to accept various assignments. Then I feel that we are about to take the next step in these matters, which is to give them an assignment and what special status they have or what assignments they are to take. I also agree with what happened. S. Brjánsson important it is that we have in front of us a map on how we have the ministry defined! It is one of the services that people look to when choosing a farm, watching their services, and their children in case of illness. That's right. That's right. A senator and all of them sneer. The members of the council here have spoken that we must promote health care throughout the country because the service has moved much to the capital. At the same time, our good national hospital, the Land Hospital, has increased under pressure. How important it is, then, that we determine which service should be performed in most parts of the country in order to do so. to reduce the stress of the existing emergency service in our good hospital. Hv. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir also mentioned the call for policies and health benefits. She admitted that this is one of the basic services we watch. I agree with that. Hv. paritaprevir Although Egilsdóttir quoted the McKinsey report, it was widely used for reporting on this synonym when submitted as a council case in the winter. She also discussed the importance of outpatient services, that doctors come and their patients, e.g. Outside the country area, meet individuals living there, so they do not always have to follow the service to the capital. I thought it was a very important thing to do. Hv. A member of the Governing Body also identified the different roles of health institutions in many parts of the country, including what we call the medical program. There are a wide variety of expertise within a hospital, in relation to a small health facility in some part of the country. At the same time, the question was correct. A senator said that we live in a different health situation. We've seen tremendous, I'm going to say an explosion in the tourist industry here. There are individuals who go into our clinics, so it needs to be looked into in policy. I want to say something. senators who have been concerned about the use of medical equipment. It is a very important, large link in health matters and in the security of individuals living where not all services are available. I would also like to mention that, as shown in the Parliament's resolution and the Commission opinion, it is important to make use of the means and resources available in the country. It reminds me that in the written answer to the question of why. paritaprevir Gulion of the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson reported that certain groups of measures were considerably less expensive, depending on whether they were being performed at the Aquilin Hospital or the Hospital. I can't even remember if there was a difference in prices. I can see why. A senator nods, so I think I'm saying something right. That's good. Hv. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir has quite some experience with this group. First, thank you for the beautiful words to the oar. The senators of the Parliament for making this motion, to the point. Councilmen on welfare committee. It made it clear that from 2010 onward, we have been aimless in health care matters, including those. The surgeon general's office and various experts have shown that we do not use the funding we have when we don't have a policy because we don't know where we're going. That's too bad. At the same time, I rejoice in her words to impress us with new thoughts, thoughts far off, and I thank her for reminding us of the proposal she mentioned in her talk about juvenile medicine. I'm sure it will. Senators on welfare committees are ready to examine the matter. It is very important that we consider this group at 14◯23 years of age. I want to finally thank you for this fine discussion. I certainly hope that the Council's ledger proposal and the Commission opinion that we speak will have good progress, that the motion does not rest within the Ministry, but will be urgent, as it has been said in the words of the court. Councilmen and at ease. The General welfare Committee is given information on the progress of the case. I believe that by this measure in the Commission opinion and the information right at the highest level. Minister has to do with what. The health committee increases the likelihood that we will reach this vessel in port of health policy. Thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u136	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party to a bill to correct a variety of transport laws, the introduction of international commitments. This is a change, however, in several transport laws taken together in one unit. So I'll witness directly and read from the Commission opinion, with the permission of a president: The bill suggests that there are five laws on transportation, shipping laws, air travel laws, European missions and shipping laws, marine control laws, and transport laws on transport accidents. The bill's report shows that the changes are due to the implementation of regulations resulting from the international commitments of Iceland on transport. The committee did not comment on any of the elements of the bill, but the committee received several comments from Isavia, which were specifically attracted to the conceptal change that would be unnecessary in the community's opinion, the regulations of the law and regulations on confidentiality of the United States House and the violation of the requirements for the height of the flight manager's age. The committee has received a clear explanation from the Ministry and the Association for these changes. The change in the concept of the pilot pilot to the pilot manager is aimed at bringing the wording closer to the original text and sharpening the responsible position of the member. At that time, the current client's action with the Commission's Office is granted a more assured correction by changing the bill. Finally, the Ministry feels that it is necessary to eliminate unscrupulous laws on the age-rate traffic controller in order to correct the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/340, which is a conflicting assessment of Istavia. However, the Commission has shown that by dismissing the requirements on the basis of age, legislation is closer to what can be done in the Regulation, as well as that which is considered unattainable to keep the age at the maximum of the conditions, it is more appropriate to set strict qualifications for air traffic control, regardless of age. According to the above, the Commission does not feel that there is a need for a change in the bill and suggests that it will be agreed as unchanged. Under this, all the members of the committee, wow. Councilmen Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir Gudnardóttur, Pawel Bartoszek strategist, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Brótti Haraldsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Kollin Óttarsson Proppé and Thol Björn Einarsson. It was a great deal of peace on the committee, and I would like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u137	A respectable president. Last Sunday, I did what I like to do, which is go for a ride to the Þingla and pay for parking lots and then drive back, something like that. Because I don't know anything more fun than paying for the use of manpowers. That's just the way I am. This is a review of a bill about a change in traffic law, with subsequent changes, on parking expenses. In the simplest case, this bill is about the fact that present - day sources are available to charge the uses of urban cars to be extended so that they also apply in rural areas. In addition, more extensive sources are proposed to exploit the funds thus to be eliminated. If I briefly explain the members of the committee that most of the Committee suggests, the bill will be submitted to a change between 83 and 108.g. traffic song. The changes are aimed at allowing the payment of parking lots outside of urban areas, which so far have only been allowed for purchases or purchases and, on the other hand, by divulging authorization for the use of the funds resulting from the payment of parking lots during the stress of fines. The reviews received by the Committee are generally positive. Although the transport agency criticizes the fact that by means of the bill, rural society is given unlimited authorization for deposit and payment and the tax paid by tourism, it is new to build up other infrastructures. The greater part of this suggests that although there is still room for the use of donated funds and payment on the parking lot, it is still available by the bill, so that the funds should be used to build up in the respective parking lot and the services rendered around it. This is especially to finance tourism infrastructure. Pay is still a service fee, not a tax, and should be used in accordance with the requirements for this type of payment. There were some discussions within the Commission on the pressures of the cost of violations, in particular on the 2.mg. 108. g. traffic laws that be imposed by written notifications that should be attached to vehicles and which members have the authority to handle the pressures of such a price. Regarding the first factor, the majority of the segments show an understanding of the viewpoint, including it was shown in the review of the Company Vision and the 2 mg per protocol. 108. g. if a child is in his time and needs modernizations so that natural evolution can occur with technological progress. In this way, for example, the use of electronic fines is being done in other countries. The majority of them consider it important that laws do not prevent natural development, progress, and innovation in this regard, but they emphasize that there will be a careful change in such a way as allowing the electronic stress of fines, especially that careful administrative practices will be strictly maintained. So directs the more part to the Ministry that the case will be adopted and proposed to adapt to the one represented here. It must be possible, so I'm just going out of my opinion, that there have been reactions from the Ministry in this case. As I read it, there were many viewpoints that it was appropriate to arrange the steps so that the payer could take place without being overly burdensome at every turn. I know that there are ideas of such articles, so I suggest that the case be referred to between 2 and 3. Since we can examine the ideas found in committees that have come up there and take their stand. But all the other factors involved, of course, remain as well as the comments that would be taken up if such were to be taken into account, must be careful of the personal protection issues as well as of the fact that such a change would also apply here in the capital area, which would really change its nature. At first, it is proper to take a careful step to the earth, but of course we take the lead, and there is still time to work on these matters. So I continue to read from the Commission opinion, which says that at the same time there will be a review of the need for legal adjustments to allow the pressures of non-final violations outside urban areas, as set out in the reviews of the Penitentiary of Reykjavík and the Union of Iceland. Regarding the second thing, on which parties are authorized for the pressures of cash pay, a greater part wants to justify their understanding that a community can assign its employees to other workers than its special standards to care for such pressures. The majority also want to agree with the understanding that comes from others. ... in the review of the European Union's member countries to the curative authority of the bill, it is not limited to areas owned by rural society, but also to tourist attractions, which are under the control of rural society. The majority support the progress of the bill, believing that this is an important step toward ensuring the fairness of rural society and the necessary revenue of increasing tourism so that they will be better equipped to carry out the growth and the necessary infrastructure it requires. Sets the more part of the bill to remain the same. Under these publications. Councilmen: Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Chairman of Pawel Bartoszek, background manager, Ásmundur Friðriksson Bruthis Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Gunnar Bragi the Sveinsson of Sjön, and Tox Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's well-traveled. I know of things in which I have had an excellent cooperation on this matter. Environmental and Transport Committee. I wanted to ask you what. In fact, in the last paragraph of the committee article, which says by permission of the president, the senator took an important step toward ensuring the fair and necessary income of increasing tourist flows to help ensure the growth and the necessary infrastructure that it requires. Counts 'em out. A senator that with this authority for parking fee has taken enough steps in that direction, as it is obvious that the fees are services and very limited in what can be used? There's a list in the bill itself. Or thinks so. A senator has to take further steps to secure his share of income - necessary income, says here - an increasing stream of tourism will lead to the needed infrastructure that is not even linked to the requested parking lot?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u139	A respectable president. At first, I want to make a point and to emphasize the depth of our understanding. A senator also has that the income generated in this bill can only be used to build cars and toilets in connection with them and the rest of the bill. Still, there are certain structures, so this helps build up infrastructure, but of course, only theirs. To answer the second part of the question directly, I'm going to let myself take off the hat of the greater part's front, though I'm feeling pretty good with that hat, and answer the question from my own opinions: Yes, I personally believe that it would be desirable to be able to make new bigger parking expenses. It might have to be in the form of some kind of tax, in a different form, to put them in place and use them in a structure, either locally or in some other context. That's my personal opinion. I would be happy to pay such a fee that has more extensive sources. But obviously it's not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I was going to stop this answer, but I cut it down, and I think I just noticed. A senator spoke of a larger parking lot, that they would be used for further infrastructure than that shown in the bill. I would like to ask, " Did I just notice that? ' If so, and now I know I'm asking why. A senator's personal opinions on the matter, naturally one of the council members: Count back. A senator's duty to expand the parking lot referred to here? How about what? A senator with bigger parking expenses? I wasn't necessarily referring to the parking lot when I asked him why. A senator into the country's income. I know it's not exactly the subject of the bill, but the reasons for the bill are, as clearly stated in the Commission opinion, ensuring the rural communities increase their income to cover the costs of infrastructure. There are ways beyond direct charges, parking fees, larger parking fees, services, whatever their names are. I was actually asking about it in general, but because of what. A senator specifically spoke of a more extensive parking lot, especially of particular urgency. A senator realizes that it is the next step, to extend the warrant here, at more extensive parking costs? How would he visualize them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u141	A respectable president. Then I'll explain myself. With more extensive means, I did not necessarily mean that these will be applied in more places but in the sense that they could be used for more than building up. Not merely a service fee but the tax, or what it would be, which would mean that they could be used to build up other local infrastructures. That's what I meant. If such ideas were to come up, I'm likely to be their sponsor. I'm not prepared to make a promise that I will support all other possible ideas of earning money for state or rural society, since I believe that the level of income for state and rural society may be indiscriminate. I think this particular example of revenue is a very green and very efficient source of revenue, which in addition includes a very positive impulse in many places. By more extensive means, I refer to the more extensive use of the money that ends. I have a positive view of improving my partner's income in this way, but I do not necessarily have a positive attitude for every country partner's idea of raising income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u142	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee to conduct a bill to correct a change in traffic laws, from a smaller part of the environment and transport committee. I'm going to go over a few things and then tear down certain viewpoints, both in them and especially on certain matters that have been discussed in the past. The minority feels that there are things to consider when it comes to accepting this bill. Sadly, the excessive growth in the number of tourists in the country has not yielded enough of the increase in income to the rural population. The great increase in prestige created by tourism has come largely to the State. It is very important to ensure that our rural communities share in the cost and sufficient income to sustain the development of tourism. The structure of an inside building has sat on the side for far too long, and it is clear that a large increase in funding is needed for her. In these areas it should not be considered that specific income must be met, although it is certainly necessary to strengthen the farm population. Service expenditures, such as parking parking costs, are never replaced by financial contributions that can be spent solely for the building and maintenance of the services provided. Tourism is a vast subject that should be considered overall. The government has already planned to bring some of the articles that are being heard in the highest level of merit taxation. There is a lack of clear vision and a comprehensive policy on how to arrange payment for travel services. More important, we need to look to a coming tax. It is important that rural communities receive a righteous share of that price, as well as that which ensures that their communities will have a natural share in the hostilities. The minority warns that with this bill's approved attention to the administrative sector, the financial needs of rural society for building up because of the large tourist stream have been arrived. Because of the nature of services, it is clear that rural society needs more funding than this is expected. The bill calls for how to use the collected fees, more specifically to allow for a flow of construction costs, maintenance and management of sectoral areas, including the salary and the cost of building, maintenance and management services related to the use of parking areas, such as toilet facilities, and building and maintaining walkways and links to other transport agents. There are many factors to consider, such as what is meant by linking with other means of transportation. Then the law raises questions about how the sum of the money will be determined. Will this be reduced when the cost of stock is paid down, and is only due to the cost of operating? Will it be lower in existing parking lots, where services cannot be allowed to depend on the costs of existing building ups? In the bill, there is a lack of clear lines about the real will of the government in these matters. It is therefore unclear whether the parking lot should be used for the access control. If the parking lot is full, will there be access to areas? It is a much larger debate than in this bill, and it calls the lesser part after a secretary's better explanation of the policy. It is important that experts with expertise oversee the process of staging in natural areas. Since the roads and monuments in such areas need to be comfortable with landscapes, it is only natural that the forest and land healings do so. Despite all the defects of this bill and the lack of perspective in policy matters, the memory does not violate the agreed bill. The minority suggests, however, that in addition to the approved bill, a group of workers who are going to pay for travel services will be appointed as a whole, especially in terms of ensuring fair share in the remuneration. This is why I, Kolbeinn Proppé Otttarssonppé, and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, representing the left green of the environment and transport committee. I'd like to make up here some views that are presented in this opinion, especially in view of the discussion I had here. A pilot, Pawel Bartoszek. There are many things I've been worried about this bill, including by considering the needs of the rural communities on increased funding for building up. So I'm glad that the bill's producer sees it as not. But I don't share that opinion. An authority to share the local community in the values discussed or in the revenues created by tourism will be guaranteed only by direct charges of tourism. I completely disagree with what was said, if that was a complete list by then. Senator. The fact is, tourism is making a tremendous amount of money into society even now. Most of the income goes to the state's wealth. The government should take initiative to find ways to get them to the countryside in some way without any special charge, without having to be marketed with income stocks to be over a buck, so that they will be paid a dollar to get paid to the rurals. Then I also worry about how this service fee is thought. There is a fairly complete list of the bill for what it can be used for. Still, it is quite open and would have to be more defined. What is e.g. ▪ Transportation with other transport workers to the United States and the United States of America? There is a sky and a sea between a small road rat on a road and a vast road structure that connects with some other means of transportation. What is meant here is not very clear. Service fees, they have special rules. This is, in effect, an expanded warrant for the use of services. It is done by these laws. There are a number of factors in this list that would not, in my sense, be using the car's service fee to cover expenses. So this dilation is done. Hv. The author of the greater part explained that this also applies to Reykjavík, as was the case when it came to whether any other step would be made to fine or to see if the fee was paid. But I remind you this list applies also to Reykjavík. This dilation of the income of parking costs can be carried out in Reykjavík, as with other rural areas. I'm not sure that behind this bill there's enough diagnostic work to figure out what that means. I'm not sure that this change in the nature of a service charge was intended to end it. What it means in every community. In this case, I find the service rate extremely vague, i.e. But what the amount of it should be, how it should be calculated, according to the opinion of the minority. If it is legal that the service fee can be paid only for certain expenses, will it be reduced when the cost has been paid? When only after the cost of operating? The question was not to be understood. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks believed that he had more extensive parking costs that could then cover further projects. Then we are talking about parking expenses that are just here to be, regardless of what they are supposed to be doing. There's a little more discussion. Then we've just created one of the regular mails into the rural income companies. That's a whole different debate than whether to charge expenses for the construction and operating of a parking lot. I realize what I'm doing. A senator was referring to his own ideas there. You can't find that in this bill here. But that's exactly why I asked. ... becausethisis one of the things I don't think it's going to end here. This is one of the things I think a much wider job should be done, called the general travel wage. New income stocks that enter the community's general business are then part of an even more extensive discussion to be started before it is started, if that is the case. But that all of this cautions we still suggest, as noted in the minority opinion, that this bill will be agreed, since we believe, unfortunately, our rural society has been carrying a large object from a table for far too long. It is necessary to provide this authority with the government's efforts to ensure the reasonable and normal share of the value available in this country regardless of any new currency. The government will continue to serve him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u143	A respectable president. I have ever expressed myself about taxes and revenue in such a way that it was noticed and will not repeat it here for fear of opening up the meeting. Since I didn't feel that the Senator was fully filling my opinion correctly, I would like to make a decision. I said that I would like to use parking fees to finance infrastructure or raise income for rural society an excellent way. I mentioned it as an example of the way I thought it was very good. I also said that I wasn't prepared to join every way to earn money for rural society. But there's a lot of ways I think well. We are designed to raise the sink of tourism, that's a pay raise for the public in a large sense, which I support. There's been an idea of a stay-up fee that would run into a country partner, I'm reasonably open to ideas like that. I don't object to any other idea of infrastructure but this one, so it's settled. But I think this is a good way and that her dilation might be positive. I'm not going to have it any further than that, I just don't want it to be released here that all other ideas of remuneration or revenue for rural society, to build up for tourism, will face opposition from me. Not at all. I put them in line from what I think is reasonable to what I consider less reasonable. That's what I think makes sense. I also consider a relatively reasonable way to make room fees for rural society. But in view of the fact that we are going through a discussion about it right now in connection with a financial plan, I will not promise to make such an effort until the very next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u144	A respectable president. Wait a minute. A senator's pardon is not clear and justified from his opinion. It wasn't my intention at all. That's exactly what I did. A senator spoke of expanding parking fees, but he is at least glad to do so. A senator is open to even more ideas about revenue. I closed my ears in the wrong places and apologized again. As we go to this majority party - pardon a minority party; now I am in the government in my mind, putting on new spells and building up a righteous society - I must view the overall payment that any solid agreement is having to make when traveling services arrive. I don't know how. A senator responds that I take advantage of the opportunity to turn the magazine around and ask him. Does he feel the same way? Does he feel that he needs a collective view of the tourism? Looking at the impact each and every thought has on itself but also if it compares with others? A tax increase in cost tax, inspire fees, parking fees, all of these ideas as well. A senator crossed that he had been upstairs, and he would prioritize on some list - thinks it was a problem. A senator's need to view the matter collectively?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u145	A respectable president. It's very difficult to say no to a whole-scale policy. But I'm going to get into the habit of doing it from time to time, just because it's so easy to say yes to the other. This is because in some cases you can try to assess the effects of certain local decisions. For example, if I look at the parking lots in downtown Reykjavík, I think it's all right to look at the one idea, as a way to let people into a limited resource, the way to pay for the construction of a parking lot, regardless of whether we have high or low taxes on gasoline. That's how people often want to look at it, just say, "Yes, all right, I'm ready to go down payment provided we lower the gas charge back." I'm not really there. It is sometimes easier to examine the effects of each decision than to always tear down the whole system with its roots and not reach any conclusions until we find the most overall way. To be original in answers but also sincere, I would like to say: "No, while whole policy may be good, I do not necessarily believe that we should not move at all without such an opinion, but at times it is enough to be able to measure the quality of each thought alone, alone, without comparing ourselves with other ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u146	Thank you. A senator's sincerity and honesty, and especially the original promise; and simply for answering my questions, though I have turned our roles into answers. I don't put the same connection between the parking lot and the highway in Reykjavík and the roadtoll as the idea I thought was wrong. A senator is pulling up who all turned in some way to cars. I'm looking at the impact of subsidies in the various forms. Hv. I understood that he believed that an overall review of it, the overall impact of various schemes for operating a whole job, wasn't of the best, or that we didn't need it -- not necessary. [[Not necessary.]] Thank you. I'm not sure that the authorities in charge of employment agree, and I'm not sure that I agree with that. I think that exactly what it's about to do and what it does to itself, whether it's suitable, whether it's tailored, how it is, without evaluating the overall impact of other measures, either on a movie or on an idea - I don't think it's a good board. I think the national industry needs to know about the overall impact of such measures on a few short notices. Then there may be a wise course to take and some practical action to follow. But I don't think it's wise to judge and weigh the effects that this has. Perhaps that explains why the expected increase in worthy tax is so surprising to many that they have not tried to assess the overall effect. The lack of such an analysis may add weight to the words of the Association of the Tourist Service, and especially the impact it has on the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. An expert on this committee opinion, as well as for the minority opinion. At first glance, the matter seems to be a good deal of justice, especially if we talk about the communities that have already been left behind for a tourist market. In fact, it is normal for them to make income for rural society so that they can, in turn, build up and receive tourists. But I ask myself, " Is this operation enough to do and whether this way is the right way? ' For me, this heat is short - lived, and it is not a major operation at all to cover the costs of tourism growth. I have a few questions, urgent reflections, mainly on how this process will be implemented. First, I ask myself, " How has the government been concerned with this payment? ' Will we see new parking lots at the Seljalands Falls, or glacier, or Gold Falls? Does the cost go only through long - term automobiles? Is it possible to pay in a short-term or long-term setting? What about buses? Will they pay one or more dollars? 80 - man buses, do they pay higher than little buses? Is this new income supposed to be floundering? How is this compatible with the present organization of many rural communities? Who is it that takes place in the first place? Is it the local community themselves that they have to pay off the cost of their own pockets? Can smaller rural areas simply lose during the operation in the long run? Or, then, will the State come up and invest in these parking lots with their societies? I'm asking myself, I don't know. I also have questions about how to pay. Is a great deal of man expected? Are we going to charge for each car, or are we going to set up a parking ticket in front of this busy, often delicate tourist attraction? I'm just a little worried about this new revenue that's supposed to be the parking lot. There seems to be no cost analysis of these facilities. Moreover, we do not know how much room each would produce and how many new ones will need to be crushed. Is this, then, that the operation is profitable for long - term rural society? How long does one parking lot equal and start returning income to the team? Is that the case? There is nothing particularly comforting for the rural population to take on such projects that they do not really know whether they will contribute. Well, I hope this bill doesn't make it that certain communities are going to run forward and owe themselves to morking parking lots that don't pay until late and eventually. You ask yourself, " Is the state going to run for it? ' These questions remain for everyone. I know it's just one part of this remuneration, I realize that. But there are many questions. The bill says that the cost is made up of building costs, maintenance, business, parking conditions, and the cost of operating and maintenance of toilet facilities, the maintenance of walkways, and the linking with other means of transportation. Then I ask myself, " How high will this price be for all this service to be paid for? ' Do we not think that it is better to search for other means of income to provide a source for this service in many places? For example, by means of an increase in the allowance for stay or a reasonable return fee? Also, we'll consult with the rurals. I wondered if it was good and much. I think top priority is that we're in good collaboration with our communities themselves, which, according to the bill, will take care of all the transfers themselves and by themselves. I believe that it is necessary to have a similar, or similar, distribution in each rural society and consultation and conversation needed to do so. A major factor not established in the bill is environmental considerations. The bill expects everyone to travel through the country on cars. As most of us know, cars need a lot of space, they need roads. How do sensitive tourist attractions fit into ground - to - income parking areas? Sensitive places simply do not have the ability to deal with the brutalized parking lot. Has this been examined or is it assumed that a parking lot would simply be allowed anywhere? The bill also holds the private car in place, I think, as the only vehicle. I believe this will lead to a counterestablishment of public transport. Well, then, they're not as profitable for the locals as they are for the private car. Will it not, then, be a team championship to get as many cars to drive into the area and park for a short or long time depending on the way they plan to implement it? There are no answers. Alternatively, access to natural resources should be free of charge. This parking ticket must not be an access label to natural bulbs, but I'm afraid a private bill will open up on it and, as a result, a public currency has been opened in the form of parking bills. Then there's the right control point. At the previous discussion on the bill, there was access control on your gums, this would be one part of it. But this is even more complicated, since this operation is much more complex and requires more consultation, on grounds of access control. I see this operation, access control, not for me on the bill, and I sincerely hope that it is not thought of. But you ask yourself, " Is there a lot of parking lots of people who have to be tied up with a lot of tourists, so they don't have to disappear? ' But it is positive that the government opens up an opportunity for rural society to earn money. But I don't want this case to be an alibi when it comes to the development of the government as a whole and a good way to the future when it comes to the development of tourist positions and the number of limits in sensitive places. I also don't want this operation to make the government feel enough and then make it seem that, as we know, it's going to take a lot more money to run to their posts and to build up tourist locations and stop places in their hands. The growing number of tourists that have occurred here in recent years has opened up many opportunities and created thousands of jobs. What is lacking is this collective policy of the government. It must be thought complete, not in small solutions and patches. A senator came in just a minute ago. Instead, the government should look at ways like increases in the cost of lodging and that part of it leads to rural society. This route has proved to be a success in densely populated continents. Therefore, it should be particularly noted that smaller rural areas, if we go to this operation, when it comes to sharing because they are often left behind. Although tourists travel through small rural areas, this does not necessarily mean that they will stay in their rural communities. As a result, these rural communities will be of the price, for, as the term indicates, the cost of a stay is bound to stay and pay to the local community, or as the situation today is directed to the State. I think this should change. Recently, today or yesterday, a fine report on the cost of stay around the world appeared on the Web turist. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: During the year 2012, the host tax in this country was placed at a rate of 100 cents per innate, resulting in a total of 390 million last year's tax returns in accord with budgets for 2016. On the other hand, if the host tax had been collected at each hotel, as in other places, a much higher income from the host tax could have been made. If the currency were to be the same as it was in Paris, it would have delivered 1.3 billion more than 150 million from an unsurpassed host like Airbnb. In Rome tourists are charged much more than in Europe and if the Roman population were to be followed by the income would be paid by the United States for their host taxation of 3.9 billion last year. I'm sure we can keep this behind our ear. I'd also like to mention coming charges. In answer to the highest degree. Secretary of finance asking why. paritaprevir Adolescent G. A Harðardóttir daughter reported that according to a number of airline passengers in 2015, over 1,500 dollars would earn money. the tax paid over 2.5 billion. For example, in 2016 the cost would have taken over 3.4 billion, and according to Istavia's plans, the number of passengers on the current year would have made a profit of a comeback of 4.2 billion. This amount of money would be well spent in the community's foundation, as well as in the real structure and focal points of tourism. We left greens have suggested that the entire system will be reviewed by hosting fees and comebacks guided by local communities and states, and I believe we can receive those who choose to come here and be proud of it and do it with dignity. As VG's policy on travel is saying, income is a lot of travel service but does not achieve enough government success. The attraction is to be through markets of centres of income instead of little patches here and there, because that's not likely to work. To say, I think more diagnostic work is needed on this bill, have more consultation with the relevant parties, and further refinement of the case needs to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator will do a great job for an excellent speech. I would like to visit some of the things he mentioned in his talk. As I mentioned in the introduction to this case, I went to the Capitol and set out in my own room. It cost 500 bucks, so we can get some idea of the amount of money involved. It was a whole day ago. Of course, humans can accomplish this in many ways. Second, the senator mentioned, or his words could be understood in such a way that it had not been adequately addressed. Then I'd like to point out that this bill was certainly sent to all members of the country. Most of them were excited about this, so they said it in some way. All the narratives received from rural communities were highly positive, as well as individual rural and national organizations that and the international community put great emphasis on the possibility of an issue. The only comments received were that the currency should be paid only as cheaper. But third, and I'd like to hear a response. This was the case with a senator because he specifically mentioned the private car. I'll admit I'm very interested in people's ability to travel without being on a private car. I am one of the founders of the Free Life - Style Association. I'm very interested in this subject. And one of the things I know that affects whether people choose to travel by private car or not, and it's known, there's plenty of opportunities for free parking grounds in places A and B. If there's enough free parking space, it doesn't matter how long the distance is, people go to a car. If there is not enough free parking lots on both sides, people will not go to a car or they will be less likely to do so. My conclusion is that this should not be fueled by the personal Bible list but, contrary to the fact that people are going their way in some other way and possibly in a environmental way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u149	Thanks for the answer. Of course, the rural communities are thrilled to have something to do with this. I'm not particularly surprised that most of the rural areas are doing this. Still, we have to keep in mind that the Union of rural society spoke of the global policy in this field and mentioned it in its opinion. We have to look at that, too. There may be no room for people who travel by private cars, yes, the motivation to travel in private cars, but the motivation for their rural communities to build up some kind of service is greater for the private car than for those who travel by public transportation. That's what I meant. I'm sorry if it hasn't been completely clear. 500 bucks. For a whole day, I don't know how many stands then, but it hasn't been evaluated, so I know, that it will survive, let alone, if these are new, because new parking lots are very expensive, down, and malbling are expensive things. Otherwise, it's just great with my carless lifestyle, and I'm on it, and maybe I'll join that organization. But what I said was that, of course, the rural communities are delighted to have just a few cents to take action. I just wanted to tell you if it's not better to go in a global policy, for example. ..with a coming fee and a stay fee in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u150	Well, we can take another debate here on a broad-scale policy. But I'd like to respond a little bit if I had the motivation, the parking lot, the payoff, or not. I believe that New York's policy is to charge people for parking lots in the downtown town to get people to use public transportation. That's a good guess. A senator could do so, so they'd rather have people charge for parking. But that is, I think, the experience here and everywhere where the overall effect of such price has been tried, it is that people go to the bus rather than where it's free. While there may be some other law that counts when people travel more distances or move abroad, I do not worry about these factors. I'm not worried that the motivation to make money in parking lots will be great if he overcomes the other motivations that motivate the individual to travel between places in the most practical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u151	A respectable president. Thank you for the second answer. Yes, the motivation to lay within the capital and the motivation to settle many tourist attractions is not the same. It's got to be a lot of pain to charge people at tourist positions because all the expenses we talked about earlier, which these only parking lot have to pay up, are pretty much. In order to get a private car to get someone to go into the parking lot, the community needs to be enormous. Long distances: We can well talk about parking conditions in the city and public transportation. But I always consider it better when the government has some kind of operation that we're not forcing something on people but that we're doing the best thing and that we're living in an environmentally friendly state. We don't force people to use bus. We make a bus so that it's so good that people don't want to use the private car, no matter how free they are. Thank you for your discussion and thank you for the counter-reguage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u152	Mr. President. We're here discussing a change in the traffic laws relating to company access in order to charge parking fees outside urban areas. In many ways, I can agree that there is a great need for parking lots to be around the country because of the great, growing number of tourists crossing the country. There is a need. What I'm worried about and what I'm critical about is that there's no overall policy. The analysis of the overall policy is needed in this nation's largest industry. I feel that governments have neglected and have failed to determine how to make money for infrastructure, as well as about the services that rural society is going to perform in the parking lot, the toilet structure, and the building around tourist areas. This has been being thrown between them like a hot potato for way too long. In 2011 it was adopted to set up the tourist attraction fund and to collect a host tax, the first time in 2012. This treasure has not been so hot that it lived up to its name. As we know, insurmountation fees were collected and still exist. I remember now that the New Year's season has begun to charge in 300 bucks. ... inannuendo, which was $100. To the last year. To date, rural society has obtained no income from this vastly growing number of tourists. It is no wonder that rural society declares its pleasure to have at last some form of income opportunity to build up a situation. I can totally understand that they are happy to have a chance to collect parking bills. Of course, we should have been long ago weighed down on how we can collect our income from the growing number of tourists in order to build up wood in the country. We left greens have spoken for the mixed way of coming charges and stay fees, but this has not yet been met in the council. I think attendances are much better. Based on the figures that are talking about, the pay of a comet could be about 4 billion this year. As reported in the budget of 2019, no more revenue is expected than about 4 billion of the increase in value tax and decline again to 2.5%. It is the income that can be estimated from the extreme dissatisfaction that has been observed in the tourism industry, that there is a mass overtime, and that there is no analysis of the impact on land and different branches within the tourism services, the branches that have not arrived at the location where the giants in the tourism have a full year's work and a huge amount of income from and filing in the article. Travellership in many parts of the country is just beginning to build up a full - time service or now has some chance to do so, so an increase in worth taxation has gone down badly in the article. According to one estimate, this has not been a complete consultation, an analysis, or anything else to be built on in order to achieve such elevations, which at the end of the year show no further improvement of some 4 billion. I'm worried that the parking lot charge is way too vague. Is each member of a community to hire the register? Should it be up to each other's society to determine who the pay will be? I don't like it if there's a difference between parking costs around the country. There are so many things I feel that I could have explained in this matter much better. Is it possible for the people here to buy an annual card at a parking lot? Is that possible? You know that there are often things you can do about it, for example. The campsites, so to speak, are also represented by local societies in their own roads as well as by a tentroom on their roads. Many of these things are important to me, even though they mentioned that there is a charge of 500 bucks on the Capitol. on the day at a parking lot, which doesn't count as high. However, it is unclear what the currency will be and whether any community thinks there will be a future currency that should exist under a different structure but only the car parking structure, the building of toilet facilities, and footpaths and other means of transportation. What does that mean? There's a lot of things in there that I think the explanation might have been much better. Besides, I'm not sure about a community that's planning on attacking a parking lot. So, then, are they supposed to go ahead with the investment and then make money out of long - term parking bills? Or do they have a chance to apply for a building fund under a national programme or to produce a tourist budget for this investment? Farming is very different, and more often, but the number of farms around it is not that much as building up a parking lot doesn't pay itself right away, it might take 10, 15 years, unless you start paying the cost so high that it speeds down the cost of parking. And I think that's a question too, because the interests of rural society are only very different. The lower reductions in rural areas can include many areas that need to be built up, and good parking facilities and facilities need to be readily available. However, the question remains: Can they apply to the funds mentioned earlier in order to pursue these projects? Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé asked: "What about the communities that already have parking lot today? Is it a lower price? Or what about the currency paid in terms of the communities that are going to develop new projects and build new parking lots? These are all questions that I think we need to answer, as well as whether we promote public rights and free movement, that the boat is not being rocked in that matter and access to natural protection sites is guaranteed to be free. But I can see in the comments that have come to the point where my rural society is happy to have something to do with it. They have been calling for some of the huge revenues that have come into the country with tourists. Travellers believe that last year it has put some 70 billion people in it. Of course, there is no small amount in the large context and could have been done with the money, but, unfortunately, they have not been used as they should. Commenting on this, the agency's Association of Tourism notes that they are concerned and that it is reasonable to pay a modest and reasonable price for a worthwhile service at travel sites around the country. However, it would be completely unacceptable if governments or rural groups plan to make use of currency and tax collections in tourism beyond the competitiveness of the article to build up other infrastructures and public services. I can totally agree with that. That is why I call for some diagnosis and overall policy in this major and important case. Of course, the difficulty has been quite remarkable over the years. We all know the debate on the natural passes and landowners who have begun to charge their territory against the law. It's been a pretty high proportion of people who have had to pay for an assembly in a tourist market to get out of it. It has not been until the end of the year if you have received your applications. The period of progress is short, so all of this has been one way, that the funds that have come into the host's budget have not been used as it should have been. Of course, the pipes on all these issues are being revised in this already existing fund or changing the role of tourism's funds. There's another matter at the council. But there's some perspective on all of this. " By permission of the President, " says a review of the Group of Tourists: ▪ The organization is strongly opposed to making changes without analysis of organization and syncance in travel service collections. It is hard to believe that if there are parking bills or other collections, there can be an unregistered payer on the part of the public. The agreement with the government on funding and construction of infrastructure takes place in various areas, and it certainly has the administration of travel directors to further that conversation. The reality, however, is that the increased law and payment of the article is the only thing that governments stress to implement without a complete or open agreement with stakeholders and is reprehensible. I'd like to underscore this, and it's a big mistake to the government not having had this conversation with the tourist service on preparation. Finally, they reach a position within their order of parking fees and believe that they should solve the problem. Of course, it is your fears that they believe that the need of the rural society has been met, that they will get their piece of cake to build wood in their midst. But I think it's far from enough to do it this way. The hostilities will need to be checked for the locals. I also find it strange to collect the same bedside fee, 300 bucks. In the night, whether it's a tentroom or a five-star hotel. Of course, it does not make sense to have the currency in that way. I had hoped that when the night's fee was revised, people would link it to a price of lodging. But that was not done. I think it's right to think that some of the host's fees run to a country partner. Then, too, let us look to equalness. It is a question of how to look at it, for, of course, it is the highest accommodations in the capital area. Also, many rural areas are large because of unity and may not have many facilities within their own territory. They need to maintain infrastructure and receive a huge number of tourists, which call for reassignment and maintenance and services. That's why I find it fair to be at the host's fees, if it runs to a farm partner in any part, not merely looking to where it is formed, but to be a new equal means of it, since more factors need to be looked into than just where the room is and where the income comes in. They also need to consider how large areas of the community are needed, e.g. In large and vast rural areas, the country that has grown in abundance of unity. This matter has been debated, and many people have strong opinions about opening up some pandoro box by putting on parking fees above their heads, so there is a risk that they may stretch further and start charging access into the areas. Of course, it is also a matter of appearance to tourists, if you are not allowed to turn around without a charge for the other and this service, which does not necessarily reflect the service but opens the account of currency from the cost of service. Of course, it should be based on the fact that if rural society and other new ones build parking sites, they need to earn a lot more money than those who have already built parking lots and perhaps are adding and increasing their ministry. This must be much clearer. If this case goes back to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. In order to explain the matter further, I feel that there are a number of questions that I need to ask. They need to have better consultation with the transport organization and work to bring this into harmony. Is this supposed to be some kind of access control? It must be answered too. I feel that there are many questions left, but I fully understand the need. The rurals are short of money. They want some of the cake, so they should. But this alone is not enough; more is needed in order for them to fulfill their role in building up within their own communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I come here primarily to respond to certain reflections, not in direct answer. In terms of the parking lot - we're working on collecting it to survive the current in building the situation - I think there may be one step toward finding a common and consistent way of earning money to support the costs of the services required by the number of tourists coming to the country. Of course, we would like to welcome these people, this hospitable people. However, we cannot overlook the lack of certain services, the lack of funding in that structure. In recent years, we've been looking for ways. I'm sorry, you have to say the right thing, often each hand has been against other people's ideas. This may be one of the things that I feel to be a serious thing to us as a nation, which is a lack of solidarity for a long time. But when we get to the bottom of a solution, we're always over our heads very pleased with her. Despite this desire to welcome visitors, as we have done over the years, we will come to realize that, as priests in the past centuries, who had opened the gaps and offered us refreshments in the cage, we may not be able to feed the whole nation; and we may as well name farmers in the countryside in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u154	Mr. President. Of course, it is always difficult to please everyone in these matters. This may be the way it goes and happens in good - looking homes. You are expecting guests, and you begin by getting your home into the picture that you are pleased to have cleaned up so that your guests can come into your home. It's kind of like a tourist country in Iceland. We who run this home, Iceland, hadn't cleaned up before all these guests arrived. We got them in our arms, and we've been having trouble with which room to start cleaning up. We've been running around and nothing has come of work. I think it's something like that. With these parking expenses, we decided that we should first clean up the bathroom and the bathroom and keep it in order. [[Up front.]] That's how it works. But maybe the whole living room's a mess all over the place. No, I think we should have our attitude about how we see these collections for ourselves. There are many questions in this regard. Granted, a person's ability to see things end may need to take his first steps at times. That is why I will not lie against the bill, far from it, but I will point out that we need to answer some questions that arise when reading it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u155	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee's Committee on bill to correct a change in the defense laws against pollution of the ocean and the coasts and the laws of loyalty and pollution, referred to as EEA regulations, a judicial statute there. The aforementioned opinion reads: The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Helga Jónsdóttir and Hugi Ólafsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry, Snævarr Sólvar, Lúðvík Gústafsson, Karl Björnsson, Halldór Halldórsson, Guðjón Bragason and Telma Halldórsdóttir from the Union of Iceland and Friðriksdóttir Guðný of the Year's Svavarsdóttir, Signu Ágúststsdótir, the Head of Gutorm, Siggitorm's Child, Agnar Bragason, Hildu Hilda Guðððððððððsson of Ingvarsson and Guðsson of the Environment Agency. The Committee received reviews from the Southnes Department of Health, the European Union of Iceland and the Environment Agency. This bill is aimed at enforcing EEA defenses against ships-based pollution and the induction of violations by adding a penalty warrant on loyalty and pollution control so that it can be punished for attempted violations and fractions. On the contrary, they have made no material remarks to the case. On the contrary, the importance of its success has been repeated. The Commission agrees with this, suggesting that the bill be agreed as it should. Under the opinion of the committee, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, chairman and authority, Bryndís Trausti Haraldsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Brældsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Pawel Bartoszek, and Teitur Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u156	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of climate law, No. 70/2012, with subsequent changes, emissions of climate change. The Environment and Transport Committee put this on the subject and has been consulted with Helga Jónsdóttir and Hugi Ólafsson from the Environment Ministry and Hilda Sigurrós Aarnardótir, Sigrún Ágústsdóttir, Director Gutttorm, Sigrótir Friurkóttir, Agnar Bragason, Hiðu the Guðný Svavarsdóttir and Guðmundur Ingvarsson from the EEA. The committee received a review of the Environment Agency case. The bill is proposed to provide the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe 2015/757 with an improvement, but according to the Commission's details, this period was delayed in the past month. Its content is to add a new chapter to climate legislation that stipulates the obligation of shipping companies to monitor the emissions of carbon dioxide from passenger and transport ships over 5,000 bridgetons and to suggest changes in regulations to temporary V in the law on the requirements for flight drivers at 17 and 21. The law. The Commission has not learned that there is a disagreement on the bill, but it points to the EEA's comments on the wording of the provisional principle in the Agency's review and recommends that the Ministry take a position on the Agency's proposal. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under these writings, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, chairman and executive, Bragi Trausti Sveinsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bryndóldsdóttir, Brynjólfsson Braynfjölánsson, Kolbeinn Ottirsson Proppé, Pawel Bartoszek, and Tothol Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u157	A respectable president. I'm here to present a committee opinion about the change in land readings and infrastructure laws, No. 103/2006, with subsequent changes, land information base, and liberation of land data. It's an environment and transport committee at this Committee. The Commission has discussed the situation and has contacted Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. The Commission has received reviews about the case from Alta ehf., Based Office, National Institute of Railing, U.S. and Iceland's national records. The bill aims that all data on land that are bought for public funds will be made available and free. Is the bill thus designed to promote increased cooperation with such data, including between state and rural society, thus maximising the use of public funds and preventing double-work, such as spending large amounts of data. Then, under current law, it is mandatory that Iceland's National Research Centres reduce land data by 1:50. 000 and suggest that the Agency can communicate land information with the exactness needed at any given time. The reviewers of the Committee generally have a positive attitude toward the bill and recommend that it succeed. Substantial to this end, the Commission believes that the bill is designed to improve the legal environment of land analysis and database making by promoting an increased and easier access to more accurate and better data, improving cooperation between public bodies as well as increasing innovation in general markets. The Commission supports the outcome of the case and suggests that the bill will remain the same. Under these writings, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of Kolbeinn Ottirsson Proppé, Director of History, Brís Haraldsdóttir, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Einar Brynjólfsson, Bragi Sveinsson, Pawel Bartoszek and Tothol Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u158	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a Child Protective Code No. 80/2002, which will be added to a new guise paragraph, i.e. When a parent as a child is living at home, the other parent or other persons who have a relationship right under the authority of the legal authorities, the court or the right of the parents, or their deal confirmed by a businessman, may be restricted by, or restricted by, the right of marriage. According to child - welfare laws and the United Nations Children's Convention, children are entitled to associate with both parents. 46th. Children's protection laws are specifically stated that a child has the right to associate regularly with his parents for whom he or she does not live and when parents do not live together, both have the responsibility to take the steps that we will take to ensure that the right is respected. Most important, this right is the child's. In current laws, spiritual violence and spiritual neglect are punishable against the child and its interests. There's a penalty for that. It is considered part of child protection that your child is not being neglected spiritually or physically. I've always believed that illusion, i.e. When a parent who has custody of a child hinders the other parent from taking in the right to get along, it is neglect. This right is in harmony with current child protection laws, and it is considered important for the child's well - being to be associated with both parents. So it is considered, in the current law, that children are allowed to enjoy this right, that is important for their future well - being. These issues may not have been much examined here, but they have been examined in many other places. In general, if a child is removed from a parent, it may be very difficult, perhaps a matter of nature. The reason this bill is written and submitted is that the current 98th gr. child - protection laws have not been used in the presence of these barriers. Therefore, it is considered necessary that this neglect to the children be treated simply as with any other form of neglect. It has been tolerated for many years, that the guardian has made a decision to remove the child from the right. True, a specific handling of these matters is expected in the county, i.e. it is possible to test the method, the use of daylight. When such a strategy comes to be used, it does not in itself prevent a child from becoming involved, but it can be taken right back and a new one begins at zero point. So, really, there is no protection for children when it comes to using illusions in the present legal environment. Therefore, it is necessary to deal with this with a special and specific prophylactic measure, a violation to the child, and should, of course, be treated as any other treatment for children, i.e. Child protection laws are used. There may be a number of ways in which, as in most cases, children's protection and rights can begin trying to get the parent to give up. If this is not done, other measures, such as temporary removal of custody, may eventually be removed. However, if the wrongs are repeated and the parents do not obey, there is, of course, a law where the subject may have to endure punishment, such as in any other crime against children. This is the only way to make sure that children do not miss out on the child's best interests and that the illusion and limitation of association are in violation of parent custody. So it is important that such offenses be handled, which have been very numerous for decades, we are talking dozens of cases each year, and even hundreds of cases that have been involved in such barriers and restrictions. This is merely an attempt to ensure the right of the children, to ensure their well - being in the same way as other offenses that resort to neglect. This bill has been discussed with the mothers of this country, which I must say is a very special discussion. There's nothing here for sex. This is simply to say that the parent who breaks down - it may be and is likely, I'm pretty sure, that mothers are in considerable more part about this. It doesn't necessarily have to be that way for the future, but it probably is. However, this is an important and likely to have a substantial preconceived value so that the parent is aware of the child's duty, rights, and how this can affect the child's well - being. If people do not accept these responsibilities, they will be imposed on them as if they had all other offenses. There is no distinction in this. Finally, I suggest that the case be addressed to the General Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u159	And a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u160	And a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u161	A respectable president. First, I would like to congratulate the senator on his first case as the first traveller. But a senator described a lot of problems here that might be interesting to try to fix before going into the steps of a parent's imprisonment for, well, who knows what kind of violence. The numbers that were on. A senator spoke up against his wrong opinion. It would be nice if a senator could tell us where the numbers are coming from and how they fit in Iceland, because we get other numbers from, for example, other numbers. Children's agent, referred to in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u162	What numbers are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u163	Hv. A senator says that this should ensure the right and well - being of children, but I would like to know what situations might arise that would make the child better for him to have a parent in prison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u164	V.E.G. President. We can ask these questions to every transgression parents commit to a child. Really, this is a very ridiculous question. If at any other time we admit that this is a violation of a child, there is, of course, a penalty. It's not that complicated. If we, however, and the senator may mean it, let's say that this illusion is not a fraction, it's just the parent's private life that has a presumption, you should just say that. If this is a violation, however, it is a law against it, as it were for all other offenses. If a parent does not take his child to school, if the child is not treated with the child, then the current law of five years is in prison, up to five years in prison, if the parent does not take him to the doctor, not care for his physical, mental, and physical health. It's nothing different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u165	A respectable president. This is the point. If we acknowledge that this is a violation of a child. But here it is very difficult to tell the difference between parent and parent whether there is really no parent's sincere desire to protect the child. It is extremely difficult to prove that it is not. I can't see that some court authority can take the right to say: "No, you don't have the best interests of the child in this case. After making negotiations and other forms of negotiations, we've been overrun. There's nothing that deserves to be imprisoned at least. It's the key here, the jail. There's got to be a way of doing this differently, and it's not going to lead to prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u166	V.E.G. President. The child is not a personal person who is precarious. Sincere Wants to Protect Your Child? Why, then, are these principles in child - protection laws that make it important for the child to be able to associate with both parents? Shall we take it out of the law? No, we won't. I think everyone has to realize that this article in the bill that is being added turns to the decision of a legitimate authority, judgment, judgment, or agreement. This is not true in some dispute over whether a child is safe with the other parent. It's not like that. Because there's a conclusion. And if an experienced parent believes that the child has stopped being with the other parent, it is a special child protection issue. It's over at child protection. Then you don't have to worry about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u167	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator moderated himself in this legal process. As we know, when judicial action is imposed, there is always a need to be moderate. When we're talking about such delicate matters as child custody and even the imprisonment of parents for illusions, I ask myself, " Is it not wiser to take less measures than prison? ' Because if the child's right to associate with both parents should be respected, we hardly help them properly by putting one parent in prison. So I want to ask you why. A candidate in a word found in the bill's report, as discussed here at the moment, by permission of the president: It is assumed that the child - protection authorities can handle these matters that concern much of the child's high interests and that there will be alternative measures under child protection laws, such as temporary extramarital protection or the removal of the custody of the offender is serious or repetitive and not proposed to be reformed. Could he explain only how this one law applies also?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u168	V.E.G. President. This, of course, applies in the same way as 98 C.E. is today. It says: Neglect, spiritual, physical, is a prison for up to five years. That's all they say. Of course, it is stated in the report that this is a child - protection issue. Of course, all rights of child - protection laws apply to children's health authorities. That's what it says. But I say in this article that when a parent does not take his child to a doctor, does not give the drugs to be given, does not take them to school, that is not the first thing to do. They try to make things right. The Child Welfare Act is responsible for this. Then there are other less sensitive measures. However, this may occur when, despite all these options, men fail to respond to the information, then go on over and over again. [[The president calls.]] Then there may be no other option but to issue charges and to apply these laws. This is simply expected in child protection laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. If so, I may want to come back to a moderate degree and ask if it would be preferable to refer to a less sensitive approach to matters such as these, since it is often a very sensitive matter between two people who have a child, of course, whose right is at stake. But is it really so, and on what foundation is that conviction based? A senator, that it is in accordance with a moderate measure of the use of prison penalties in such delicate matters as these in the case of an actual custody dispute between parties? Is it not wiser to have a somewhat weaker option, such as a temporary detriment, which in its matter rather than a prison sentence? I'm sorry. A senator would not agree more with the moderate rule of choosing less options first?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u170	V.E.G. President. The average rule is very important. But what a misunderstanding this is about when people are in a custody dispute! The issue of custody is now assumed to be over. That's the point. There is a conclusion, and there is no conclusion. The conclusion is based on the well - being of the children. Once the conclusion has come, it's not about custody issues. You can't confuse it. But I am not, and I have never been considered a criminal. Maybe it's the opposite of a lot of other people. This prison punishment isn't sacred to me. I'm not interested in prison punishments over my head. Thinks they're too used to it in Icelandic society. We may be able to review it, and we may conclude that it could then be custody or custody. It's okay to go over it. Let's go over it. The committee'll probably review that. That can be an excellent result. I'm just trying to keep this in line with what is now in force. That is why there is a law for up to five years in this too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u171	Mr. President. I think we all share the opinion that this situation needs to be taken into consideration. But I don't think prison will solve it. On the contrary, I think in most cases, it will be the worst for the baby. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council is to make this clear under child - welfare committees, who should be neglected as a matter of course. A senator spoke of, strengthening the resources of child welfare committees throughout the country. They have resources that don't belong to the county, and they treat them with neglect, such as when children are not put in school or not given to eat. I'm asking if it's the wrong way instead of using it. Then I'd like to ask a few questions about custody later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u172	V.E.G. President. The purpose of the bill is to make this clearer: it is the same as in 1 Corinthians. mg. spiritual neglect. But because those who have undergone current laws have not signed this under spiritual neglect, I felt that, to make it clear, it was necessary to have a special law on this matter. That's why it's like this. To explain. This is done for the purpose and as a response to what is already under child protection, that it is relevant to the child's well - being, this is the child's right. It doesn't mean to have it in the law if parents get away with it and act as they please and do it for years and decades and take away their rights and upset their wells.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u173	Mr. President. That's the point. It's about the baby. People are so many, and each example needs to be considered. It's a question of whether such things can be placed in such a regular structure. But first, it was said of custody earlier: At times both parents are equally qualified. At that time, a parent who is unable to make contact and who is blocked into another premeditated matter may be able to do so. Likely, then, the illusions would be considered to be less appropriate than the other parent, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u174	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's desirable and convenient for parents to engage in expensive lawsuits if we agree that this is a violation. That's the first thing we have to think about. If we agree that this is a violation of the child, which can have serious consequences for the well - being, just as a child is neglected in other ways, does not go to school, does not have the spiritual development of the child, etc., only if it is once spanked. What's the penalty for that? Up to five years in prison. And then there's an overwhelming concern that a parent in advance decides to disqualify the child from all contact with the other parent. [[Take it up to "Sell."]] Even like that. And then they just say, "Just sue. Why don't we tell the Child Protector on other forms of neglect: Well, do you sue? No, child - welfare authorities must be able to cope with this neglect, as do all others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u175	Mr. President. I want to know the details. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son has passed through barriers and violations of associations. He mentioned in his earlier talk that there are hundreds of attacks. I want to know exactly which numbers he's referring to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u176	V.E.G. President. Does it really matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u177	It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u178	That's a very strange question to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u179	That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u180	- No. I'm simply saying that we who've been doing this for 20 or 30 years know exactly that there's a lot of people. He runs at tens of them every year. A precise number? This will be evident only in the treatment of the case mentioned in the committee. This has always been known, has been known for many years. There are amazing numbers of subjects on this subject, many great barriers and restrictions. Of course, there is no key to this. At least we know that these issues involve dozens and hundreds of children and have done so in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u181	President. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson is that it doesn't matter. A recent answer from April 4 of the Ministry of Justice, to a request from Valdimarsson St. Valdmidaron on the decision to bring a child into contact with a marriage parents, says that this is so. A senator is talking about running on hundreds is not all that is right. Correspondence issues that ended in 2007,2016, with a contract between the two parties, were a total of 2,078. In comparison, paediatric patients can be informed. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son about that same period of time, 2007,2016, was the number of cases requiring an approach to socialization for a total of nine. Nine of them. They do not run in hundreds, not on dozens, there are nine of them over a period of nine years. That's a lot of people who haven't. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson says that this context is of no consequence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u182	V.E.G. President. The business involved doesn't say everything and really don't say anything. There are dozens of cases each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u183	What numbers are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u184	Let's just find out the numbers. We who've been working on this, huh? Senator, we know it's a lot of dozens a year. We just know that. [[Up front.]] Whether it is 19 or 20 or 25 or 30 is of no importance in this discussion in recent years. [[Up front.]] That's an amazing number of cases. Hv. A senator can simply join the particular group of companions that have been exposed to the illusions of the past few years. I wonder how many of them there are. In fact, it is very extensive, costly, and difficult, and it has no meaning, as the examples prove.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u185	President. The figures discussed here are very familiar with the figures presented in an interview with a child's agent. What's interesting about those numbers is exactly the number of cases ending with treaties. That's clearly where the problem is. We need to work harder to complete and speed up that treatment so that people do not have to wait in some uncertainty about the process we know can take long. There's the problem we need to solve. It's already improved for use. We just need to be better at using what already exists. It's not long since those songs were updated. The legal bill suggests the change in child protection law that punishment will be done against parents as barriers or limits to children. It suggests that punishment will be in prison for up to five years. The law does not define what the term illusion of population is, but it has generally been based on the illusion when a parent prevents him or her from enjoying association with the other parent, such as by holding a child in a locked apartment when it is to be picked up, taking a child from a home when he is to be contacted, or not bringing a child to the place where the child is to be delivered. In 1st. The child protection law says, with the permission of a president: ▪ What is best for a child should always take first priority when making decisions about the child's affairs. The basic thought of children in Icelandic law must always be to ensure that children's well - being and that their rights are respected. In the 3rd. The United Nations Children's Covenant, with permission of presidents, says: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. According to a bill in this article, it is a spiritual neglect to deprive the child of the right to associate with both parents. It says by permission of the president: ▪ A large number of studies show that a child who is deprived of the possibility of contact with a parent can become emotionally and spiritually burdensome for the future. These words contain a tremendous paradox and the same in the subject of the bill. Because of imprisonment, the possibility of a child being involved with the parent who is imprisoned is, of course, limited. Far from seeing whether it is a parent who is punished, had a right to conduct, or was a guardian of a child, it is obvious that in a prison cell or other means of saving, a parent cannot provide his child with the environment that he needs to have a natural and successful upbringing. So, then, the amount of punishment presented here can not only be burdensome for the parent who brings it but also for the child. It must be difficult for a child to endure the fact that one of the parents is sentenced to punishment, and it cannot help but adversely affect the environment in which he or she is raised. In effect, when a parent hinders a child's association, in many cases the parent is the guardian of the child. How can it be in your child's best interests if he or she is sentenced to prison? This may be a very sensitive matter for the child. The blame for the parent's imprisonment may have consequences for the child and may even blame himself for it. The solutions we will discuss here must be designed to improve the child's interests. This problem will be solved, not by punishment, but by improved assistance and monitoring. Not by punishment. It is not physical violence, such as spanking or worse. Yes, it's a very difficult situation, everybody knows but having the chance that one parent, like the other parent, can. A senator expressed it - this could have a preemptive value. If the result of this bill becomes that one child falls into the grip of a violent party because of fear or threats to prison because the violent parent uses the law to force the custody parent to make contact, then this bill is to blame. In current child protection laws, in particular 2 mg. 46. ................................................... The report on this article shows that it is not considered by the Committee to suggest that forced means of making contact should be adopted when a parent fails to care for a child. The committee does not know that such measures are found in other national legislation, and it is reasonable to expect that most people can agree that there can be a significant question about the benefit of a parent who does not have a child's will. Indeed, the bonds and limitations of association with a child are serious problems. How important it is to prevent them, and it can have a devastating effect on the rearing of a child who lives in such a parent's way! But this way cannot be the right way. The numbers also show what was quoted earlier. The problem is that there are a number of cases in the negotiation process, the length of the negotiation process. That's where the difficult things are. Probably would never be incarcerated until that route is no longer possible. In these nine cases over nine years, one case a year, why should a parent... [[It's not like that, you know better.]] According to the information that we receive from a child's agent, these figures are rhymed here with very well-designed figures. I can't wait to see the agent's review on this. To throw a parent in jail for illusions cannot be right. There are other ways that are relatively new to establish by law. There is no need to strengthen them and to improve their efforts. It is the process of negotiation that we must first stress, at least, and see how it works before going into such serious action as throwing a parent in jail.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u186	V.E.G. President. I don't know why. A senator had his ears closed earlier during the discussion. This is not a matter of throwing some parents in jail. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator, to be clear: Does the senator believe that such barriers to a child are expected here? This is not a question of negotiations, has come to a conclusion in the case, has been negotiated, has been pronounced, has been ruled out. It's not about people being in a fight and throwing others in jail. It's not about that. Counts 'em out. A senator of this crime against the child? Counts 'em out. A senator that other offenses involved in the same punishment could not be as bad to the guardian as this? So why don't we just stop punishing a parent, no matter what he does, unless the child is in danger, or what? Where's the limit? They don't lie at one of them spankings. That's what we need to answer. If this is a violation, I'd like to know if the senator thinks it is or not. If he agrees that this is a violation, should it not be a penalty for such offenses as for all others, whether it is this punishment or any other?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u187	A respectable president. How often, then, the laws of child - welfare law have been used to send a parent to prison on a legal basis. A senator points in?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u188	Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u189	Exactly. Never. A dead law letter according to the sources we received from e.g. Children's sponsor and agent. Yes, an illusion is a very serious matter. And, yes, is a violation of a child. But no, there's absolutely no need to put parents in jail for that. There's nothing more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u190	What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u191	There are plenty of ways to deal with these problems. The process of reconciliation is emphasized. It is by means of the best possible means of reconciliation. We may not be good enough in it. We may not have come far enough with that system. But the solution to our inability is not just to say: "Oh, we can't do better in the treatment of reconciliation, can't put enough into it, so we'll just throw parents in jail. If the Lawgiver does not want to throw parents in jail, it may be necessary to endure such punishments. A senator said in his history, so it should not be in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u192	V.E.G. President. I don't understand this argument. Hv. A senator says it's a violation. When children are violated, there is always a law against them. It's prison, always. Guards or fines, always. There's always wood. Otherwise, the law has no meaning. Of course, it's just the same with this fraction. If we can, under certain circumstances, judge a parent in prison for not caring for his child so as to receive a normal education, to take him to school, it is just as difficult for the child to look after his parents in prison for this. Of course, this is not the case with the first offense. Not in these matters, not in others. It won't be done either. This is merely a time to reconcile the penalty to the existing offenses. I can be sure that it's more important for a child to be taken from a parent than to be spanked once. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u193	A respectable president. It may well be. I'm not going to judge that. The way children handle such matters is undoubtedly unique. But I can't see any conditions in this kind of cases where the child feels better about having a parent in prison. I don't see any situations where it helps. I see, however, situations in which this law can be used as a forced force to establish association that leads to a child becoming involved in violence. Just because of that, I wouldn't be able to see to agree that prison punishment is involved in this offense. There are many other ways that are far more humane and childlike than that of a parent's imprisonment in this violation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u194	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalize a change in child protection law where the goal is to make it a punishment to hinder association, that it may be up to five years' imprisonment by decision, judgment, judgment, or a proven partnership. I must express my view at the outset that I find the bill extremely sad in all respects and totally unrealistic. In particular, a child's own best interests are out of the question, and it is not meant to protect children's rights in custody and social matters, but to protect only the rights of parents, the rights of a particular group of parents. And to remind both members of Congress and others of it, it is clear that the law of child rights in Icelandic law is to do only what is best for the child - not for parents, but for children. For one thing, in the bill of the carrier and the Supreme Court attorney Brauns Níelsson's son Brauns was neither able to identify any measured definition of illusion nor is that term explained in any way. In fact, there is nowhere in any law a clear definition of illusion, whether in child protection or in any other law. Also, the bill does not refer to any tests of illusion or limit, either to alleged toleration or to its reasons. In fact, the terms guise and limitation are summed up. In a sense, then, the scientific grounds for the bill are of a very limited degree, and it surprises me very much, Madam President. And it is not enough that the concept of illusion is defined or explained properly by means of the bill; rather, it can be read from the text of the bill that the term guise is a common problem, as the report in the bill says, by permission of the president: ▪ Known and relatively common, it is that the parent who lives with barriers or severely limits a child's involvement with the other parent, acting in harmony with the decision, judgment, judgment, or agreement. Madam President. These statements are very harsh, and I object to these statements on behalf of all the parents who give custody to their children and also on behalf of parents who share shared custody of their children but who live with their children in children's legal homes. This claim that a well - known and fairly common parent lives in a barrier or severely limites that a child is involved in the other parent's behavior is simply wrong and is by no means convinced in one way or any way in the report here. And for information, again, it may be noted that in answer to the minister of justice to the question. paritaprevir Jón, son of Steindór Valdimarsson, of April 4rd. you will find very helpful information that we can benefit from the discussion of custody and society and the so-called illusions. For one thing, it says that the emergency that exists in the child - welfare Act, which includes the fact that if a parent with a child continues to interfere with association despite the decision of day - to - day guilt and charge for unsupervised daily fines, a judge can demand what is right with a child, warrant that sexual relations be brought upon him. That means allowing a child to be taken out of the care of a parent with whom he lives and moving one or more members of a parent. In all, the number of times allowed, a total of nine, over the ten - year period of 2007, to 2016, was very few. And, unfortunately, some of these few exchanges are repeatedly centered on the same children and parents, who, of course, are very sad for all concerned. However, this low number, in response to the Minister of Justice, confirms that this maximal feature of the authorities due to contact with the other parent is only a matter of time away and confirms that the overallity presented in the bill is not appropriate, the illusions we now address, that it is widely known and that it is quite common. In fact, an overwhelming part of society is blessed with success and companionship without opening up a day - to - day issue. Similarly, an overwhelming number of day - to - day matters are brought to a halt because contact is made possible. Very few cases end with daily stress and, in extreme circumstances, an event in which the child is brought under a court order. Sadly, the most extreme disputes are present in our society, but they are far less frequent than the emotional and often uniform talk of society often indicates. Thus, the media debate on these very sensitive issues, relating to association and custody issues between parents of children, is by no means designed to reflect the reality of the system in these institutions and employees working with this delicate group of subjects. And children's protection laws have tools and tools that can be used in difficult business, which for some are certainly not completely happy, such as the requested procedure. There are certainly tools and tools in the law, so you can't see why changes in child protection laws are proposed, as are being done here. The goal of child - welfare laws is to ensure that children living in unsatisfactory circumstances, or children who put their health and development at risk, are provided with the necessary assistance. According to their objective law, endeavor to reach their goals by strengthening families in their role of parenting and by using resources to protect individual children when appropriate. How difficult it is, then, to see that the parent's imprisonment for the full five years as a result of illusions is part of those goals! A five - year prison sentence would be interesting to compare with other criminal offenses. What is the punishment for the serious neglect of children? What is the penalty for serious physical, mental, or sexual abuse against children? Will the cases of the same sentence be called a step forward for peaceful relations or even for years of parental controversy? Is it possible that the punishment of another parent's sentence or imprisonment could even harm more children in the long run? What's best for children in this situation? Is that not a peaceful relationship, stability, and balance? I would have thought so. The law of justice found in this bill has no place in fostering the interests of children. It is clear that the penalty penalty given in this bill is severely severe for children, since none of the Northern countries have so far taken child protection laws into the court of justice. This has not been done in all the states of the North countries, and yet this case has been investigated and thoroughly investigated in the North countries where family and child rights are very strong. For one thing, a discussion of the 2013 Children's Protection Act showed that none of the Northlands in this country have been able to take the legal course, and there is no evidence to suggest that the penalty, such as five years'imprisonment, contributes to the increased association and well - being of children. There are no studies or studies until the order of the test is established. So it's clear that the bill we're discussing here is going against the family and child rights in the North countries, completely. And I don't agree that these delicate, complex issues will be presented to the child - welfare authorities, who despite their expertise in the tables, are sadly in violation of their legal work in the present circumstances of financial and human resources. Nor is it being discussed in matters relating to child - welfare projects. Children's protection is not involved. They're on the table of the police, the prosecution and the courts. Madam President. You can't let go of the sex friendship discussion about this bill. In this country, however, the most common option of parental divorce is the common one. In some cases, the mother only holds her custody, but for only a few times a father goes premeditated. Of the 598 divorced parents in 2006-2010, 477 were premeditated; 112 mothers were premeditated against nine fathers alone. This is shown in the numbers of Haguems of 2017. Statistics published on Iceland's Habitats reported that in 2017, over 90% of children live in Iceland, i.e. Parents who divorced their mothers. Clearly, then, the weight of the penalty frame planned by the bill would be used primarily against women, used against mothers. And how do we feel about it as a bill directed against mothers? It is also necessary to know the percentage of fathers who seek the custody of their children in order to set a proper discussion of these matters. It is difficult for a feminists to support a bill that works against the interests of mothers if they are the most multicultural care group of children of divorce. Children's bonding with their parents is essential to human nature, but loyalty to their parents, whom children could experience as a result of divorce, can greatly add to the distress of children. And as adults and as part of the legislature, we are to protect the interests of children. Madam President. That I know there's a much deeper and more comprehensive way to deal with society and custody than in this bill. In the process, we need to focus much more on the treatment of reconciliation earlier and on progressive psychological counseling or family counsel for parents who are divorced. We need to strengthen the county office on the object of incest, which is in their field of work. We also need to secure funding to cut down a significant amount of time from the state of the county because of decisions on how to make contact with a businessman in the capital area is 14 months from parental divorce and in order to have them land in their own business. The long wait time is unacceptable for all, especially for children in question, who are eager for firmness and clarity in their prevalence, which is usually extremely complex and difficult after parental divorce. The solution is to settle matters well because it is the best thing for the child. Conspiracy has been very effective, and the agreements made in terms of reconciliation seem to be more effective than decisions. Research shows that many of the concerned children are under stress because of parental conflict, a legal matter is not a solution to their stress. Children do not ask for their parents'differences or that one of them is imprisoned for five years. It tells itself that bitter and long - standing disputes and disputes have a bearing on children, they are often under extraordinary pressure and constant pressure, struggle with anxiety, live in anguish, and some cannot look for parental support. It is very common for children to blame themselves for their situation, and they often feel guilty. Yet, we do well to know that differences between parents are never to blame for children. It is good to consider how children in this situation would feel if one of the parents were to go to prison because of this, or if the child knows of the possibility and that he is real. It is necessary to improve the overall development of child rights, not by the rights of a large group of parents, who go into the media with their side of the story. A respectable president. You see, it's a very delicate business of trans-circuracy and we need to be careful how to discuss it. The media debate on these very delicate issues, in connection with social relations and custody differences between parents of children, is by no means designed to reflect the reality of the system that is working with this group. A respectable president. I hope the treatment of this sad bill will be professional, careful and careful. All concerned deserve it, and especially the children of parents who have been involved in social and custody issues. Let's keep the discussion more objective and objective, considering the overall issues and solutions in improving this supervillain. This bill does not, nor does it keep custody and close association in conflict. It's sad, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u195	V.E.G. President. I have to say, I think it's a perfect miracle to make this case a gender matter. It's hard for a feminist to accept because mothers - it's about the children. It's not about mothers or fathers, it's about children's rights. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator: Does the senator believe that segregation is a violation of the contract, a decision, a court order, a violation of the child's rights, or not? I want a simple answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u196	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Ermur Níelsson's armour simply doesn't agree that the sexe is a major part of this matter. Just because, as I explained in my talk, even today, in 2017, 90% of children of single parents are living with their mothers. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armour asks if I find a violation of a child's rights in violation of any kind. In a similar way, though not defined in a detailed way, violations of association and, as a result, guise are indeed common. A senator traced his speech earlier, a violation of a bond that has been made between parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u197	Is this a violation of the rights of young children?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u198	It is certainly the right of children to associate with their parents if this is in the best interests of their children. Then it is, certainly. But as I said before, we need to improve this party, strengthen reconciliation, strengthen parental counseling, and shorten the waiting time that parents understand the switch to wait for an impact on their affairs. For if the time is extended, where uncertainty exists, and there is no agreement, then things are often becoming worse. This is a bill that I'm convinced of, unlike what I'm seeing. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson, is prepared for the benefit of a certain group of parents, not to guide the child's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u199	V.E.G. President. That's a strange statement. To tell me that I'm looking out for some group in town instead of children. It's about the kids. If we are, like a whale. A senator said that it is an offense against the child to take it from this court that the senator must say in the other word: Yes, if it is a violation, there must be a law against it. It's not about a question that's about if it's for the child's benefit. Of course, a sentence or a decision or a contract will not be decided unless a person has concluded that this will benefit the child. There would never be such a conclusion in other matters. So, of course, it is clear that the child's interests are underneath. It's just about the baby. I'm not connected to this group, even though there was a search for me after I mentioned that I had this kind of experience. Blessedly, I am not in the position of this group, which, of course, is very bad. But I don't care about this group. I do, however, care about the children. I can put myself in the child's shoes, losing one parent because the parent says, " I don't want you to associate with the other parent. ' That must be quite a shock. And the same principles as these and other offenses must be applied to children. Nothing else is being asked for. It's so far out of focus and probing to talk here as if mothers are being locked in here on a big scale. It's not like that. It's also the way in the North countries it's a child protection case. This is a child protection issue in Denmark. They're just taking a cape off. I'm ready to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u200	Madam President. It's nice to hear that. A senator feels that missing out on association and seeing a parent is shocking for the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u201	It's just taken over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u202	Still, he is putting in a bill suggesting that one parent be thrown into prison for five years. I think there's some sort of strange reasoning about it. A senator and a Supreme Court attorney. I want to point 'em, too. A senator says that we already have some resources to use in this situation, these tragic situations - a family tragedy - of which we are. A senator agrees. We are under child - protection laws on the decision of day's fines, financial training for unsolved daily fines, and then the procedure where police come into the home and remove a child to be associated with the other parent. That action, however, is not indistinguishable, nor is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u203	Never worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u204	This operation is not indistinguishable, so I find it extremely difficult to see that throwing another parent into a five - year prison is a better and milder operation to solve the problems of these children. I don't know why. A senator remembers that this law, which is about five years in prison, has power on these matters. But I ask, "Why does it want to be? " paritaprevir Doesn't Neelson's Níelsson tend to be the source of resources at previous levels? Is there a better way to strengthen options, counseling, and financial resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u205	Because it's...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u206	In order to relieve the suffering of the children he is so concerned about, the funds to those who already handle these matters are spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u207	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Beynfjörn's daughter for a detailed review of the left - green position on this matter, but also for some interesting and remarkable facts about it. I'd like to get out of that friendship, but also my own, to talk only about the flaws I see in the bill that lies before us right now. This includes putting up a prison sentence if a parent becomes aware that a barrier to association with a child with another parent. As we have seen, the bill shows that there are sweeping statements on how things are being handled at this point. The bill does not appear to be based on any confirmed analysis or information or information that can be considered and discussed on that basis. In that light, I want to talk about moderate behavior, as I did when opposed to what happened. paritaprevir Brunes Brynjar's Níelsson earlier. As we know, imprisonment and liberation are actually the worst penalty the State can impose against its citizens. Do we want to apply it, or do we want to set judicial decisions in general law or law? If we are to use prison terms to correct some particular course of conduct, we need to have a moderate measure of mind, i.e. that other less efficient measures are not available and that the solution or punishment that is being made is the right way to approach the present problem, that it can produce some results, that these are good laws. I have found that there is no greater evidence that a parent is imprisoned for undefined, in any way by law, a crime against his children, as they say. I have every reason to discuss an illusion. I have every reason to resolve the problems of the families in such a situation. But I'm not at all, and far from convinced that this way is the right way to solve the problem. Rather, I believe that the support of the current layer should be reinforced. The handling of these matters should be up - to - date. A professional assessment of what to do should be made, what experience has been elsewhere, how to deal with such situations. I think that if there was a survey of professionals, if there was a major investigation of these matters in the country, it would probably not be their solution because a second parent inhibits the child's access to the other parent to be put in jail, and thus the child's access to the possibility that the parent would be inhibited. Well, I think it's a certain Šoxymoron, as they say. Instead, I feel that, as I've come to, there might be a less sensitive option. This would include a temporary depravity of trajectory in trajectory matters something that could be considered. But once again, I am no expert on how these matters are best handled. I find it important that there is a somewhat more thorough and professional assessment of the position of these cases today behind the proposal of prison punishment for specific behavior and whether prison punishment for specific behavior would necessarily be the correct solution. I don't think I'm a judge of that. I think there are others who are much better educated and more experienced than I That kind of thing is complicated and fragile. Actually, I don't think it's at the hands of one senator trying to come up with some sort of solution. In fact, I would have considered it a lot more successful to bring in an arrangement where an appropriate minister would be assigned to explore the best way of working against this problem and in consultation with relevant stakeholders, in consultation with experts who know how to deal with such matters. I don't see that exactly this implementation is in accordance with child protection laws, like what happened. paritaprevir Hermes, Níelsson's son, has said this. Now I have considered the laws of child protection that have prison punishment as a law of law. Nowhere is there an article, except for one article that also seems to be most serious against a child who is talking about serious violence, or abuse, as the law says, that it can be imprisoned for up to five years unless there is a greater penalty under other laws. In all other requirements, fines are also expected, which are less effective in judicial legislation in the general population. So it seems strange to me, and not in accordance with the general spirit of these laws, child protection laws as they stand today, that guilt and milder measures are not even assumed on such matters. I really don't think there's anything wrong with this bill. I think we're gonna have a reaction to worry. A senator of this suit and concern. A senator on the well - being of children would be much better at a church arrangement where a very careful assessment could be made. Like what? A senator may rarely find much time in committees. I find it hard to see that such a bill will benefit children or their parents as it stands today. So I propose. A senator may well review his suggestions and consider whether it would be better to submit a Senate decree where professionals might be involved in the case from early stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u208	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator, like many others here tonight, constantly discussing this punishment, five years of imprisonment, throwing mothers into prison, throwing people in jail. I'd like to ask them what. A senator, as I have asked others here: Does the senator believe that this is a violation of a child, a neglect on the part of the parent, the second parent? If the answer is yes, I hear most people say yes, but it always comes: but you can't throw anyone in jail. If the answer is yes, it is made in just the same way into the laws and laws that already exist regarding spiritual neglect. It is in current law that spiritual neglect toward a child involves imprisonment for up to five years. Of course, if we agree that the fellowship barriers that are well explained in the report, even though there is a rather large paragraph on what it means to be a violation of a child and to have a negative impact on the well - being of a child for a long time, there must be the same procedure as other neglects. I don't know what's so complicated about it. This does not mean, as is the case with other forms of neglect, that there is simply mothers or parents being thrown into prison, as it is claimed. It's just a clear act, a violation against a child. Once you've done that, once you've said a, you've got to have a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u209	Madam President. The answer to a question why. The senator is, of course, yes. It is a violation of a child's ability to hinder his or her association with the other parent when this is not done to protect the child's life or health. On the other hand, we're going to speak for granted. That's all it says in the bill anyway. A senator, that it was up to five years for a parent to hinder a child's association with the other parent or for others who are to be treated by a court of law, judgment, justice, parental rights, or agreement confirmed by a businessman. It's just one piece. It is a matter of imprisonment in such conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u210	Yeah, to break it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u211	It is about making this a crime involving imprisonment. [[Take it up, like all the pieces of...]] No, not like all fractures, huh? paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. There are penalties for violating laws other than prisons. As I did earlier in my case, guilt is also suggested. There are other penalties that can be applied to fractures that are not found in the bill anyway. Senator. The plan, 98th pars. child protection laws, which are severe. A senator refers to it quietly, with the permission of the president: ▪ If those who have children in their care abuse them spiritually or physically, abuse them sexually or otherwise, neglect them spiritually or physically, so that life or health risks them up to five years unless there are more punishment according to other laws. This law is clearly an example of the most serious errors that caregivers can commit to children in their care. So I ask why. A senator versus: Does he feel the same way? [[The president calls.]] Does he feel the same way about this scrambling thing? There are other laws in this code where there are much smaller laws that are at least comparable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u212	V.E.G. President. This bill is based on the fact that being removed from contact with a parent is serious for the spiritual health of your child. We can only imagine. We're getting drunk with both parents. A child is ten years old, and then only one parent is taken from it. It's just as if they're going to die. Taking a parent in this way is a big, big offense to the child, isn't it? [[Up front.]] The bill is presented just to maintain harmony. Spiritual neglect is a serious offense. Misappointing a parent's child is a serious offense. However, I have said and said here in my speech: " This is not a big matter to me. It's just the way it's done, so it's normal. If the council wants to change this law and to state clearly that it is a violation and that the penitentiary could be temporary deforestation, or it's all right with me. I think that's exactly how it is in Denmark. It's okay with me. But this is just the way it is used to maintain harmony because it is considered to be a serious offense to the child's spiritual health. It is based on the children's protection laws as they are today, based on their opinions and research, as shown in a fine Castlight show. In many places this has been examined. The committee just reviews it and then just changes it, or proposes to have it in some other way. But if we admit that this is a violation, we must be some kind of penal code, the offense can be handled like any other offense. Transient depravity, depravity, that's a good option. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u213	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is making some straws when he repeatedly claims that the illusion of another parent is not against a child. It's just not the case at all. On the other hand, we have, me and some more of them. Councilmen, point out that it is a penal code. A senator suggests not necessarily the best way. In fact, I find this matter really undesirable to go on in the present form because I believe that we would need to look at the overall situation and how to work in it rather than just put in jail punishment on this case and call it dead because there are some laws that can be dealt with. We have seen here that there are some repairs even now that can be applied. However, we know that more support is needed for families. We know there's no alternative in early stages like this. There's no better treatments, better negotiations, better negotiations. They need more and better funding, better support. I think it would be much better to start there. That's why I suggested something. A senator said that he changed this into a conquistador proposal where he could make a complete effort to make a success of this group of paintings, such as the rest of the Child Protective Party, and it would be a good thing for him to do. But first, what? A senator can, in fact, accept any change in the woodwork in this regard as long as there is a penalty in this matter, is not kindly and obliged to submit a pactary proposal that assigns professional ministers to make sure that they have a complete approach to this problem rather than a mere penalties to the barriers that are so not further defined in the law, however in the paper of the bill. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u214	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the state's policy tournament for farms, section 414 on deck. 547. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers, in cooperation with marine and agricultural ministers, to shape the government's tenant policy for farms. Ministers submit their policy to the council in the form of a synonym no later than October 1, 2017. With this proposal, the secretary of finance and economics is assigned to shape government policy for farms. The development of recent years has been that more and more land has gone out of an apartment and has weakened much of the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy, and to ensure food production and equality to farm. During the past decade, there have been significant changes in rural land use, but the change that has become the most widespread is a large number of people whose job prospects are largely determined. The aim of this proposal is particularly that the State pursues a policy that ensures the possibility of starting farming. Natural protection and tourism development are also needed. Similarly, any type of land belonging to the State and therefore, which areas are better off owned by a private member. In 2013 the Environment and Resource Minister appointed a rural and sustainable land use group. The final report by the August 2015 workgroup shows that it is important to shape the government's land policy, how to use and care for it, including whether and what soils should be due to their State's special status, which may be sold and where to rent, and after what may be done, by what means. Many lands owned by the State have a unique position on nature, history, and culture, but most farms and land are under the supervision of the institutions of the State or its candidates who use them for hire. According to the Law of the Earth, No. 81/2004, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs will administer government custody and enforce the laws for buying, selling, and other government arrangements. On the other hand, the law does not require that the Kingdom set a policy for its own earth. This makes it important to make up for many lands that are heading for disaster. It has been reported in the media that for some time it is almost impossible to buy government wealth or to obtain it. Transporters believe that it is normal for policy development to be consulted, e.g. with Iceland's Farmers, State Rentation, National Union and National Forest. V.E.G. President. Recently, though, discussions about the landings of foreigners have been quite recent but are not new. On April 17, 2013, the current Minister of Internal Affairs, Ögmundur Jónasson, set up a new directive for the purchase of foreigners with a legal home in the EEA area of property here. According to her, the EEA citizens were not allowed to buy land in Iceland unless they had a legitimate stay or function of the country. A few months later, the protocol was taken out of existence by a local Minister, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who did not consider this Regulation to be compatible with the commitments of the country because of the European Economics Convention. In January 2017, a so - called marine economist and agricultural minister ordered a group of workers to revise the laws and regulations of the trades of foreign citizens in Iceland. The staff is aimed at evaluating the limitations most likely to be considered in maintaining agricultural and agricultural habitats in the rural areas. In this regard, the maintenance of agricultural land is limited in Danish land laws and conditions set for foreign citizens'purchases. A number of contracts have been made for the market where renters live on earth. It is also common for soil to be rented for cunning and to be used by someone who lives on the adjacent soil. A house - to - house arrangement is essential for the start of a living earth; thus, deserts in general are not suitable for an apartment. V.E.G. President. Happily, many people are willing to make food for themselves and to engage in agriculture, to have and raise their children in a rural community, to build up the community, and to be fed, but, unfortunately, the trend has been that more and more soils have been removed. It has weakened very widely the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy and part of ensuring equality for the residence that we candidates are interested in. This may be indicated, for example, for the purposes of the application procedure. in what point did Skaftáhrepp's point in a story in RUS that appeared on the website during the days. It shows that the Kingdom took many years to shape a government policy. Good farms were destroyed because they were not advertised. The Odense calls for policy on the part of the state on these issues. The situation is bad in the Thomson Jell, one of the participants in the co-work project Freightals built. Much is involved in rural development, which is largely based on agriculture and tourism. In the Swamp of Thomson, many of the good soils are in the average country, most of which have become desolate. Sadly, these are not the only excerpts to be gleaned. I would also like to call attention to the situation in the northeastern country. In fact, there were cases where farmers lived longer than they planned to protect the earth from going into the field. It costs a lot if there is no farming, farms go out, and new farms need to be developed. It does not have the same methods of selling farms and land for farming. V.E.G. President. A small thing that has been done to sell and place these earths in an apartment and advertise them. Good soils have simply been dropped because of inactivity on the part of the State. That's what needs to be changed. This arrangement of interpretation makes this arrangement a progressive step toward bringing it matters for the better. As the report shows, many of the estates owned by the State have become a special property in nature, history, and culture. The strategy needs to take into account how to use these soils, how they should be taken care of. It needs to be a guide so that we can identify what soil should belong to its special status in the State, who can sell, and who can rent, and with what obligation. In this regard, I would like to mention recent sales at Vifils, but that was not part of the council. I'm asking you, where's the policy? Where did the request come from? What's the price? I would have thought it normal to wait and discuss at the council why they should be sold on earth. During the days, the answer to a written inquiry was made. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir to secretary of finance and economic affairs for the state. In answer to a question about government policy and whether a minister intends to have a re-evaluation of the state's geologic policy stated, with the permission of a president: In addition, a financial program for 2018-22022 of the state's property administration proposed at the General Assembly provides an objective of setting a clearer framework for the use of land, nature, and resources in the administrations of the state. In view of the increasing practicality of tourism, improved management of resource use on the state of the world is needed and to ensure visible and natural interest. This will increase the efficiency, efficiency, transparency and knowledge of the state's real estate, land and resources. It is also important that the future structure of the government's ownership of property, land, and farm earth will be fully developed and given full details to the government's specific ownership policies. 43. g. European Environment Agency (UNEP) has been appointed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. In response to a minister's question about whether he intends to evaluate the pros and cons of the Kingdom -wide planning system again, it is testified to the design of land - and - land policies. A team is evaluating the pros and cons of putting government guards in an apartment. Iceland's High School Economic Institute is making a special analysis of the assessment of the labour system, providing an assessment of the state of the system and practicality. The movers call for where this work is, since the matter is urgent. The fact that the state's budget has about 450 land, most of which are new to agriculture, gives rise to opportunities to build up and support European agriculture, which has great knowledge and value. In a healthy stock and knowledge of farmers in the land V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna extend my case. In this matter, there is an addition to the rest of the Parliamentary Congress, i.e. The last of them. Some of the people: Arnardóttir Arnardótttir, Harðardóttir Hardirdótttir, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddótttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, and Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson. I suggest that after this discussion, the case will be referred to the job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u215	Madam President. I've been very interested in this case, like why. The manager of the case, and has a very thorough inquiry to the marine economist and agri-gri-grit on the surface of the land owned by the state. I can take my mind to what was presented here. In effect, this is a suggestion. Like many people, I've been wondering how many worlds are getting out of an apartment, how much is advertised, and then you have to wonder why it's not advertised, because the lack of policy appears to be complete after this was transferred to the Ministry of finance. It's at least here. Three years, reminds me, since those cases went over, and then nothing has happened. It is totally unacceptable that we see land literally go to ruin just because the Ministry of finance draws its feet to work. There are even people who want to settle there but who do not have the opportunity to do so because there is not yet some particular policy yet to be determined by the Ministry of finance. Of course, you should look to the value of earth's laws. As long as nothing else has been decided, I think we shall abide by the laws of the earth. It stipulates that the advertisement should be advertised. There are many things underneath that haven't been specifically discussed, things like mountain soil, and other things where the earth has gone out of a flat. The government's going to make sure that human beings do it, etc.? There's a lot of stuff under there. If you think about it, we're in a bit of a circle. It's not that many years since we were faced with big business, owned by the bishops, church members, and so forth, we carried the ground, and the farmer had to own something under them. There must be something we want to see continue to play the key role of the self - worth farmer. When the camps were given at the time, perhaps this made it possible for everyone, or most, to have a land to settle on and cultivate it. Of course, family preparation was what was here. I think it was just a success. I don't quite see why we don't want to promote it, because it's not being done on account of this government if she doesn't take it very seriously and does something. I think we need, both because we have the agricultural laws and a lot of things going on in this sector, to follow what much of the country has said, that we want to have good and good products, we want to watch the nature of the country, etc. You see, when the busulfan is distributed, there are grounds for cultivating the land, protecting it, and using it in a sustainable way. There are communities below large areas. If there are many holes in large areas, it means that these gradually fade out or that some buy out the areas, as these have been traced, instead of cultivating the land, mind the quality, the healing, as well as the breeding of good products. I feel very short since we were faced with big business buying up whole areas, different from what we're standing before now when foreign people are buying them up. Then they were buying the produce, buying the lands and the land, and even what was going to happen. People had become a hired hand again in some places, as they may have been back in the day. I think we should rather consider doing what the Northern Nations have done. Their legislation has defined landowners' requirements, both for housing conditions and the management of the resource. I repeat, once again, that while there is no other policy but the Earth law, I feel that they need to be followed. We here at the council may not have had enough money to charge the Minister why they don't obey that law. Me and what. A prominent speaker is just an example from our district, where people want to quit farming and have someone to take over, but they are not permitted because of this lack of policy. I think it's something we need to kick ass. Of course, it is a tragedy if we face the possibility that we may become hired men in our own country when foreign residents have already purchased territory, as we can see in the east, in the wilderness, and even are falling from more north in a pit of Goat Bank. And others have been bought up a lot of land by one person. There must be something you're gonna do with this. At least I'm not so blue that I buy it that it's only because people really care about our country. I think it's at least... very special though I understand it well because our country is beautiful and good for breeding and other such, that some people want to invest. But because humans care about the land, I think it's a slim idea. These are usually land where there is some rich right to hunt or to other uses underneath, so I don't think that's what's on. I hope I find answers to these questions soon enough. In fact, I assume there are 11 questions that I'm sending, and these are extensive and they require the Minister to answer exactly what government policy is, that it is not only in the hands of the Ministry of finance to decide. I think agri-environmental ministers must have something to say about their agricultural policies and including farms because there are so many things under there, not just these shops, but so many other things about the uses as outlined here in order to support wholesome farming, farming that ensures us as a nation of wholesome products, and that we can be self-saturated. We will not be rescued as a nation for food production if this is what has been done in recent years. I think it's very dangerous. I think people are very anxious to make this happen, not to intervene. Former Secretary of State, my ass. paritaprevir For example, when Ögmundur the son of Jónasson asked about the purchases in the mountains, he was now faced with opposition. What's happening? It's breaking. For example, a good deal of money has been sold from that country. I think we need to be tougher here at the council, even though there aren't many days left, to push a minister and see if she doesn't agree with us that it can't wait for so long as it's really been. We also need to know why the Ministry of finance has drawn this up for three years, what does it really stop? Is there a disagreement on what this is supposed to be, or what is it? There's a new minister in that chair now. So it would be interesting to know whether he feels the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u216	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the rights and duties of the state's employees, changes that would eliminate the obligation to the EEA Civil Rights when it comes to government work. That the bill consists of a group of reveries in line with the direction published on the category's homepage in a section on the affairs of immigrants and refugees. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ People outside the EEA have a better way to work and live. Here we are trying to fulfill that promise by opening more into the workforce, i.e. The official labour market. The bill's short. 1st par. That's what it sounds like, by permission of the President: ◯4. a number. 1.mg. Section 6. The law will pass away. I'm gonna go over this 6. Article 6 of which the president's permission would help the people to understand the context. Six. these laws are addressed on universal requirements for a job order or advice. First, it is 18 years of age, though with some exceptions in cleaning ups, posting work, and the like. Second, it's jurisdiction. Third, it is essential health. Fourth, and I'm going to read the whole saying: ◯4. Icelandic Civil Rights. However, citizens from other countries can be hired by the European Economic Area or Member States of the European Free Trade Association or move countries to work on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced in other foreign citizens, if specifically indicated. The 5th issue discusses the general education and the special education required for that work. sixth, if we discuss financial guardianship in the case of a business that brings financial gain. So we suggest that the requirement for the citizenship fall away but that the requirements for age, legislation, health, education, and financial rights remain unchanged. I'm going to go to this shipping address to go over the history of this legislation in Iceland. Then I'm going to compare ourselves with other countries, so I'm going to argue that we should do this and finally ask myself lightly what this effect will and will not have. You can say that the first edition of this article in any form is contained in the King's Letter, dated April 8, 1844, of which they are applying for office in Iceland. I'm not going to read words right from this letter, a respectable president, because it was a violation of Congress, and this letter is about the Icelandic skills of government officials in Iceland, of course, in Danish. In a casual translation, the text is like this: It is our highest will that anyone who gets hired in our country, Iceland, have the knowledge of the language that he can at least understand the natives and that they can understand him. There could not be required to demand an Icelandic citizen, although Iceland did not have a sovereign state, but such regulations allowed the President to access our constitution and in the law on the rights and duties of the servants of the state of 1954 are the following requirements that apply to all the employees, not just the officials, and so I read it, with the permission of the President, it sounded at that time, one of the requirements of the Icelandic citizen: However, this law can be taken into account, if it can be considered particularly desirable to get a foreign citizen to carry out his business temporarily, but it can be reserved only after he has found himself in the slang citizen's rights. There was a big change in the measure of the EEA contract, and thereafter the law sounded like this, with the permission of the president: It's a Civil Civil Right. However, Ministers may authorize that citizens of other European economic countries will be hired to operate on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced if it can be considered particularly desirable to get a foreign citizen to carry out temporary work. The switch with the EEA agreement was that a minister could authorize EEA citizens to get public employment. Then it continued to be the first law to recruit others temporarily if it was particularly desirable. Another big step was followed by a new law, which is what it now sounds like: It's a Civil Civil Right. However, citizens from other countries can be hired by the European Economic Area or Member States of the European Free Trade Association or move countries to work on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced in other foreign citizens, if specifically indicated. So this law required that ministers be dismissed from the EEA and no longer required temporary recruitment of citizens from the Third Reich. The procedure today, as far as I know, and I've checked the country's two largest public employment positions, Iceland's University and Land Hospital, is that it is not really looking for a special license each time, but I've evaluated it whether it is particularly on the basis of the institution, that is simply an assessment. And in view of advertising in a work square, it seems that there is an absolute exception to this requirement. When I first prepared this case, one advertisement was inside, and it was about learning status in the Ministry of State. Neither educational, academic, or healthcare professional requirements appear to be effective, nor are other professional requirements, e.g. A requirement for Icelandic nursing permits, simply enough, so in many cases the official market is already in place where we want to go on this bill. It should be noted that the bill is not changing the arrangement for officials, e.g. Justices, policemen, prosecutors, Ministry or government officials. Most countries set such rules when it comes to those who have official authority but are far less likely to have such value on all jobs; teachers, doctors, nurses, specialists, or others who work for the State. In all parts of the North countries, requirements for public employment have been dropped. Such rules do not apply in the Netherlands, Canada, the United States, Britain, or Ireland. In many places, the causes are exceptions, Iceland is one example, Germany is different, and in some places, e.g. In France, Turkey, or Poland, the legal requirement for civil rights is quite direct. We're lying in the middle of nowhere, but we'd like Iceland to be as free as our neighboring countries. It is our opinion that these rules can be effective in preventing the flexibility of the public labour market. Despite the fact that today's project is actually turning to what we wanted the law to be, it could turn back without specific adjustment. In addition, the rules can discourage qualified people who would naturally apply because people may read laws and think that they can only get a job in exceptional circumstances, perhaps they will not apply. And, as mentioned earlier, if I take special training and medical work for them, most of the public jobs are necessary, so it needs some kind of specialized education or special license, but we do not think that there is any particular reason to rule out people who have, for example, an individual. Been here for five or six years, hasn't an Icelandic citizen's right or for some reason he doesn't want it. This condition would bring our legislation to the same outlook as the one known in the states of the North. The discontinuation of this condition would also improve our score in various international comparisons. In that case, I specifically mention the MIPX scale, which measures how hostile countries are to immigrants. Finally, this would send a proper message that we demand that a private company be nondiscriminate. Suppose that a store on the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania would advertise: People wish to work. Only Icelanders or Europeans can be considered. Some forms feel that it's highly inappropriate and beat a bad tone, but the State will do it in the law and get away with it. No, there are no such rules in the general labour market, there are general rules for employment and living permits simply enough. We see no reason for the State to insist more than that, but it would, of course, be able to set on objective issues such as English, etc. Today, there are three ways to be at the job market. One of them is the public labour market, the common, private labour market, and then human beings can be independent. Of these, the fact is that the exclusive market is the most open market in this respect, where there are no special fees for civil rights when men are given employment permits. We are still too closed when it comes to people's right to work independently. In fact, if people are not on an untimely visa, which is bad and that I would like to revise, it is strictly forbidden to pay their dues, but it is not part of this law code. What is part of it is simply to make our legislation as liberal as seen in our neighboring countries and to eliminate this requirement that in some respects is no longer widely followed. As mentioned earlier, in preparation for this matter, the importance of this provision was carefully examined at the largest government - trained workplace in the country, the Land Hospital, and the University of Iceland. Since these places seem to have considerable resources from all over the world, the law does not seem to get much out of them. Then some might use it as a reason why we need to change, but I would like to emphasize that the law should accurately describe the conditions we live in, and we should also be properly evaluated in international values for what we want to be; a land that is open to all, a land of opportunity, if we use them. A respectable president. I'm ordering the bill to go. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u217	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an interesting review of the history of this case and the result of his writing this bill. I'd like to express a definite support for that. I think it's very important that we decommission all forms of discrimination from Icelandic law and there's no sound evidence that we will make civil rights for some kind of condition for people to work for the government. In fact, I consider it a clean and complete discrimination in the laws that we should generally work against in all our legislation where it conflicts with a constitution, as I've been told about today. That's why I'd like to thank you. A senator for putting the matter in order to declare that he has at least one person. My support, if not more of it. Senators on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u218	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to fix the panel. 549, about changing the law on the Icelandic loan Fund, No. 21/1992 with subsequent changes, and with regard to reimbursement and down payment of loans. The bill of the same material has been submitted repeatedly during recent meetings, first of course. paritaprevir Lilja Mósesdóttir. and in the Council of 139th, and twice afterwards, and then by reason of it. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, Iglived the daughter of Ingadóttir, three times, last at the Council of 145th. The couriers of this bill, as well as the layman, are sharp. Councilmen of the Union, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Logi Einarsson. The history of public study aids in Iceland can be traced back to 1911 99912 when Iceland's University was founded. During the early years, it was a low scholarship given to the state by no great resources, but since 1928 it was starting to pass through the student loans at the University of Iceland. In 1952, the University of Iceland's student council proposed a request to the government for a financial donation to the loan fund. This request was made with the creation of a new student loan. The establishment of the new fund was set up by a law that ensured the administration of government. With law No. 52/1961 was set up by the Icelandic student loan. In 1976 there were still new laws on student loans and scholarships, No. 57/1976. The Bible's Viewpoint Is God's Way of Life, No. 72/1982. The Law included two basic changes in student loans. The first included a student loan from 85% of the additional amount needed to 100% in several steps. The second turned to the calculation of student loans with the goal of reimbursement from 66% to 88%. With law No. 21/1992, of Icelandic students' loan Fund, were making radical changes, which included the following: aimed at saying that loan time was no longer limited to a set number of years, which was 40 years old, but the loans did not fall down and should be paid off completely. The changes discussed in this bill are contained in four articles, reaching 6. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. and 1 1 1. track No. 21/1992. First of all, we're suggested at 7 mg. Section 6. The law shall be added three new proverbs, saying, The responsibility of a responsible man falls when he reaches 67 years of age. However, if within three almanac years before that year a responsible responsible man is nearly 67 years old, he is permitted to cancel and cancel the amount of responsibility left over. As a result of the death of a responsible person, the loans he has borrowed from a borrower fall down. Second, a 3rd paragraph is suggested. 7. The word of the law goes like this: A student loan should be paid at 8:00. until the debt is fully paid or the borrower falls away. However, due to long-term illness, disability, or disability, debt should be permitted to cancel the posts of a bond, in part or in all. The secretary must set up a regulations for the further implementation and conditions of such drains. Then a student's loan should always fail in the year when a debtor is nearly 67 years old, when he is fully behind the fund and has borrowed his loan by the age of 54. However, if divorce arose within three almanachs years before that year, a debtor is nearly 67 years old, it is permitted to cancel and cancel his remaining debt. Third, Article 11. The word of the law goes like this: In case of significant remuneration of the student loan, the fund's management should be permitted to borrow all the loans, as per Article 3. 7. Fourth, it is assumed that these laws will already be obtained. An interim bill is included in this bill that creditors, who have already reached 67 years of age, in the implementation of these laws, should receive the cutdown of their student loans, as their status is in validation. An article with a bill involved the use of key elements, reasoning support, and explanations. The bill suggests the adjustment of the arrangements for reimbursement of student loans under law No. 21/1992 on the Icelandic loan fund, and suggested that resources for specific peripheral cases be legalized for student loans. The principle that a student's loan should be paid until the debt is fully paid or until the time of borrowing is up to the point of failure is suggested. The loan fund has been working since the loss of bonds when the borrower falls away, but with this bill, that rule is legalized. Exceptions from the above principle are then assumed in a way that in certain cases, student loans will be permitted in part or in whole before the loan is fully paid. This does not refer to a crippling or procrastination of the annual payments, as discussed in Article 8. The law of the law, it is a matter of general evasion or description on the loans behind student loans. On the other hand, the cases involved are the cases of a long - term illness, disability, or extreme disability affecting his long - term spending ability, and the cases where a student's loan has reached the age of 67 without having fully paid off his student's loan. The bill suggests that the death of a responsible man will be the result of the declaration of responsibility he has made. According to information provided by the Icelandic loan fund, in May 2016, 30 loans were borrowed, where heirs or estates paid from student loans. The information we have received from the fund is a case where people have accepted responsibility and have agreed to negotiate. Other sources of loans are not kept in mind, since heirs or estates are payers. If this bill is legal, there will be a great improvement in the interest of student loans. The principle of the bill applies only to those who are still in debt at the start of their 67 - year - old years. While those who have paid back a loan for that time may not have benefited from this change, provisional cases involving a debt of over 67 years of age are still paying off their student loans. Since the annual reimbursement of student loans is determined by the individual's total income, it may be that a higher proportion of individuals paid most or all of their loans. Hence, the change the bill represents primarily those who have been studying as well as those who have been in studies for a long time. Until 1982, student loans reimbursed at a maximum of 20 years. That period was doubled for 40 years by law No. 72/1982, and by law No. 21/1992 became an unlimited loan time, and the loans were to be paid to the full, but they fail at the very end of the loan, as listed above. Here, the trend has become that academic debt goes further and further beyond the age of one's age. In connection with a panel survey by 2013, the BHM status of its members was examined by the Icelandic Board of Students. There were some interesting findings, including the results. that women pay their loans more slowly than men end their wages in general lower and reimbursed. Money loans, on the other hand, are similar for both sexes. The study's comments suggest that 22% of respondents will still have to pay off student loans when retirement is reached. This bill suggests that student loans die at 67 years of age, allowing them to apply for pension and related payments to the government's insurance agency. A respectable president. I've concluded my case, and I expect this bill to get a positive coverage in the General and Education Committee and then go to the 2nd. and 3rd... and eventually receive confirmation of the Generals as a law beyond careful concierge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u219	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. This is for the transfer. But I would like to ask him if he feels that he is going far enough, if he could not consider taking even further and removing the responsibilities that have been formed, since responsible men have now been excluded. Why not remove responsible men over your system, instead of letting them out at the age of 67, would it not be wise for the State to take out responsible men if we don't need them anymore? Would be a what? A senator would open the door if there was a decision made by the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u220	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. As mentioned above, this bill has not been an easy source for the council. It is not being moved for the first time but has been tried repeatedly in this regard. Say that it is normal for responsibilities to be coordinated in this case. There are now older loans with responsible men, but it will be interesting to see what treatment the bill receives. I'm personally very open to the agreement. But we all know that the arrangements of student loans and study aid have developed in a different way here than in any other country in the North. As mentioned in my talk, individuals from their student loans pay much longer for the rest of their lives here and will not last many of their lives to do so. It continues to increase as a result of a longer study period. But I think it's a positive one. It's a good one.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u221	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, but the transporters are, as well as here, okay? The members of Hana Katrín Friðriksson, Elínardóttir Sól Sól Sól Elinardóttir and Pawel Bartoszek. It is serious: Last year, 169 people visited an emergency hospital because of the rape, but there have never been more. In 2015, 145 people turned to the emergency room. In spite of this, the number of police rape charges has not increased. There was an increase of 58 between 2015 and 2016 in rape cases that came on the Strategies Table. For example, in a recent conversation with the Morning Press, a speaking woman of Horsina said that it was near to conclude that a rape epidemic had taken place. Twenty-seven drug victims were reported to Stepamoth 2016, and 13 were reported in 2015. 29 cohort slaves were reported to the 2016 Faramoth and 11 in 2015. Sexual violence and rape are social ills that need to be controlled as far as possible with education, mental changes, and necessary legal adjustments. A bill of what is recommended here is effort in that direction. The bill means that there will be a decline in the definition of rape by the method of action. Instead, there will be consent, in other words, that one who has intercourse or other sexual practices with another without his consent is guilty of rape. Thus there is a lack of consent to collaboration or to other sexual partners, which defines rape. A agreement for intercourse or other sexual practices must have been made voluntarily. Current 1 mg. 194. gr. a general penal law begins with this statement, with the permission of a president: ▪ Anyone having intercourse or other sexual relations with a person by resorting to violence, threats, or other forms of illegal neglect is guilty of rape... Our bill assumes to replace these initials at 1 mg. 194. gr. and replace: Anyone who has intercourse or other sexual acts with a man without his consent is guilty of rape... In addition, there will be a further addition to the provision: Acceptation is required if expressed voluntarily. Acceptance is not available if it is obtained by violence, threats, or other illegal pressures, or by means of deception or the practical error of the individual's circumstances. It should be noted that a change of 2 mg is not considered to be a reason. 194. gr. general penalties, which also state that it is a rape and protected from the same punishment as prescribed in 1st. taking advantage of a mental disorder or other spiritual disability in order to communicate with him or with other sexual practices, or in other ways he cannot resist an action or understand its significance, let alone consent to it. Madam President. The sexual abuse of the law of law is common in all to sexual relations and is intended to protect freedom in that area. The interests of those to be protected are primarily the privacy of the individual, i.e. sexual freedom and self - determination rights regarding sex, body, and emotional life. Thus, each individual has the freedom to decide to have intercourse or other sexual practices and also the right to refuse involvement in sexual activities. It is necessary to define rape based on lack of consent in order to provide adequate rights for sexual freedom. It is known that in all cases rapists are not able to resist, e.g. because they freeze or are paralyzed by fear. Research has revealed that this reaction is common, and doing so does not require much physical force to accomplish its will. In a similar way, it is not uncommon for those with physical injuries to suffer after rape. It's coming even. published by Jehovah's Witnesses in 2013. The report covers all the rape issues that the police had in 2008 and 2009. The report reports that the frequent reactions or oppositions of offenses were often marked by the fact that most of the cases were women and girls, in most cases, protested to bacteria. When individuals ignored their objections, their reaction was marked by fear and/or shock and followed by no physical resistance. Thus, according to the report, physical violence was not particularly common in the case of rape. For instance, serious physical injuries were very rare. All of us know a discussion of sexual abuse, how few they find to the police, that the reality is that the burden of evidence is heavy and, unfortunately, it seems, is widespread in our society. Clearly, the change in definition of rape to general penal law does not change the fact that the level of evidence in sexual crime will always be difficult. So this new definition of rape is certainly no magic solution. On the other hand, this changed definition is designed to contribute to a strong change in attitude toward the offense. If rape is defined due to lack of consent, as the bill suggests, the emphasis on approval will be increased by investigation and the application of rape. At the same time, such definitions will mean that the importance of sexual freedom is made much higher than before, and even may result in increased education, as well as awareness of the importance of consent for sexual activity. This bill's fliers emphasize the general warning effect of such a law. It is likely that individuals will become more aware of the importance of consent is always needed for sexual activity. Then there is a natural legal approach to the implementation of the penalty law, where the emphasis on violence and threats of bacteria and the sea has been directed toward the protection of sexual freedom, i.e. whether or not the person agreed to engage in sexual activity. Taking into account the increased knowledge of the nature of rape and the reality of the wrongs, it is the time for those moving to rape to be defined by agreement with self - determination, immunity, and the freedom of the individual. Madam President. The sex violation of the general penal law was reviewed in its entirety by law No. 61/2007. The review of these changes indicates that the current principles of the sexual crime phase had been criticized, including some of them, were found to be valid. that they did not provide sufficient right - to - face protection, as well as a view that perhaps an old and out - of - date view of women might have been concealed in the law. It has been about a decade since the scenes of the sexual crime were last revised. Transporters believe that once again it is time to consider reevaluating the rape and that it will be modern and reflect the interests they seek to protect. In spite of improved sexual abuse within the justice system, it is important that the regulations of the sex crime phases of penalties and the implementation of these measures be reimbursed in continuous review. In recent years, there have been increasing discussions of sexual violence in this country, and large numbers of women and girls have gone forward, including some of them. on the scene of community media, and reported cases of sexual abuse, stressing that such violence and its major problems will no longer be ignored. When discussing sexual violence and its preemptive activity, it has also been emphasized to increase the understanding of young people of the bounds between sex and violence as well as to give responsibility for such violence to the doer. What a fine example of this is the short picture of yes! Then there have been cases of sex crimes and cases of rape within the justice system that stirred up reactions and protests in society. For discussion of the treatment of sexual fractures within the justice system and the results of individual judicial cases, it can be seen that, on an increased scale, the emphasis is to emphasize the lack of consent to the definition of rape. The definition of rape based on the lack of consenting intercourse or other sexual intercourse is neither broader nor less ambiguous than the definition established by law No. 61/2007. By the way to which this is applied, i.e. To define what is involved in consent, there is a necessary requirement for the clearness of penalties to be met fully and clearly. The requirement for proof will still be in the same bill. Hence, there is no reverse evidence here. Iceland has validated international agreements that have an important value in protecting against sexual abuse and its treatment. In addition, monitoring committees have the contracts. comment on the treatment of sexual fractures within the justice system. In this regard, there is a United Nations Convention on Discrimination With Women from 1979 and the United Nations Convention on Child Rights in 1989. Sexual immorality and its protection have also been discussed at the European Council. It is mainly a European Convention and a case for the European Court of Human Rights. In the court's court of justice of December 4, 2003, the M.C. Against Bulgaria, it was thought that the Bulgarian state had violated its positive obligations according to Article 3. and 8th pars. The Convention of Human Rights by not ensuring that national law in Bulgaria and its implementation provided sufficient protection from rape and sexual abuse. The Court felt that it would be considered a positive obligation to Member States on the basis of Article 3 and 8. The Convention of Human Rights required that sexual misconduct be accused and punished, including cases where tolerance did not provide effective resistance to the offense. Iceland has also signed the European Council's agreement on prevention and the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The most frequent agreement called the Istanbul Convention was made in 2011 and went into effect in 2014. Iceland signed immediately in 2011, but unfortunately it is not one of the 22 countries that have already confirmed it. The contract puts emphasis on the matter of rape as to whether consent was in place rather than on the procedure used to perform the rape. Law code differs somewhat in terms of the definition of rape. In the north and in Germany, it is known that there are procedures or circumstances in the law of sexual misconduct, i.e. to define rape from violence, threats, or abuse. However, the opposite is true in the case of an angel's Saxony, i.e. It is common to define rape from the term consent. In the following changes, the main emphasis is on whether intercourse or sexual relations were performed with the approval and will of the participants. In order to meet the requirements for the clearness of the penalties, there is also a closer definition of when approval is established and when it is not. Acceptation is required if expressed voluntarily. On the other hand, consent does not seem to be in the case of violence, threats, or other illegal compulsions, or by resorting to deception or application of a person's error in the situation. By the bill design, there was also a difference. looked to a recent report by the Swedish government on the increased protection of sexual freedom. The bill of rape is defined by a motion indicated by the adjustment of the Swedish penal code of rape. With regard to the term "consequences" in Article 1. The bill is clear that consent to convergence or other sexual practices must be expressed in words or other irreversibly expressions. This means that consent must be made or that active participation in a certain ceremony will be interpreted as approval by another person or another. No participant protests or resistance to sexual activity will be required. At that time, complete inactivity cannot be interpreted as a willingness to participate. From sexual freedom, it is normal for a person to engage in sexual activity at any time to change his mind about his involvement. Such communication must be expressed by word or other expression so that it can be assumed that another or another participants will be affected. It is not advisable to define too accurately what form of consent should be expressed. There is a danger that legislation that calls for accurate communication conditions will not be in harmony with the actual nature of human relationships. approval is also not expected if it is obtained by deception or by applying the patient's error in the situation. It should be emphasized that despite the suggestion of a change in 1.mg. 194. gr. general penalties are not suggested to alter mental conditions of rape. This will continue to be determined in terms of 1 mg. 194. Dig, like 18 cremation. a general penal law. It shows that an action punishable by punishment in the penal code is not criminal unless the action is deliberately performed or unintentionally. Therefore, for impunity, only a specific legal authority should be punished. Such a warrant is not recommended in 1st. 194. gr. So rape will not be a punishment unless it is deliberately committed. Madam President. The bill is a factor in changing the attitudes that ancient fathers'empires have created and are still dominant, or exhalable, in many places. By means of the bill, the man - made viewpoints reflected in many places that, under certain circumstances, a man has almost right to have sex with a woman. In this regard, the view that certain conduct or dress of women are almost a provocation or an offer of sex that men cannot resist. Then there is the outlook that when a person is in a relationship, whether in a marriage or outside, he or she breaks down some form of sexual freedom and self - determination when it comes to sex. Presumption and subspecies of women further contribute to the view of women as sexes, which in some way merely satisfy the male need for sex. Madam President. It's our duty. Councilmen that the law is fair and firm against archeological views That is certainly true in this subject, and for that, this bill is submitted. Transporters hope in a careful coverage of what they're talking about. The General and Education Committee following this discussion and at the moment. A body of Congress is united in making it a success so that it becomes a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u222	Madam President. Thank you. A traveler for his history. I think this case is worth all the attention. I'm going to take a closer look, and I'm going to take part in discussions about it both in the General and Education Committee as well as in the 2nd. when I have taken a better time to find out exactly what that means. But I think there's a reason to ask. A senator about one thing, i.e. the final sentence in the article as a dog. A senator proposes, i.e. 1st par. The bill, which will be presented by the President's permission: To violence, it is considered a detriment by incarceration, medicinal products, or other similar means. I think this is a slightly strange definition of violence. I think I understand where you're going with this definition, but on the other hand, it doesn't seem completely in line with what comes first in the bill, which says, with the permission of a president: ▪ A covenant is not available if it is given by violence, threats, or other forms of illegal necessity, or by means of deception or the application of an error in the individual's circumstances. So I think it's an occasion to ask why. A senator whether there is any special reason for this exact wording on the definition of violence. Could be more detailed in explaining this law, e.g. by adding the words ◯ including, or to just explaining that this is not a complete list of what is considered to be violence?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-16-66.u223	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think she's worth a lot of attention to me. I think it's more than likely to consider whether this expression is pressing. Of course, the thought is that keeping people locked up and giving them drugs may involve violence, for it is in a comparable way at the end of this article. I'm willing to discuss it, or the committee will see if there's any reason to change it. Of course, the idea is that violence has many forms.
