ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. We're out of Suðvest. "Harðardóttir Hardydó, "that she can't attend next week. So on February 20, the World Council took up residence as a guardian for Willum Þór Þórsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Borist has a letter from the fourth. That's the north side. "Negi Njáll's Friðbertsson, " says David, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So on February 17 he took up residence at the General Assembly as his deputy for Santa's daughter Sveinsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u2	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 90, about the man-selling and human-management strategy, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Three letters have been sent from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs where you request an invitation to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 117, about the real estate of the Keflavour Airport, Kadeco, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. You will also request every time to give a written query response. 104, on pay expenses and the number of employees, from Óli Björn Kárason. At last, request is made to provide a written query response. 94, about surveillance agencies, from Óli Björn Kárason. Borist has received a letter from the Environment and Resource Ministry where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 118, about the emissions of carbon gases from energy - rich industry and the Icelandic flying fleet, from Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Borist has received a letter from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 97, about surveillance agencies, from Óli Björn Kárason. Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 109, on the follow-up to the council resolution No. 45/145, for the support of plans and discussions on international bans on the manufacture and use of automatic and self - induced war machines, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u3	By letter, dated February 8th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Conferences on the reports of the National Accounting Research, the air quality in Iceland, the environment and health of the special prosecutors and the Bank's holdings. 2010 constituted a '2016'. It has also been requested by the president by letter, dated February 8, to the budgetary committee, as per Article 5 of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, on the reports of Our Reexamination, on review of state accounts for 2015, and on the implementation of budgets in January to June 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u4	Madam President. I would like to thank you for a pleasant trip to the Southland last week, but I still wanted to focus on the fact that tomorrow's schedule is not in place and that there is no schedule for the rest of the week. It is, like so often before, very difficult to prepare for the week if there is no schedule. It would be very pleasant to have a regular schedule throughout the week.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u5	The president would like to inform us that the week's program is conducted at a meeting of the presidents with the president. That meeting was this morning. They try to promote how each week's program will remain within reach.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, social and equality minister, foreign minister, Environment and Resource Minister, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u7	A respectable president. I have an inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister. In the budget and soon before Christmas, the General Assembly agreed to the budget, there was an agreement between all the senators who went on to improve health, transportation, and other such projects. It was then found that due to the problems of the computer registration, the funds committees failed to enter the system properly, and when we agreed on a government copy, it was adopted with the advance approval of following the results of a travel and rejection committee. Now that we have come from a district week, we have experienced that there are a number of cases in these areas around the country that are not funded, even contract bound tasks, and are now upset. So my question is, please consider the highest. The prime minister, on the one hand, of the council, of the agreement, and of the advance that the last government put in charge of these budgets? Or is it to the council to see that the will and agreement of the budget board, the budget of the council here at the council, should be shifted to councils, institutions, even executives, and individual district managers? I do not believe that this is the case, so I would like to receive clear answers from the highest level. Prime Minister that what was approved here, in this Assembly Hall, is standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u8	A respectable president. It is certainly true that in the new laws on government finance, there are expected to be a legal arrangement and contributions to them, but more than that, in the hearings, they appear in a package. Such a copy was available to the council when the budget was approved. When the council thus discusses the subject, the main thought under the law is that they focus their attention on the big picture. But as is usual, expected ones can develop delicate tasks. That is exactly what happened during the budget work, although it took place under very special circumstances at the end of the last year, when people stressed that certain specific tasks were not to be seen in the publication of financing. When this is the case and the council adds funding to the topic fields, an updated copy of the accompanying copy of the accompanying box bearing a sign of who was in charge of that assignment. I expect those Prime Ministers to submit to the council's will on such matters. In the final analysis, however, there must be room for practical handling, as shown by the law, to fill in the gaps and to take into account circumstances that at times may develop from what had been accomplished at the end of the budget work. I'm not exactly aware of this particular assignment. However, this point provides a basis for us to apply it after the council will act. This does not change the fact that we may always be looking at the big picture and having deep discussions about it in the future when the budget is on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u9	A respectable president. I would have wished it was the highest. A prime minister would have been more clear in answering, for the result of leaving this unsolved is exactly what the highest. The prime minister pointed out that we here at the council need to start calling each Prime Minister into each committee and following the fact that what was agreed here is going to stand. The result of all of this is that the will that has been shown at the council for the past few years - and I agree with the highest. The prime minister who wants us to look more at the big movie, and the council, the budget board, and members of Congress are not supposed to be doing much in the details, but they always do. If trust between the Executive Director and the Council breaks down when it comes to such things, as it happened last year, financial support will be very difficult in the future. This is not just about us who are in a position of government, it is as much of a political body as it is for those in the government council that we are not out in the polls. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u10	A respectable president. I can say with what. This trust needs to be readily available, and there must be a common understanding of how these matters take place after the council has handled the suggestions. This is precisely expected in the law by assuming that the copy will be reassigned according to the political handling of the budget, and it is assumed that in a reimbursed follow-up the changes made by the council will be taken into account. Then the Ministerial Ministers must represent the comments here at the council when it comes to the implementation of the budget and how they have followed up the suggestions presented in the accompanying copy of events, but changes should be introduced to the council as well. In this particular case, it would be the secretary of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u11	Madam President. More than three months after the election, there is an amazing, unusual picture. If the MMR survey has been conducted since yesterday, the management groups have lost about 30%, and the management is only supported by a third of the voters 40 days after it began. The last Gallup survey is so much blacker. Only one quarter of the population supports the government, the most lucrative men. A recent MMR survey also asks whether an Icelandic community is heading in the right direction. Those concerned about economic and political corruption, poverty and social inadequacies, the maintenance of the health and welfare system are most likely to answer Iceland's lies. V.E.G. Therefore, the prime minister cannot handle the concern of most of Iceland's people as an emotional force, as he did in his recent policy debate. A minister has repeatedly dismissed the fact that he has hidden reports to influence the outcome of elections, and he has said that no material point was to such an effect. Why do I mention the reports in this context? Yes, because this presents a major concern for the factors in this report: How do we earn money and how do we deal with the goods? The second report showed how the wealthy of Iceland came to a safe haven, thus freeing the legitimate amount of money to share the consumption process, and the others showed how a part of the country enjoyed the so - called correction to a greater degree than others. So they say: The two reports focused on corruption, discrimination, and social inequities. That's why I must ask, "Divine's highest level. " The prime minister is concerned about the majority of the people, and if so, how will he react? If not, does he still feel that people's experiences are mementos or that any part of the nation is suffering from mental illness, as he was so tasteful in the CrydddI?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u12	A respectable president. I don't know where to start this conversation. I was referring to the loveliness of the country, and I was talking about the love of breaking up a social agreement and then turning it out as one wants. I don't really feel like chasing after it when it comes out of your mouth. However, polls - we can discuss polls at the Assembly Hall, perhaps a lengthy discussion material, and then just take them regularly, like three a month. Just under a year ago, Piratar had 40%, and now another category is measuring the largest in some surveys and still other categories in others. I don't know if the social talk is very helpful when you think about polls. In their numbers, as a matter of course. A member of the council agrees that they are not in the position of those who do not take sides or who feel that they are neither on hand nor opposed. When asked if I changed my mind about these reports, two or two weeks ago. I'd like to allow a senator to draw attention to the fact that there will be a special discussion about the subject later in life. A senator can make his mark. I also welcome the opportunity to discuss the effects of the correction, and I welcome the opportunity to present my viewpoints about the other matters. Hv. A senator can be very calm that I do not lose sleep over the level of polls. One of the referred enterprises measured my category below 22% three days before election, but we ended in 29%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u13	A respectable president. Of course, polls do not tell any truth, but they did not get the most out of it. A few years ago, a prime minister who demanded that a government then return the keys when measured by 32 or 33%. I ask: Will the prime minister give the keys back now? V.E.G. The prime minister has written down measures in housing, infrastructure, and so forth. Will he take serious concern over the majority of the nation, and how will they respond? Or does he think it's just a thought? And how will they respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u14	A respectable president. Perhaps we should take longer to discuss that government as a matter of course. A senator makes up this account, the members of the nation's agreements against Icesave, and they received 98% of the people against them. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] After that government had received 98% of the people in favor of him and had otherwise completely failed to build a home armored city and stand for nobility - yes, I felt that it should be abandoned. Actually, it wasn't approved here at the council Hall, but it just happened on the next occasion, which was during the election. Then they were completely rejected by the two groups, so memorable that they are included in the history books. Actually, it would be. A senator who is in charge of the United States may well remember that the fall just continued. Maybe because of a lawsuit like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u15	Fall is a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u16	A respectable president. It may not be right to claim that a person was delighted to see a new government covenant, yet there was one thing to rejoice over. One of them was the sentence in the collaboration of the Declaration, by permission of the President: A far - reaching sense of justice is an unbreakable right in a just and reasonable society. This was a pleasure, to us who are equalists and feminists in Icelandic politics and to think that there was evidence here that a paradox was involved in having equality and gender equality on the program. All government ministers support efforts to match the proportions of the sexes of HeForShe, but then they respond to the maximum. According to Minister of Justice, the increased relevance of gender in the order of a judge is not a success. It should be observed that in March 2016 the United Nations, with no more or less, directed to the Icelandic government last year to increase without delay the number of women in the Supreme Court and to the United Nations for the violation of all discrimination against women this recommendation to the Icelandic government, as it was also discussed in general what should be done better in Iceland. She specifically stressed the measures of action against women and the increase in women, including women. Police and Supreme Court. V.E.G. On March 15, 2016, with the permission of the same president, the president here said to the council: As regards equality and the role of women, e.g. in the Supreme Court, it has been clearly observed that the failure to increase the number of women in the Supreme Court is unacceptable. So in the days, the Minister of Justice says here: I don't know how many people are involved in this case, but I'm not worried about anything except that women are many in the class of judges. [...] I don't think there's any need to intervene with any specific action in this regard. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Isn't the Minister concerned about the gender proportions in the jurist system? If not, how does the Minister feel she can back up her stand in the light of the government declaration of cooperation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u17	A respectable president. It must be clear to all humans that at any court court, the three judges that will take place after the next year, it is of utmost importance that a suitable person be chosen there. Only in this discussion have I referred to a committee assigned to evaluate the qualifications of candidates for judging positions. This committee aims to look to the applicant's ability. A wide background is then being considered. I have mentioned, and I agree with the view that the highest qualified person is chosen at any given time. I cannot see how this view can be replaced by the view of increasing the number of individuals in the court on some viewpoints, such as The sex point. I ask them, " What viewpoint do men want to put in order by the order of judges? ' I can't better see, and that's my conviction, but the safety of the court is the best of the city, where a guard of the court's safety is, by looking out for the ability. I've also said that I'm not worried about the situation as it has become today that among the most qualified candidates at any given time, there are no women and men alike.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u18	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm not going to turn out of her words, but it's in the air, she's got the chance to correct it, that she thinks justice is put at risk by looking to gender purposes. Of course, I hope that's not her attitude. But I can no better understand from her words that sex has nothing to do with it. This was shown in an article by Ragnhildur Helgadóttir 2015 that she wrote on the basis of a 100 - year vote anniversary of women in Iceland, that it was important for women to make decisions at the highest level. It was important that there is a decent proportion of both men and women everywhere, and without any compromise on qualifications or quality requirements. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister and ask her to answer me in this: How will she apply herself to these objectives in the cooperative declaration that equality in the broad sense is an integral part of a just and reasonable society? How's the top? The Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen being their publisher of views and representing sex equal rights in the Board of Directors? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u19	A respectable president. I can accept being a publisher of these views, e.g. That I testify in the province, within the district courts, is now as good as the exchange between genders in the balance of judges. You have to look at it when men look to the Supreme Court. There are nine judges. They're supposed to be seven after next New Year's Eve. Of course, there has been a more balanced exchange between sexes in the Supreme Court than the aquifers now. I don't worry about it, and I think that in time, women will grow in this right. Nor do I worry that women will not apply for positions now advertised at the New National Court. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the selection committee I referred to, a selection committee commissioned to evaluate the qualifications of women and men, is now serving more women than men. But I am stressing that at the order of the judges, the main basis is academic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u20	Madam President. As noted in the news this morning, the National Association of Business Association and the National Association of Iceland are in danger; there is a week on course they have to see if the collective agreements are going to hold. Maybe this shouldn't have been a big surprise. It was clear in the last summer or in the fall, and an ASI issued a statement saying that the rise in the tens of those who hear under the board was not a failure to make peace. This was before the decision was made on a vote day, at least one month before, by a 44% increase in the salary of the senators, and earlier this year there was a 13% rise. It shouldn't have surprised a conquistador, and it should not have surprised a world of Congress that this would cause agitation, as it were. The heads of the classes called for a prime committee to try to find peace in the matter. Now the prime committee has failed to do that. I wrote to the Presidency Committee that it would not be likely that the Committee to Presidentship in 2006 would be in charge of pay for members of Congress while the other winning groups and this 70% at the labour market of the local labour agreement could now be solved in 2013. The members of Pirata have now provided a bill on which they offer all members of the Parliament that the salary of senators, ministers, and others under the council should be reduced and corrected so that they reflect the 2013 criteria to which other members of the labour market have to aim. The activities of industry, ASI, and many unions in Iceland have suggested that the Council has to intervene, and this is what the Council can do. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he supports that. He called for changes with other members of the clan, and I ask if he will support these changes as well. In the second speech, I would like to ask about other factors that are involved in fixing the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u21	A respectable president. I'm rather accustomed to review from this program on dress and grooming, working disputes, even individual groups. In many cases, one has been under oath for not completing collective agreements about tens of percent rise into the future for the individual classes of public employees. Then I've had an excellent experience talking about the decrease in pay of those under the board of dressers. It is the only group mentioned in this Hall of Congress that needs to reduce the terms. We did this by the end of 2005. In 2008 and 2009, we did this again when we cut down directly on all those who hear under the board and then frozen for quite a while. The Presidency Committee was making 150 points for members of Congress. K. loss of pay or equivalent to 150 of you. K. decrease in pay. It just happened a few days ago. We have become quite sterile in controlling and reducing the wages of those under the counsel, especially those in this council hall. I have also shared in cutting down the pension rights of those sitting in this council hall. But most of all, I find it difficult to deal with other members of Congress that there is not enough work to reduce the terms, since in itself I don't want to have anything to do with the votes of the senators. I don't like having to discuss who the voters should be or a minister, if that's what it's gonna be. I think it's right that the case should live with the law and hide the third party to cause it to smell. The discussion of whether the third member of today's Council, once named Kjara Court, of course, had to put aside the demands of the work market in his day, stood in its place, or did not - no doubt there will be a different view of that indefinitely. [[The president calls.]] And the reference point is selected on a convenient basis. I notice why. Senator's in the 2013 team.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u22	Mr. President. If we are just being reasonable, it is not without reason that our 2013 will do so, that is, at this point, 70% of bargains that are now in danger need to be aimed. Why, then, should members of Parliament not make the same decision? It's the best. Ministers that it is easy to go to these groups and say, You must accept this, but senators and other officials, and those with very high salary in the community don't have to do that? It's only fair, it's fair, and it's totally justified. The other is another case, if the highest. A minister has no intention of interveneing in this way if he does not want to intervene. The prime committee has taken hold of it and has been rising it all the time, and if we could be reasonable, it's not entirely true that we don't interfere with our own salary, we certainly do it by meddling in the terms. But if it's the highest. A minister does not approve of our intervention, on a fair basis with 2013 as a reference and that we are in partnership with other members of the community, especially now that 70% of the bargain agreements are in turmoil, and if we don't need a minister, what he's going to do, let us set a good example as the General of Congress can do, and if a minister doesn't want us to do it? [[The president calls.]] What is it as a labour market organization, the whole organization, that they say they lack to correct these collective agreements? [[The president calls.]] Housing is one thing. Perhaps a minister knows this and can tell us: " What will he do?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u23	A respectable president. What I did, along with the presidents of other political parties, was making a presentation to the Presidency Committee and urging work-related payments to be revised. That was in direct context with this discussion. The result is 150 points. K. loss of pay from elected agents. It is a clear step, it is undeniably possible to lower the terms of the people here because of the debate about the outcome of a decision board. It's just the way it is. What really stands out in the court. A candidate will be able to do what in the period since 2009-2013 when all those under the board received a 15% reward reduction and then, at the same time, as both the public and the public market had significant increases. No doubt there are small groups of people who developed less than these groups did. [[Up front.]] I drew attention to the fact that there was no need for advice and a decision so that doctors would take operating rooms as hostages. [[The president calls.]] Also, it did not take a advice or a decision to close a classroom for months. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I have no faith that there will be some fairness in this discussion, as the labour market model is today. [[The president calls.]] It is simply crushed. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u24	The president prays for quietness in the hall, so stewards and others use their part of the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u25	Mr. President. The British newspaper The Guardian reported on yesterday, Monday, that Britain's citizens had been left behind in Iceland as he moved to the United States on Thursday, February 16, the past. The man, a 25 - year - old math teacher, was following his high school students on a school trip. He was brought to a closer check on his passport, and then he went to a hotel without any explanation, found that his luggage was left behind, and then stayed on this land without any explanation by the Icelandic authorities for two days before the school he operates on booked him a flight back to Britain. The man's name is Juhel Miah, a Wales Muslim. According to The Guardian, he had legitimate passports and visas to the United States. The British Ministry of State has confirmed that this is known to Mr. Miah's case. Britain's embassy has its case in this country, and the U.S. embassy has been contacted by the British authorities, i.e. The U.S. embassy in Iceland. Those actions have been challenged by well - verse members of the United States. Now we hear passport control and police work under the Justice Department. So I direct my inquiry to her: What is the explanation of the action taken by the Icelandic government and directed toward the British citizen on his way to the United States? What is the reason why the government kept man in this country, and on what basis were they made decisions? What is the responsibility of the Icelandic government toward people treated like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u26	A respectable president. I cut this story down. I don't know, however, what's going on here. If I had known of this inquiry, I might have been digging about it. But the Ministry of Justice has received no explanation for this and has not been asked to do so, nor does it seem to me that it is necessarily a matter of government. But I guess that's being investigated, perhaps in some sort of cooperation with the State Department. In any case, it is under British government and their dealings with the U.S. State Ministry of State in Britain.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u27	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that the chief of justice here in the country doesn't know about it. But I would like to reiterate who is responsible for the police and passport control, who are under the highest pressure. Minister, have these actions with Mr. Juhel Miah. I know the highest. Minister of whether similar measures have taken against the citizens of other countries have taken place here. If so, does she want to tell us about it here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u28	A respectable president. As you can see, it's just being booked. I just have to admit that the case has not been entered by the Justice Department. I don't have any information about it. The U.S. government has no information on the decision of the United States on this British citizen. I hope so. A senator respects it as a pity that, as the case holds, it's not directly in the Ministry, at least. not yet. Of course, it's normal, and I'm sure it's not that both my ministry and the ministry are looking into this matter and keeping an eye on it. Of course, we're not going to have any further information on me or my Department to inform us of the occurrences like this if they get more frequent on Icelandic soil.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u29	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss the report presented at the council this January, a financial and economic report on the detriment of security loans. This is a report I and eight other members of the Parliament requested on October 15, 2015, which was submitted 19 months later. It is such an independent subject to discuss how long it began to put together these eight pages, which, though, are full of comments to the press requests for having made the request for the report - what kind of question these are. In itself, it is interesting to consider the information of the European Commission generally related to the legislation. Some might say, some do. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers have said that this report is not needed. Everything has been in place. I think that when a decision is made to give up 80 billion, 72 billion of the money collected through the bank tax system and distributed to the nationals in the way this was done, there is good reason to discuss how it worked. This is not the only thing the last government did in housing matters, I think it's important that we do so. This is where a good agreement was made for the ex-fiancologists. Social Affairs Minister on improvements in housing, including tenants, of course, the correction was the biggest case in the last season. The estimated 10% of the population that had the highest income received about 30% of the 72 billion tax dollars, that was 10 percent of the highest income. The 10 percent of Iceland's most valuable property - an average of 88.6 million dollars. In a clean estate, nearly 10 billion from the state's fund got through the correction. So there are no small sums that were handled here. The majority of them ran either to those with most money, and most of them own their possessions. It is also of interest, for all the data that have been submitted to this operation revealed that the 56 - year - old and older Icelanders received 26.4 billion of these 72 billion. There's a lot of things, while the young people were left behind. The young people were left behind, and we members of the Parliament receive letters, questions, inquirys from young people struggling with their housing markets and waiting for additional options to be added either to a lease or to a property market. Another report presented here during the last term from the highest level. the local minister of finance at the request of members of Congress on generation accounts, that it is the group we should have looked especially at. The currently young group is finding it harder to get into the real estate. It's harder for him to collect for deposit in an apartment, including because his income has been left behind. That is why we also made comments to the resources called the first real estate of the last government, where the highest - income individuals among young people received a special tax discount. Sadly, the median amount of provisions in the group is 25 to 23 years old is 300 you. K., so that group will not fully use it. Of course, it is noteworthy that the new government has taken over and sat here for five weeks, and housing is not the norm in the government covenant. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if he believes that the purpose of the correction is reached, that housing is being done. Does he think that it was part of the goal that most of his income and most of his possessions were to receive a large portion of the money spent on correction? Has the highest. Don't the prime minister worry about the status of young people in a housing market? If he is concerned, why is it not mentioned in the government covenant? We can see what we read, and these reports that they took the older groups, the richer groups, the profitier groups, the largest part of the money paid by the government funds and left behind is the income group and the young people. That's serious, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u30	Mr. President. There is much to say about the housing market and what has been done in recent years. Here is a direct attention to the correcting action of the first government, which was a major campaign of the 2013 General election. How will people deal with the fact that Icelandic households's debt status has become an independent economic problem, over 100% of their land production? How to deal with this; prior actions had not worked; 110%, judges due to gangies, who had received prompt treatment even though it was late, etc.? In a government covenant, a fine way was established between the policies of the administrations that were accepted and carried out by what we have called correction. For that action, there were four reasons, mainly economic. First, the high legal debt of the homes subsided the economy. Second, it was a rationality because these previous specific actions had simply not worked out enough. Secular reasoning, that credit methods should not be followed for any type of operation or assistance. And then, finally, a fair argument, because the public's damage to the bank crash, the result of the fall of financial companies, had become the home's independent debt problem. We had a combined operation, one of the subsidies of the head position and the other way of depositing property savings on loans. As the four hundred thousand homes of the special care system continue to be used, it was due to a good conclusion being extended by about two years. I note that despite all that was said about correction, despite all that was said, it proved to be no economic inflation, but it was one of the main reasons against this operation. The correction was also not a substitution procedure, since the current report shows how the results of the correction were divided into the income tenants and could not help but point out that. There was never thought of as a remuneration procedure. It had to be an operation directed to those who owed, had a home, and so on. In exactly the same way, we have not been wondering much about the specific growth of the Norwegian welfare government of the day. Of course, they didn't wander to anyone who paid interest because of the mortgage. In this respect, it is perfunctory to suggest how this operation, which is so clearly a housing procedure for guilty homes, economic operations, broke down on a few income contributions, saying: "See how these people, this government, handle this vast amount of money, when we put it in the context of society's income balances. Why, then, is it only the 80 billion and an additional tax returns that would have swept this far over 100 billion? Why is there only 100 billion in the last term? Why don't we just take all the tax money and ask: How did the government use the tax money, the government's financial laws, in order to meet those who have less than one hand and to work in behalf of society's income balance? It's coming out of this report, because we put up more money on the social security system every year, so we've probably put more than 300 billion on the terms of our social security. Every year, we raised rights and reduced the decline. Also, if you want to get into it, ask yourself: " How did other earlier actions take place in the income business? I wonder how, for example. 110% of the way over these 73 thousand houses with mortgages? Yes, she was only able to find her way to 7,300 homes, the other one was left behind. We have an example from the actions of the former government, where one home of 1.3 million earns 106 million dollars. K. deportation - one home, over 100 million people. I wonder how it has come into the balance of income. A senator is trying to make publicity for this report? I call attention to the fact that we've previously published reports and we had calculations in the bill of success. I'm telling you, this operation was a success. She was never thought of as a conditional union operation. In contrast with other North countries, when you look closely, you can see that you have achieved far more success than others who are still sitting in debt in many northern countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u31	A respectable president. I'm curious to hear that. The prime minister seems to find it very difficult to talk about his actions without constantly referring to the actions of any former government because I speak at least for myself, I wasn't part of that government, and this discussion isn't about it. It's about one of the biggest cases of the last government as the then financier of finance, now the highest. Prime Minister, is responsible for political matters. It was one of the largest political actions of the later year in Iceland and one of the largest political actions in Iceland, in my opinion. Because of this, it is very important that the new Council be given today to take sides in the activities that were practiced at the time and in the possible example of that day. For me, the 2013 General elections were bought elections. The media promised about a quarter of the voters a lot of the money we all made against it. As a result, he received a vote for about a quarter of the voters and gave them 80 billion of the taxpayers. It was certainly an economic operation, and it was not designed, as the prime minister points out, but it was still 80 billion, who could have been paid off the State's debt and lowered interest costs, funded the infrastructure and saved the Land Hospital, replaced by a smaller percentage of voters, where less than 14% of the population received the total amount of money while the highest tenths received less than 30%, as shown in the report. In fact, the fact is that this information is completely meaningless because it was always known that those who had the right to transfer were more efficient than others. I think it's really fun, it's like saying it doesn't matter how much a high-pay tax can get into the public because it's just supposed to be high-payers anyway. I see my time is running out, but I'd like to ask you about it because of the highest. The prime minister may be convinced that he spoke against this operation in the leading of his last election, but likely he agreed to it on the grounds of having his greatest policy, which is to maintain power. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to ask, Is this not an example of a 17% rise in last year's housing prices corrected, i.e. That the rest of us who don't have housing will get money back from the government, get correction. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u32	A respectable president. I only agree with what. A saying of one thing that would have been desirable that this report had appeared much earlier, for all discussions about this matter are of the good. So much has a what? Boastful or abusive, and associates set it up to mislead it. And I must now acknowledge, most respectable president. The prime minister did much better than I expected to answer. A advocate in this matter. Because it's like the highest. A minister came in and, of course, appeared in the report itself, is completely out of the question. The question is to ask, the question is, How did these actions, which were designed to meet a certain group that suffered a certain loss, have spread to everyone? This, a respectable president, is such a preposterous approach to the point. An apocalyptic politician cannot have done this by surprise. The purpose can only have been to mislead the discussion. As we next see, including. with the access of the primer here. Put your upper leg by your dog. Here is a saying: A 16 - year - old who lives in a home and goes to school, has no income, has no loans, and has no housing, had nothing to do with the correction. However, one couple with four children who have had a double job at the end of a long time or who are paying a lot of credit for their mutations taken because of the march of banks received much more than the teen did. It's unfair, considering. The apocalyptic. A respectful president: I think that what we see primarily by this statement in the left greens and their companions here today is that as these groups now speak a lot of justice and fairness, they seem to lack a complete understanding of what these terms mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u33	A respectable president. A report on this deletion was held away from the common people. That's serious. In fact, this sad story did not begin for the last election. This hide-and-seek was immediately started with the initiation of the independence party and the forwarding party. That government did not want to make any analysis of how this large transfer would divide the population. I guess that's why, as noted at the highest level. Prime Minister, this was not a conditional adjustment procedure. But it was a very expensive price for these 80 billion dollars. conducted. The correction, for example, brought money to the best of its population. Young people, tenants, and residents of the country were left behind. You see, these people hadn't had the much increase in housing and real estate prices that many people in the capital area had received and received most of the correction. And not only so: Waiting for the debt crisis worked as a clot in a housing market. Finally, when she arrived, she caused a expansion that we can't see at the end yet. This problem requires a new government to fail. Sadly, though, she has no plans for such a thing. People proclaim transparency when it is convenient for governments to do so. Today, polls reveal that people are not happy with how the quality is divided. The reports covered it. That's why they were to be published. But there is no lesson in a new government covenant. Based on the answers to the prime minister in the past and now on the reports, there is no evidence that he will publish the next unpleasant report. It took a new secretary of finance to publish this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u34	Madam President. It's not just one thing, it's all about this case that has an end. First, the action itself that truly brings public funds, billions of dollars together, from state funds to the highest income and wealthiest of people in society. These are the facts that are not tolerated here, as is the case with the highest degree. Secretary of the budget and the highest. a former prime minister murmurs that such questions are not to be asked. These facts are simply not allowed to appear. It is so unjust to ask such questions about this good operation. But it certainly is, in fact, billions and billions of people went to the highest level of the law in society. Hundreds of families who paid a wealth tax in the preceding years received a subsidence of debt. Why did the people pay money? It was because there were 80 million or 100 million people in clean debt, on-line property. That's the way it is now. And the highest. The secretary of finance is so limited that he compares it to interest rates or special interest improvements, which, of course, are income and property related, or 110% of the way in which banks and pension funds write off debts of overcrowded and property households because they had both income and property boundaries and were working hard to believe that they had all their possessions prior to the detriment. These are incoherent things. The recommendation of public funds, the tax of the state's funds, must meet such requirements for equality and reasonableness. This operation did not. As indicated here: It is a social pyramid upside down. Second, the report itself is a scandal, and it is a concern of how unfair it is to ask such questions as they ask; it is not relevant to the European Commission how the Council puts its own questions. Just literally nothing. [[The president calls.]] And it's a good point that came up here: How about a decimal increase in real estate prices that have now become the final losses of the people who received money from the government fund? [[The point is: Illegal?]] Will it be charged with reimbursement or perhaps even getting the rest of the money?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u35	We must tax it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u36	[[The president calls.]] Where's the wrong thing today that was being corrected?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u37	Madam President. In 2008 and 2009, the economy was affected by many problems. Clearly, it is necessary to review. The Icelandic Crown crashed, inflation ran high, and domestic debt went up to nearly 130% of gross domestic product. As a result, some operations were under way, but they yielded varying degrees of success. The agent's office was set up, special interest payments were paid, 110% was intended to lose with debt homes, and gang insurance loans were rendered invalid and dropped. There were tens of thousands of homes with the price - secure mortgage, but the then government had announced that nothing more would be involved in domestic debt problems. That was the case in particular, 2013, followed by action. Hv. In June 2015, a financial minister returned a report on the results of this operation. It revealed the obvious thing, which has always existed: Those who owed their housing found more out of debt than those who owed little or nothing. This is the big truth of this whole matter. The report on this subject summarises the distribution of the decrease in capital and property status of 2014 regardless of whether the retailers owned a real estate or if they owed a head in their apartment. We could next include a report on the effect on those who do not have children. That's where it's at. Thus, in several places, a respected president, the report itself, says that it serves a small purpose to consider the distribution of these specific procedures to those who had not suffered in the wake of inflation in 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u38	Mr. President. This costly operation of the last government could hardly be described as a failure, which would indicate that it was in some way not the goal of the last government to feed the upper class's pockets primarily. Over 21 billion bucks. ended up in a pocket of 30% of the richest Icelanders. This was a warning, but the government really didn't care. There was nothing unpredictable about this conclusion. The money brought from a government fund to the pockets of mostly rich people is an outstanding example of the socialist policy that has been run in Iceland for decades. This amounted to the largest part of the nation that had the most income while poor people were left behind. This policy is directly communism for the rich but capitalism for the poor. If the more than 72 billion dollars are involved. would have been more spent on one of the most important interests. Prime Minister, i.e. to lower national debt, the growth rate today would have been high to 16 billion dollars, combined. That's over 4 billion bucks. per year, which would have, e.g. can make more room for it, build up the health system, or fix things that are wrong in transportation or something more intelligent. And there I assume that this would be used for a loss of interest, rather than some sort of bullshit. But, no, in return, this tremendous contribution was made to the wealthier. This was done instead of correcting the currency, rather than reducing growth to some extent, and instead of correcting the cost of insurance. And all of this was done without actually fixing the status of the country's lowest salary. We have to make sure that this isn't correction. We have to call it the personalisation of the nation's common resources that was what it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u39	A respectable president. Correction is one of the most successful operations that has been performed in Icelandic homes. And it is a well - known interclass operation. Economic research suggests that domestic debt has a significant impact on the depth of economic decline, so it was necessary to engage in the operation at the time. A respectable president. What was the situation here in 2009? You see, they often forget. The homes' debt had reached 126% of land production, and they were very large in international comparison. And what did the secular government do? Of course they did. They had specific procedures, such as the 110% pathway, special corrections, remuneration. I know it sometimes hurts a little bit for the left green to think about 110% because they really got close to her, but what are the numbers? Let's go over it a little bit. About 1% of the homes received about half of the transfer, or more than 20 billion dollars. This 1% of homes, or 775 homes, got about 15 million. K. transfer. How would this have spread out to the tequilas? We need to look at it and I'll especially wish it. The mean decrease in correction was 1.2 million. K. ... butabout7 billion. K. of 110%. The correction was a general procedure. You see, there was a lack of economic reconciliation between these groups. That's why the correction was under attack. That was the conclusion of a democratic election in 2013. A respectable president. So, what's the result? The legal rights of the households have rarely been better than these days, and homes'debt has not been lower by 25 years. I would also like to say that the average decrease in the lowest income level was more than 60% of total income compared to 2013 in correction. But the corresponding percentage for the top income level is 7.6%. So, from income, correction came out relatively better. A respectable president. It was an act of justice and reconciliation after the financial collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u40	A respectable president. Is it any wonder that families who were in a hope, were evicted from their homes, lost all their possessions, rejoiced with the straw, the hope given to them in their time; for debt to be made light, and for their worst goods really improved? Was it only hope that the beautiful message that sounded so well from the mouth of the leader of the then ruling government would impress people and voters? Which he made so memorable. True, the prime minister said that the correction was natural and brilliant. He also said that it would lead to a balance of income. It was similar, according to the authors, the largest crowning promotions in collective agreements. Ten percent of the lowest income would be required to correct more than 60% of their annual income, but only 8% of the 10% that the highest earns. Similarly, the distribution of corrective measures would be much more balanced than the distribution of previous resources. But was that really so? And were not the writers of this financial world, even on a global scale, claiming to be unsatisfactory? It has been observed how this unfortunate intervention was rejected in the least - to - be, thereby serving these established interests, forwards and independent groups, well. Like the ostrich in ancient times, the report was inserted into a drawer and her head in the sand, hoping for a better time. But now we are living in a different time. The public no longer wants to use unroduced devices, double furs, and decorations. The thousands of inhabitants of the land are insulted, the Icelandic public perceives the context of things, something that politicians constantly underestimate. [[The president calls.]] Politicians are to accept morals and respect rules. [[The president calls.]] And would it not be advisable for the government to cultivate the language of someone in that town to be tamed, to practice less than willing, less trash, and less poor? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u41	The president would like to ask senators to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u42	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion. We may not be much closer to the situation today. It's interesting to me that there have been five groups of seven members here spoken at the General Assembly. Two groups do not see reason to participate in discussions, there is a bright future, and restoration, although these groups must have a view of this enormous operation, which is likely to have not been mentioned in the government covenant. Of course, it is noteworthy that these groups do not see reason to comment on this tremendous operation. There's a complaint about questions like nine years ago. Senators for the Ministry of Economics. They complain that the questions were not correct. Wait, if the correction was a general procedure, as stated here, why not examine the overall evidence? Of course, it is the earners who do not have an apartment. This was not an operation for the earners. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for just being honest. It wasn't a income-separation procedure, it's absolutely right. It was an incoherent procedure. That's where it's at. We heard what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson says: The discussion is being misled. Of course, a married couple with children did not have children. Yes, they received more, but those who received the most were those who had the highest income and had the most of their possessions. It's not about misleading the discussion. It's about looking at the facts as they see them. They've been signed here. Correction wasn't a procedure to match. We saw other actions that I mentioned in my first talk, which was far better at agreeing with, and I referred to the bill of housing and building in a tenet. But I reiterate what I said earlier: There is no mention of housing in the government contract of a new government. Was the correction, which was called the mother of all campaign halls, the ultimate answer to the national housing problem? Is it not meant to meet the conditions in the house - to - house market today? [[The president calls.]] There's been evidence of an increase in real estate prices. The possible precedent for this operation has been identified here. What's ahead, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u43	A respectable president. This has been an excellent conversation, e.g. emphasizes the difference between classes. I'm not disturbed by the fact that money goes from treasure to homes. The economic balance of home is extremely important. We have been successful in improving the financial status of our homes far beyond our neighbors. It claims that part of the operation went only to the richest people. This is so wrong. Of course, there were sums of money in this operation. If we examine the number of people involved in this operation, 24% went to homes with less than 4 million each year's income, 24% of the total budget level. How much went to the homes of four and a half million each year? Yes, 19%. If we then add a quarter of a year's income to those of us, then we've got another 17%. This is a majority of the operation that goes to homes with less than 8 billion. K. [[Up front.]] However, this is a procedure that only turns toward those who have the most in the hands. This is a better description of the measures taken previously, and the voters rejected absolutely at the first opportunity when they were allowed to vote. Other issues and housing policies are also asked in a larger context. We've just taken out a number of bills that will change the housing market in Iceland. May I mention housing improvements, may I mention agreements on stock contributions due to social housing and the legal environment of social housing? Can I mention that child reforms have been increasingly directed to less earners of their income? And we've been canceling the declines and making a big contribution to social security. In recent years, there have been so many things that we have done in order to be more concerned with the plight of many social groups. But one action that was always clear for what purpose was put together cannot be taken, saying: This action describes the course of the last government. [[The president calls.]] No, you need to look at the bigger picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u44	A respectable president. There is a need for a material discussion on the decision of a minister to avoid publishing a report on Iceland's property in taxes and what the consequences of that decision should be. The contents of this report are truly remarkable. As stated in the opinion of the Trustee of the Generals, the information given there is of public interest. Once a year, loss of income is worth a billion dollars. A minister has also admitted that it was a mistake not to publish the report before election. The issue we're discussing is that a minister has not returned information to the public is very serious. A minister's moral code clearly states that a minister should take the initiative to publish information that is relevant for public interest. To take all the doubt from the discussion of this matter, I ask the minister to answer the following questions in a clear, clear, honest manner as he is required when addressing a council and a nation: 1st When does the Minister think the report was ready for publication? 2. Since the report was published as long as the Council was not active, why could it not be published before elections, even after the council was terminated? 3. Did the material of the public interest report become available? 4. Course minister against C- team 6. in the code of ethics by making a decision that the report would not be published to a nation as soon as a minister received a presentation at October 5, 2016, but three months later, after the election? 5. In view of its arrival in business with a fellow tax officer, why was a minister not incapable of making a decision on the release of the report? A respectable president. Since this cover - up with the report, the report has repeatedly been submitted to the council. Yes, the report was finally delivered after a minister found out that he was sitting on the report. It's like returning the stolen part when the stealer gets up. That does not excuse the theft. The damage is done. They've bought tickets and gone on vacation to Panama. It is also repeated repeatedly that the time has come to discuss the subject of this report. The report is always being discussed. The report will continue to be discussed. It's very important. This, however, is a question of why the information it contained did not come to the public. A respectable president. It is time for the minister to answer for his decision not to publish the report and discuss the consequences of that decision. I look forward to hearing members' opinions about the consequences and why. I'm asking senators to keep that in mind. We're not the public in here. We're doing public service. The Ministers there have the highest responsibility, and one of the duties of a minister is to share information - not just providing information to the council, but to the general public. But 6. The rules of ethics are about information and communication with the general public, not with the council. What does it mean, then, when a minister can only refrain from following the moral principles that the members of Congress legalize themselves? Is that reassuring? Is it responsible? Is it not a misuse of power when a minister who engaged in business through a taxjoe decides to hide a report on Iceland's trade through a tax bill just before an election that was hurried because of a tax trade? The economic conflict is obvious. The vote scheme is obvious. In spite of stake ties and the code of ethics, the person responsible decided to hide the information that the voters were entitled to. By doing so, a traitor to voters. By misuse of power, Ministers prevented voters from evaluating the information contained in the report for their own election. Clowns do not become more serious. A respectable president. Honorable senators. It is unacceptable for a minister to do this, not just the counseled ministers, but all ministers. Ministers now. Ministers of the future. Senators must insist on the more disciplined efforts of the Generals for and for the nation's sake. The senators have the commission from the nation and are bound only by their own convictions. What does the conviction or conscience of members of Congress say about this betrayal? Excuse the senators because it suits their position personally? Do members of Congress consider themselves irresponsible by not doing anything? Why don't they understand how serious this offense is? What happens next when some minister puts information in a drawer? Nothing's supposed to happen? If there are no consequences now, why should there be consequences later? If that happens later, why not now? The ability to do what is right. Councilmen honestly say that no matter who is involved, no matter how long, the consequences of such treachery are exactly not to be found at all? Of course not! So I ask for this special discussion, where the prime minister can explain his mistakes, apologize and resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u45	A respectable president. Here's a few specific questions for me, including... what laws, regulations, regulations, or rules of conduct apply to proper ministers. In the 3rd. Government law discusses when ministers and other government employees are incompetent to handle matters and when to take their seats. It should be noted that the administrative law applies when making administrative decisions. It is clear that the decision to make the report that was taken from me and to publish is not a administrative decision and therefore the law is not relevant. Ministers of morality in itself do not add much to the administrative law in this regard, which might be considered in Article 2. a. But I don't see that there has been any conflict between my financial or personal interests and the public interests that are related to the publication of this report. That is absolutely essential. I'd like a senator to check here. There have been no laws or rules broken here. There was no case relevant to the minister's case. [[Up front.]] The minister had declared himself right, granted his end. Whether a minister may be incompetent in such matters at any time - of course, everything else applies when a person is guilty of wrongdoing. But when there's nothing to hide, this question is equivalent to whether a financial secretary who counts as tax in Iceland can have reports compiled from the income tax system. This is equivalent to that question. But, hey. A senator naturally merely lives in the fantasy that law has been broken, and as a result, the minister must have been incompetent. There is a real problem. Senator. Then you will use the fitting questions. It's perfectly clear that this case is not about proper at least. not in a legal sense. I want to make it clear that this report was compiled on my side. I had no interference with her type. Of course, I think it's obvious that a report I had put together and finally laid before the council should be relevant to the public, since it was intended to shed light on a very important subject. I have to make it happen here that I believe the report requires a lot more observations. She leaves many questions that remain. I have never been in connection with this report to determine whether any subject was of greater importance than other public interest. There was nothing but public vision. We have been asked when the report was completed. It was presented in the government of October 7th, i.e. with a memo on the main points. In other words, she was ready for publication thereafter, at least when the person standing here had time to study the material and then to participate in a discussion about it. However, as mentioned earlier, I had decided that the report would be delivered to the Allied Economic and Business Committee before it would be published in public. This was because the committee took a measure of initiative in these issues when it comes to policies and legislation related to this discussion. I've had and had a good partnership with the committee last year, and we made many changes in the law. summer. I concluded that it would hardly be time to introduce the General report in view of the coming election. All of this has been revealed before. I also state that there is something under a chair or in a drawer that the committee was answered. The press said that the report is about to be completed. This was public knowledge, not just that I had decided to have the report brought together, but that it was coming. Yet, people here compare it with those who keep information secret to the public. Let us make a distinction between the issues where there is information in the Ministry that no one knows may be there and that information is kept from the council or the people of the country, and the rest just about when information is returned to the council. This particular report came to the council and, unfortunately, has been given way too little materially, which must be the main concern here. Questions such as, for example, This: Is there anything in the report that tells us that we still have much to do to change the legal environment in connection with a tax field so that we will expand our use of it? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Is there anything in the report that says that? What the report says is: We've been on the lead. We've done a lot of things. There are other ways to choose, but then we're getting closer to setting down a law against associates of this kind. [[The president calls.]] I'll make it count for a while. Later in the discussion, I make other comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for bringing this important issue to the attention, i.e. The fact that a minister of Iceland's government decided to keep information from the public in the process of election. That's the way it was. That was the ultimate decision. Minister taken. In fact, his own case, although in a somewhat more hardened gear today, has revealed that he believes that it was a mistake on his part not to publish the report much sooner than before the total election was completed in October last. That's at least The conclusion of the U.S. Marshal in response to my business in terms of ethics. I just want to ask the highest. Whether he changed his mind about making a mistake in his office because with open eyes he decided, Bjarni Benediktsson the then secretary of finance, not to submit his report. What led to that decision? What was the basis for the decision to keep the information from the common people? The staff returned September 13, and the report was published on January 6. These are the facts. There are no guidelines to suggest that Benediktsson and some other minister in Iceland's government feel better at work. It's not like that. Also, administrative laws are not designed to make the administration feel more comfortable at work, or the counsellors. These are all regulations that we make for the common people to be protected from those who know how to use power badly. That's exactly what we're facing here. A minister of Iceland's government decides to keep information from the public, information that truly influenced the matter of election action, and that, a respectable president, will do nothing else for the General Assembly of Iceland, in view of the Supreme Court. On TV, a minister has said that it was a mistake, but he who goes to the Council asks for the same General's apology.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u47	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson for starting this discussion is of utmost importance. Not long ago. The members of Parliament discussed a well - documented report, but more its contents were at the highest level. Secretary of finance, but we'll discuss this with a slightly altered format. Prime Minister. However, in my brief speech, I will stress the same points that I did in the discussion I had with the highest degree. Secretary of finance because I feel like the highest. How important it is that we take advantage of the opportunity at the same time to discuss material content! There I asked the highest. Secretary of finance, and I also ask the highest. The prime minister now, whether there are any information on which members were making the budget for the crash either in the tax pool or in order to limit their risks to some extent and also to take advantage of Iceland's Secret Bank, a so-called discount guide, and whether there is a link between these groups or whether the same party was involved. In addition, a further report states that the tax authorities have not been alerted by the Federal Bank for suspicious financial transfers and that it has also been made available at an open meeting. The Economic and Business Commission has established that there are opinions between these institutions, Iceland's Penitentiary and the government, on this surveillance. It was also noted at this open meeting that the business banks should monitor these funding transports. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether it is important for him to increase the monitoring of such capital transport and to give tax authorities more weight to monitor them. I'm going to end my speech with those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u48	Mr. President. With the permission of the President, I would like to read from the council hearing of the Parliamentary Committee that discussed the report of the Allied Committee and give an explanation of the nation's trust in politicians. In the council arrangement, we even have an arrangement. This: ▪ It is clear that the people's trust was restored by their words and actions by the Allied Parliament and the Generals. It says that the basis for the democracy must be confidential, reliable, transparent, and honest. The suspicion alone is enough to cause a loss of confidence, so politicians must always put their words and actions out of their confidential relationship with land and nation. In contrast, the Senate is thinking as a platform of public opinion, while politics has often been marked by debates and conflicts in which the goal is to defeat the opponent and convince the audience. Such politics are allegorized to be unconcerned, for the results depend on authority rather than on sound reasoning based on sound information. I remind you that the council proposal was agreed together with 63 votes by all members of Congress. I'll think about it here. I'll think about it. Senators examining the words of the highest degree. Early prime minister and the comments he has made on this report in view of this approval of the Generals and also the fact that the report was completed in September but not published until January after elections and hearings. But it may be so much. The prime minister was well aware that information on the tax fraud of the Icelanders was a public interest concern, but his evaluation is that the public interest includes that as many as possible choose the Independence Party, and that is why he did not publish the report in the subsequent elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u49	A respectable president. The last time I discussed this report, I pointed out the possible criminal responsibility of the highest degree. Prime Ministers, I gave a powerful witness. The minister does not pretend to understand why the public and the Senate are not just grateful when he took the initiative to make the report. But the highest. By this reasoning a minister chooses to overlook his legal obligation in order to submit the report on time. A report full of important election information. That's what I'm talking about. Ministers do not have reason to file a requested campaign-separated report. The highest reaction. Ministers may not be surprised. This is not the first time the minister is covering a tax bill, a council and a nation lie about their relationship with this burglary's den and then assaults those who point out the crylessness of the Minister. That's the end of it. The Minister himself in Panama documents, happy memories. It's not the first time either. Ministers abuse their power to deceive voters. It is not forgotten how he dealt with the purchases of data that perhaps contained information on the services of a crime group of Mossack Fogneca - yes, a criminal organization, both founders have been arrested for organized crime at the highest level. Minister and his family. No, a respectable president. I'm not surprised to hear it. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson uses here again and again the same tactics as he does every time it comes to reports of telecommunications or abuse of authority. Minister will end the longtime rhythms of the Independence Party. What's surprising is why. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek and the highest. Secretary Óttarr Proppé, representatives of the election's companies of less than voluntary interest in the public interest, and improved employment at the council, now agree to the highest level. The prime minister, with painful follow - ups, takes no more for himself than to be in the government with him in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u50	V.E.G. President. This discussion, I do not discuss with the last speaker, does not surprise me when this subject is being discussed. It's a shitty discussion and a terrible way to talk. Absolutely pathetic. And not a man that's well-behaved. [[The point is, why?]] Because. It's very obvious, and I'm not gonna spend all the time trying to explain it to humans. That is a reasonable explanation for why the report was not published. This case was being discussed in the Economic and Business Committee during the last term. It always stood for her to go to the Committee. There is nothing unusual about this sort of report being conducted in the Ministry after it comes. Besides, it's only wrong that she's drunk or full of information that would have mattered before elections. The only significant thing for which it was not known is that the tax fraud, which, of course, is judged inaccurately, was much less than the debate, and the claim was made. The Chairman of the Commission for the Economic and Business Committee was identified when the report was discussed until there is no information and data. If I put myself in the position of a minister who received a report like this, I would, of course, say, "Hey, you want to take a closer look at this? We need more information, we need more information. Very reasonable in considering the matter's first entry into the council. But it didn't matter before the election, because there was nothing new in it that would have affected the election. The only thing that might have mattered is that a minister might have tried to shoot at this: I did what no one else did. No, this discussion is pathetic and not pleasing to any of the men mentioned above, especially those of the Pirata class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u51	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to step aside from this material discussion and keep on thinking about ethic and ethics. I've done it before, this is the second time in this room. I'd like to say as far as a report is concerned, it should be clear to the minister, and neither a sharp one. A senator who spoke before is not a judge of what is the contents of a report or whether it is of any benefit or when a report should be submitted. It does not matter whether the council is submitted, acted by specialists, or asked for a minister for approval or encouragement. Report is ready when she's ready. Then whatever the minister thinks is correct or not should be provided. This is in accordance with all the natural democratic work. The contents are not the first, not the length, not the manner in which the secretary agrees or disagrees. It is simply a matter of formality, or process, that we should not have to debate. As far as I'm concerned, a minister has made mistakes on the progress of the report. The decision, however, was conscious, not forgotten. The interests of the world were out of control. It doesn't matter whether anyone thinks it's important to get an election or not. Then to the other side of the matter. The minister last mentioned that a body of Congress should agree on the nature and content of moral principles. Of course you're right. I was just trying to get his position out of the common misunderstanding of many people. There was no discussion about penalties. I simply said, "It doesn't matter if the person has become a fugitive or a forgetful person or he has intent on doing so. " All of this can be called failures that make no difference in severity. The offender's wrongdoing is due to the lack of evidence behind wrong rules. An apology may not change anything except some reciprocated laws. This is the essence of my speech and is of great concern if the code of ethics is to be of any use. [[The president calls.]] And one thing is quite clear, so I repeat: Studies of ethics are not subject to intent, excuse, indiscretion, or any such thing but only to the actions of themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u52	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, this discussion. It's good to go. A senator would like to bring up a more open and efficient administration. There's constant reason, Mr. Honorable President, to improve our work ethic and effective management. V.E.G. A minister has answered questions that involve key emphasis. Senator. I'm not going to make it up or try to judge. But the highest. The minister himself has acknowledged that the report would have been desirable then, and when it was completed, the report was very important to all. I would like to highlight the context of the report in which, i.e. that it was part of a major operation and response of the last government and was directed against alleged tax collections, the scope of national society, and the use of tax sludges. There was great agreement at the council on this government action program. It is important in this discussion that the response was strong, and they were real, including. in accordance with international cooperation in this field. In addition, legal regulations were finally laid out to counteract the thin self - esteem. There may well be a basis for setting a more specific or clearer framework for such reporting - it will hopefully be mentioned and adopted in relevant committees - the temporal frame for which the report is submitted and until it is published publicly and then completely, regardless of the outcome or condition of the political bitch. However, the results of the report are the most important in all this matter in my mind and merely an appeal to the problems of the tax industry are and help to eliminate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u53	Mr. President. The government code says, by permission of the President: The secretary of state does not conceal information about public interest unless law or public interest requires otherwise. The minister should take the initiative to produce such information as it is in the public service. Those who read the report on the property of Icelanders in nationalities can see the obvious fact that the report contains information that is relevant to the public in the country. Despite the advances, the government's code of ethics went against it. It's very, very sorry. Before the election, the prime minister is not impressed with the report, through a political conference, and until January. V.E.G. A minister claims that nothing new was published in the relevant report. That's wrong. Even if it was true, it is not the highest. Minister to judge that. He has a responsibility toward the nation and the council. He failed to do so. Of course, mediamen would have been involved in a debate program for elections on what is stated in the report, on the Panama Documents, and on tax evasion. Of course, on the basis of the report, we, the candidates, would have discussed tax fraud. They see every man. Of course, it would have been the highest. Prime Ministers felt uncomfortable for themselves and for the Independence Party. Hence, it is only natural for people to wonder if this was exactly why the report was not published until after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u54	A respectable president. There's a lot of things here, and it's repeated that the Minister says he took the initiative in the report when he himself tells RUS in an interview that the idea arose in a conversation with a financial and business committee, so to be clear. I'm just hearing that her subject was introduced in the 7th October government, there's a new date in the time line where we heard in the public address on October 10 that the report was coming. That did not happen for another three months. The report has not received too little materially. There's always talk of these things. However, it is absolutely necessary to talk about the Minister's decision not to return the report. That's a very important decision. This is a decision he made with stated wills, has said that it was a mistake. Now we need to ask about the consequences of that mistake. Two questions have not been answered, whether the report contained a public interest report and whether a minister violated the code of ethics. Codes that were specifically designed to strengthen confidence in the administration. Rules to strengthen trust are now being violated. To me, it just calls for distrust, that's all. It explains in a grammatical way what the minister's work was, how they are betrayed by the voters. I simply ask for answers about the consequences. Such questions are referred to as "a tragic debate. " They just judge themselves. We here do not consider whether the contents of the report would have affected the election. That's what the voters do. Clients were deprived of that decision. That's what it's all about. Should we just be okay with that? We have to deal with the fact that such distrust, such betrayal of voters, is meant to have consequences. If this is not the case now, why will this result later? This is really serious. This is all about the credibility of the council and the credibility of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u55	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion; people have gone into it each in their own way. The question is, What are some of the factors involved in the Bath - sheba Bank? What can we do better in the future in order to monitor financial contributions? One of the main results of this report is that we need to do much better; we lack data and we lack information to draw correct conclusions. The report aims to address the scope of various issues, where the underlying money runs at hundreds of billions. One of the obvious results of this report is that we need much more information to take a stand on these issues. They've come up here, they've been saying things like what they're doing. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, that they believe that there's something criminal here. And more than one member of the council has come up here and said that the minister has abused his power, he has broken the law. That one. Councilmen need, I think, only to dig deeper and study the available resources. This is where people cry out: Distrust, distrust. Those words must be followed by actions and a declaration of distrust. That is also what humans have done and were very hesitant. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] There's a way to explain these matters. You can be very calm about their presence here at the council. This is a place where people beat up and down. I really respect it for what I do. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson says that this matter must be discussed in the material material material. Then I'd like to call you - if I could ask you why. the advisor stop talking like that all the time... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u56	The president asks for a speaker to be heard. It is especially appropriate for a speaker to give a silent reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u57	- Yes, I would. [[Up front.]] He has done this so that when others have always wanted to associate with the election, they themselves become self - assured with reason when they arrive in that area. I believe that it would have benefited greatly from receiving this document before election, even though it would be only to promote more moderation in the discussion of these matters. [[The president calls.]] But it's kind of funny to listen to some of the members of the council here, indicating that they just didn't have any basis to discuss these matters before the election because they almost did nothing else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u58	You didn't answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 161/2002, on financial companies, with subsequent changes, and on law No. 87/1998, on official financial monitoring, with subsequent changes. The bill's on the roof. 185 and 126th. The bill contains suggestions aimed at making financial and financial agencies available for employees and other partners in a financial market to report fractures, attempted violations, or possible violations of financial markets. Then the proposals to protect employees in the field following such announcements, e.g. to keep a secret name and other personal details about the offender. By the changes proposed in the bill, the legal obligation to set up processes to receive reports from employees on fractures, possible offenses, or attempted offenses. Such processes should be separated from other pathways within a financial enterprise, such as a financial enterprise. Order order. Those who will be assigned to receive announcements will be bound to the confidential information in an announcement, including the name of the person reporting a fracture. The responsibility is wide open to other employees, management, managers and external sources. It is only assumed that information related to confidentiality may be transmitted to the SEC or police by the nature of the finding that they will be properly investigated by them. The bill states that all the personal data produced should be in accordance with the personal protection laws as well as the information relating to the person being reported on the basis of the rules. Thus, all personal details should be removed if there is no evidence to be made of any notification or observation that a possible fracture has not occurred or if there is only an announcement to address the subject. Those who report in good faith must ensure protection and have a financial responsibility to provide the relevant protection against all possible discrimination due to the announcement. For example, the term "mis rights " is clearly defined in the bill. Rather, we are referring to unpredicted resignation, delinquency, job application, non-sential public identification, harassment, delinquency, or anything comparable. However, it should be noted that the person who announces a fraction of good faith and protection will not be included in the announcements made against a better awareness. This does not extend to the protection of the law that a financial company will never be able to depart an employee reporting a violation of its work. However, it must be for reasons other than that an employee has reported a violation of another employee and has a financial burden to prove it. If a financial enterprise violates its obligation to protect an employee, it is subject to damage to an employee and shall be paid to the employee for both financial damage and failure. These rights of employees according to the requirements are indiscriminate and cannot be limited in a contract. The bill also presents a change in the law on official control of financial activity. This change obliges the SEC to set up processes and receive reports of a violation of financial markets from companies working on such markets. The SEC procedures should be separate from other activities in the Agency and ensure that reports are reported. If information on the person reporting is received, it should be kept secret unless it is obliged to provide such information, e.g. for the treatment of criminal cases or by court order. It is then mandatory that personal information should be produced in accordance with the personal protection laws. The bill is based on the CRD IV Directive as it is often mentioned. For a 71 st. It provides a protocol that states that the EEA should have a national law that obligates financial companies to have the means to receive the report of violations by the workers. The Directive also states that financial market monitoring agencies in the EEA should have such processes. In the processing of the bill, legislation was taken up in the North countries, i.e. Denmark, Norway and Sweden. In the last year, the northern nations have changed their laws on the subject of Article 71. The CRD IV Directive. The elements of the bill are largely based on Danish law laws on the same subject. The objective of the bill is to facilitate reporting on financial violations but also to increase the likelihood that fractures can be reported earlier in the activities of those under official supervision or prevent them. The experience of other countries by the laws that give informers the possibility of reporting a fracture is positive and can be cited as the experience of Norwegians who have had such laws since 2006. A respectable president. In my opinion, the bill is designed to increase the confidence and trust of the public in the financial market, especially if it is to be carried out in accordance with the rules recommended by the bill. So I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u60	Mr. President. This bill of defending unveiled financial interests was, in fact, one of the few cases in the Government Constitution that I had some small chance of doing something conclusively positive for a national economy, I just have to admit it, which, in fact, is not really a product of the future. But if you know, my hope for the quality of this bill was to be disappointed, since it seems that it did not take into account the actual experiences of the unveilers. As we look at unveilers through the ages, such as Jeffrey Wigand, Edward Snowden, Chelsea Manning, Bill Binney, Thomas Drake, Ad Bos, Sergei Magnitsky, and others, Rudolf Elmer, for example, one pattern is quite clear: when people decide to reveal the errors of others, in whatever context they are, their lives are as they have been presented, almost without exception. Whether it operates within or outside the financial sector. The bill assumes that financial companies will be forbidden to use a form of penalties against unveiled persons. But that is very poorly defined as not to be done. Indeed, the exposed people must have ensured social, psychological, and financial security and personal security, of course, because there are many forms of force and stress involved in exposing error, especially when the interests, especially the financial ones, are considerable. The bill considers that economic security in a swamp, but it does not make a major difference. We need to understand that when people follow their convictions and expose their errors in the financial sector, they will soon be unable to work in that sector. The future job prospects may be limited, especially if someone asks about who was the exposed person. It does not necessarily have to be checked out, even if it is forbidden in this bill to reveal it, it does not necessarily have to be asked out in a way that is attributable to what was revealed about it. Thus, the financial security of the exposed people has to be guaranteed in a much clearer way than that of the bill and is not expected to leave the financial resources at the financial level of the Commission. The F.A. has no special experience in caring for the well - being of unveiled people. Psychological and social pressures on exposed people are also considerable, for by their actions, by their decision to inform them of any error or offense, they are often exposed to serious personal risks. Walking e.g. against their superiors, even against their friends. The strong sense of justice required to accept it is not enough to prevent uninsurmounted people from experiencing it. Therefore, there is some way to ensure that there is adequate support, especially in the medical system, but also within the framework of the financial sector so that people do not become isolated and suffer social and psychological damage. The last thing, personal security, has not been much of a problem in Iceland, so I know, that the unveiling of errors is subject to physical harassment; yet, there is some need to be taken care of in some way, for people in many places have been very badly exposed, especially financially, and can be referred to Sergei Magnitsky in this context. The bill may only be about a so-called internal unveiling process in which the unveiling viewer consults within its organisation, but the bill makes no attempt to link the Agency's responsibility with the possible continuation of a case that does not have normal treatment within the house. If there is no complaint or indication in the house, it is very common and normal to go further, i.e. external exposure to the authorities, such as the SEC in this case, or external exposure to the media, which is often the last step as well as the most difficult, but that is a step that the exposed have been forced to take in the past. Madam President. I hope there's a way to make things right with this bill. I specifically recommend that they be viewed as work, which may include: Guido Strack has worked with Whistlebler Netzwerk's German organization. Mr. Strack himself was unveiling at his time, had a significant financial mismanagement within the European Commission. So he knows all the things I've mentioned before. It's remarkable to talk, like the highest. A minister made that the law does not apply to people who reveal errors different from those of good faith. A talk on the nature of the truth may be held in this context, but it is difficult or probably impossible to determine whether someone is exposing a fragment in good faith or not. Therefore, it is rather surprising to specify a requirement for reporting a fraction of good faith, perhaps rather speaking of a condition of the fact that real and authentic fractions have occurred, not to be making things up, e.g. to try to strike one of your workmates. In fact, exposure laws can be spoken for a very long time. Such legislation has been proposed before the Council in earlier years. Similarly, the Ministry of Education has a bill for the protection of unveiled people who have every reason to appear here. True, it's not a bill that's been pacified, but it doesn't feel like it's at the highest file. Governments. I mean, if the goal is to develop some kind of legislation that's supposed to protect a particular person, then it's only natural to look to the experience of such a person. Not doing it is at best foolish. We have to stop walking halfway to things. Building a rather poor dance law in this case does not really help us to ensure that the unveiling protection necessary for the unveiling to perform or promote important information about the violation of financial markets, that the laws are the way they should be. We need to stop such a special outfit and start doing things properly in a complete way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u61	A respectable president. We're here discussing an important case involving financial violations. It involves trust and maintenance of financial institutions, but as we know, there is always a need to be on guard against them. The bill sets rules and processes for reporting fractures or suspected fractures. Special attention is given to the rights of those accused of wrongdoing. Of course, it is important to avoid abuse, e.g. if the announcement is intended only to strike a particular employee but not to inform you of a offense. I cut it down in my speech anyway. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr before that I felt that he misunderstood this protection, i.e. The purpose should not be merely to strike an employee with unfounded charges. If the whole point is to bring a man down with unfounded accusations, I think it's worth it. However, more important is the fact that the person exposed to fractures is particularly protected and markets are special methods and methods of communicating information and investigating its motives. In order to increase transparency and encourage employees to report fractures under the name, it is expected that they will be informed who is inside the company about the person reporting. For example, it is not desirable for other employees to be informed about the person who reported a break-off, it can prevent an employee from reporting. There will be no need for the head of a financial enterprise, e.g. Management and Commission, get information on the name or other personal details about the person reporting a fracture. All of this is meant to protect the informant. It is also good to point to a rich protection for a informant who is involved in an act of discrimination that he may or may be caused by a report of a violation or a suspected offense. On this point, the bill's report says by permission of the president: The concept of a contract is not the norm; it includes both prior notice with a review of the employment contract and a paraphrase of a contract. Also, the term is intended to include incoherentity, recruitment, non-combatant public identification, harassment, delinquency, pathology, non-surrection, or any other comparable measures due to the reporting of fractures. This law is very extensive. And go ahead, with President's permission: The paragraph does not contain a ban on the removal of an employee from a financial agency, compromises him to a position of authority, or makes room for work. On the other hand, if financial companies take such measures and are a direct or indirect result of an employee's announcement, the financial company may become subject to damage to the employee. Such actions must therefore be based on reasons other than that the employee has at some point been informed of fractures. A respectable president. This above quote sums up the importance of this matter and the protection of the bill. This is to ensure that fear of personal gain does not prevent the exposure of lawbreakers. In my mind, there is no doubt that this bill contains a great justice, and I support my whole mind that it will turn into law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u62	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 39/2016, change of XXII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Society rights, and enter the Convention Directive for the release of certain big enterprises and the partnerships of economic and multiplicity information. The directive has about two ways to increase transparency and provide access to information about the effects of certain large enterprises on society. First, the Directive appoints large organisations related to the public interest sector to provide an overview of economic information in a Community report. This overview shall include information on the development, performance and status of the enterprise in environmental, social and staff matters, human rights policy and how it is handled by corruption and bribes. If a partner does not follow a specific policy in these areas, a clear and logical explanation should be given as to why this is not included in the overview. Second, the Directive puts it upon enterprises that have their stocks written in an orderly stock market to publish in a report a description of the Community's multiplicity policy in connection with the management, management and monitoring of the company. Diversity refers to factors such as age, sex, or educational background. If no such policy is followed within the company, the report shall explain why. The directive includes certain large enterprises and therefore does not place the same obligations on SMEs. By the legislation on the change of annual accounts approved during the last legislation, the directive was implemented into Icelandic. The agreed decision of the joint EEA committee was made on the basis of a administrative notice on the part of Iceland, where it called for a national legal adjustment. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Minister for his grueling history, and at the same time, I wish to congratulate him on hiding a fine ossuary in a very boring and transparent title. We're talking about something called financial information, which might even be hung out on someone in the Ministry for finding the concept of being an excellent subject. The fact that an enterprise gives a certain account of environmental trends, social and staff issues, respect for human rights and corruption defenses is something that is kind of a big deal and nothing to hide in the verbal translation centre. But I would like to ask the minister. The directive here suggests that these rules will include partners with over 500 workers working on a yearly basis. Based on what is currently available in the magazine Free Trade that appeared last year, only 26 companies of that magnitude here were in our country. The Icelandic labour market differs from what happens in many parts of Europe. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister if the Ministry considered to expand the rules only relative to what was set up in Brussels and extend them to smaller companies in this country than those having 500 people working.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u64	A respectable president. I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of at the Ministry for translation. As the record shows, this is something that is recorded on the EEA Committee. I think it matters, even if you can totally feel that the words may be clearer. I think it is important that the translation is as direct as possible, so there is no misunderstanding. It's like it's like it's out of nowhere. A senator's purpose is in this directive. We do know, though, that despite those rules, there is no guarantee that humans will prevent everything we do not want to see. We know this from experience. For the number only. I think it's important now that we're talking about what's going on. The matter must be considered before and then the Senate reviews it. Based on the information I've acquired, a company with a average number of annual jobs being 250, not 500, and a total of 3 billion dollars is mentioned. and pure roll 6 billion. It's a reference. I know that's not what the report says, but it's something I think it is. A committee has to go over and study. Based on the information we have, and I have here, and I don't agree with what's going on there, these are 80◯100 companies. We also need to keep in mind that all these rules bring cost. It is important, especially when our companies are very small or medium-sized, and all companies in Iceland are such that we do not put ourselves in such a way that we have too burdensome rules, even if our goals are good. [[The president calls.]] The aims of all rules are good, but they are not always the results we want to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u65	Madam President. I call it good to have a minister able to expand the scope of the rules four times from what was in the lead address, just from the Ministry class to the stocks. It's too bad it's just two rounds we've got answers, otherwise you could let it cover even more companies. It is true that the minister says that this is in a way a burden for the companies who need to understand and solve all issues. For larger enterprises which bring in a comprehensive annual account, it is highly difficult to use the same trip to combine what is called on the EEA Committee case, so that I have the right, economic information, which is relevant. While the existence of these reports alone does not guarantee that companies such as Avoid corruption and bribes, then, there is something that can be used to bond such activity in the future. I am excited to see how the matter continues to develop in the next introductions of the minister and even in the presence of the committee. It's never to be known until this lasts for all an important rule of action, as we Ministers are clearly agreed, that the business environment of companies, their information, will produce a better business drive in this country, that certain financial information will be available to assess whether companies are well run, not just financially.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-21-29.u66	Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his answer. Just to be clear, there was no discrepancy between the debate and pessimism in the question. Rather, I was referring to the report. This is something I think it is. The committee should be consulted. We're quite clear that there's no way to bribe in Iceland. This doesn't change anything. Likewise, corruption is forbidden, although it is a broad concept that some use quite freely. But there is no change in this. Given all the readings I've seen, there's been very little talking about, if anything, in Iceland compared to many other countries. We must not deceive ourselves either. I suppose if some company was going to practice such a thing, it wouldn't exactly put it in a report like this. But it's just as forbidden before and after. What we need to keep in mind when setting such regulations - and I've never seen a Regulation set to get something bad going, the objective is always good - that if it requires a lot of work, I'm not talking about in small and medium-sized companies, we'll make the business environment very difficult. Now, all of us who are employed here are on the payroll of taxpayers and the values created in this society are in the hands of the companies. We are competing with people, especially younger people. The younger ones have more opportunities than we do when we were older. There will be much more in the immediate future. We should always keep in mind that we want to have an environment so that we will be with our young people, if they so choose, here on the land, and with a standard of living as they do best elsewhere. I got it. I got it. A committee to evaluate and review all these items. [[The president calls.]] We present these matters, and then it is the Senate's decision to review and evaluate them.
