ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u1	A respectable president. Of course, I'm glad it's been made available. I must mention, though, that I find it odd how much reasoning was needed and really struggle to do so. According to it, I deeply appreciate the fact that there was some hearer, as it happens, for the decision that was made in a vote for the bandor was to be enough. There was no need to discuss this further, but it was supposed to be clear what we needed to do as we were at the economic and business committee meetings. I don't want to slow this down because it's a good thing that this has ended up like this, so happy to see all groups of carriers. Let us hope that with less character in the future, we can achieve comparable solidarity with simple reasoning and facts before all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u2	A respectable president. I was going to try to talk about the vote for myself because next time there is a vote related to this, i.e. about the change in the shape of the screen. 137 of the Pirates and others about the same as 300 million that somehow made their way into this room up to 250 million, caused by uncertainty as to whether the sum was true. We were trying to make sure of the right amount. Apparently it's gone back and forth and ended up there in 250 of some strange cause. But because at the time of the right amount, we arrived on the committee as a team, we withdraw our adjustments to our budget. 137. Otherwise, it was very good at the end that we could find the amount that was closest to what we could measure correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u3	Mr. President. This suggests that 50 million would be spent working on local selection because of the construction of a new land hospital in a new location. The primary objective of this recommendation is to ensure that funding can be initiated on the implementation of independent and professional localised analyses at a new hospital. It is expected that the start will be on February 1 and that the task will be carried out independently by professionals who have not been involved in the project in the early stages. A professional statistical analysis is needed to get it straight where it is most practical and best to build a new national hospital. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u4	Mr. President. What is most concerned when this new government begins is the old - fashioned thought that it appears to be in its midst that a new national hospital will be established at the Ring Road, no matter what happens after 15 to17 years of silence on any other option. We believe, and others, that it is not just right but an obligation to build a new hospital in a better place. It will save the government for the future large sums of money. This will prompt us to carry out the necessary new national hospital. We believe that it is quite serious to say if this proposal is made and this case continues because the voice of reason has to be heard in this matter. Evidence suggests that a new national hospital should be in a different place from the Ring Road. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u5	Mr. President. We've seen a lot of strange things from the automates of the board today, but nothing as strange as the position that appears at the end of the day. Congress with this proposal is the forward party's members. In a two-way campaign campaign, both 2017 and 2016, that this would be done as suggested here - and here the entire Congress party votes against this. I'm aware of that, Mr. President, to the highest degree. I'm sure the secretary of finance is strange to see that the government's situation does not vote the same in this matter, but it's because the government groups have their own policies. V.E.G. Secretary of finance may at some point try it, have a policy, not will the advance party do it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u6	A respectable president. It takes me longer to get up in a pit when I have to vote in the chair, it's such a long way. This adjustment is about a full - scale supply of the health - care system. We've been talking about the money proposals here and what kind of confusion they are and that reserves are to be taken up before everything's gone down and they need some extra cash money. In effect, a reserve needs to be available. First, it is obvious that the quality of the health system should only begin to finance the medical reserve at its disposal. We can doubt that we're at the zero, we've seen analysis that says we're gonna end up in the minus in business, and at least we're gonna need it. Product funds to be available for action. I think it's a very modest change. It's not a medical operation, it's just that the safety grid is being kept in place, if that happens, for example. in medicines and medical products that have advanced in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u7	Mr. President. Here is our final attempt to improve a system that has been called by many of the classes in this room for improvement. As a result, this is our final attempt to find the welfare of the VG class. Of course, I know how this vote goes, but as I could before, I'd like to use this opportunity and challenge the members of Congress on the left greens and other groups to keep their big words about improving these systems. We cannot let the years pass by one by one, leaving those most sensitive categories behind, including poor children, and young people trying to cover their heads with a roof. Then let us stand at the big words that, as I mentioned earlier, are not older than seven weeks of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u8	It is scheduled that there will be a break in the conference between the clock. 14 and 15.30 today before lunch and meeting in committees. Furthermore, the president makes it known that there is an agreement that today meetings can last longer than any political body, and until the discussions on the program are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u9	To answer, Prime Minister, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Minister of Justice, Transport and Foreign Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Marine Elimination and Agriculture Ministers, Transportal, Industrial and Neony Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u10	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister and the government have made a great contribution to support the Council. In fact, it seems that this government was not merely formed as to the cooperation of the three parties and his government covenants. Rather, it was a political treaty specifically called the Communion Convention. However, the growth and new practices have now taken little advantage of them. We have not seen them reflected in the selection of the committee committees, and we have not seen it reflected in the way cases have been handled at the council, to form in terms of the potential for less parts to come up with, or to indicate, adjustments. In fact, the smaller part has this time, I think it's safe to follow the story, to demonstrate new tactics. I don't think that in the past any government opposition has shown as much cooperation as the present memory of things. There has not been much discussion about the President's conference board or the filial situation in spite of the government's difficult situation that is coming in here with a very large case, of course, the budget bill remains, at the last minute. The smaller part has been willing to cooperate with the government in different ways than it already was. My left movement was in a position of government. That's why I ask, Mr. President is the highest. Will the prime minister be prepared to encourage members of the administrative body today to vote according to their convictions? It's the highest. Will the prime minister be ready to encourage the members of the Commission to comply with a constitution when it comes to laying down funds and evaluating each proposal simply from the content of the proposal and the individual's assessment of that proposal, not from any instructions given by the administrative body?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson questioned. I'd like to start by saying that I've had a very good partnership with why. A senator or some other man. The members of the council's stand for the rest of this council, so I view the cooperation here at the council as a success. I hope so. A senator would agree with me. I'd like to point out, too, because of that. A senator mentioned the committee's mention that other committees have not been led by opposition for a decade. I'm glad the government decided to accept an invitation to lead committees. I think it matters before the council. I'm pretty optimistic that we can cooperate at the council. But I've always held it up like a dog. A senator would agree with me, I know because I've heard him say so many times, of course, that cooperation at the council is not a matter of failure or disagreement. It's not that we stop having disagreements at the council, because we could, in fact, ignore being in different categories. I don't think so about it. Councilmen, no government, no opposition, will need any encouragement from me to comply with my constitution. I just think it totally by themselves that they do and vote according to their convictions today as ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u12	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. The prime minister has been describing it here, and the minister will correct me if I am mistaken, that she considers it normal and desirable, even necessary, that members of the council, like members of my section, vote today according to their convictions, not according to some directives from the greater part. Thus, when there is a revised proposal from the government opposition, especially the budget bill, each member of the Parliament, including one member of the board, has the right to vote as it seems to be. It's good to know, Mr. President, for then we can weigh the votes of each senator according to that. Each senator has the freedom to vote exactly as he or she thinks it is right. And let us examine the votes that follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u13	Mr. President. I appreciate all votes at the Council from now on, as I hope it will. A senator and a former chief. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, did and did at all times when serving that office. I think that's what we're talking about. Parliaments who support this government can be very proud to support the budget in which the budget is greatly increasing to the basics most debated for the last election. I would especially like to mention health care, since public donations go up to 8.5% of GDP, which is in line with the goals we are making. Every senator has said that we support him. I'd like to also specifically mention contributions to the education system, so I have no doubt that they are. The members of the council here who are going to vote on the budget can support these suggestions proudly and see how we are building a social infrastructure here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u14	Mr. President. Fewer and fewer families enjoy child rearing here. The number of families has decreased by more than 12 thousand since 2013. In the north, and in many parts of Europe, the value of support for children's families has been overwhelming, but in this country their impact has been further reduced. It appears that this policy is to continue in the government under the leadership of the left greens, which suggest that by 2018, child reforms will begin to go far below the minimum wage. In fact, as the case of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir promotes more poverty among working people, much child damage is immediately reduced by low incomes. A couple both who have paid jobs but whose jobs are low get small child benefits here. This is one reason why poverty among children is greater than that of childless families. It is a well - known fact, and the only thing to wait is that governments take sides that work. The one standing here has the highest. Prime Ministers and others in our classes spoke of a change in the boundaries of child damage to the faint ears of existing groups of left-hand greeners in the government. The question, then, is whether the government's leader, the Supreme One. Prime Minister, still speak to the government's deaf ears about the need to change the limits of child improvement, at least to aim for minimum wage. So, is there anything that would put you at the top? Prime Ministers agree that the changes in the less part of the improvement will not begin until the minimum wage is reached? And what's the situation, if she's somebody?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Child damages rise from year to year, but there is no systematic modification of the child's system. To be honest, I don't really think it's a very careful method of not looking at the whole situation at the short time we have to deal with the budget and income raise. I think it's much more important that we at the Council are covering the collective project of reviewing the cohesion of taxes and reform systems during the ensuing period so that we can make sure that to form housing support, which has also been a significant discussion here, will be most useful to the wages of young people, so we support them in getting roofs over our heads and taking political discussions about how we want to see our child development. Hv. One senator explains that the question is considered why it is not added. If I'm going to take a look at the suggestions why. The senator is quite right. A member of the body of elders who have contributed a significant increase in expenses in addition to the much increase that has resulted in social infrastructure in the bill we are going to issue today. If I remember correctly, the Conspira has spoken about the election that in the terms of the season there would have to be an increase of 40 billion here to achieve social stability. During this brief period of time, we talked about 40 to over 50 billion dollars. However, the United States feels that it is not enough that it will be done in two weeks to strengthen social infrastructure in this way but that it wants further expenses. The pressing question that has come to me, however, is, Where are the income sources made by the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u16	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prominently, the prime minister chooses to kill matters. A prime minister who had time to make all sorts of changes, as we have seen in the days before Christmas, both great and small, but that is not a time to make changes that benefit the poorest family in the country. There's no time for that. Can we all agree that initiating cutting down a minimum wage is an unfair system, and the first step in review should be to change that standard? The government would show and send a clear message that the benefit of children in Iceland should be improved if she would take this step and also give a clear signal that this should change the practice. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities spoke of child benefits at the dresser contract table. Is it really so great? The prime minister recommends that people at the lowest wage do not qualify for minor compensations? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Will the government thus stand on the same side of the bargaining table with the professional drivers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u17	Mr. President. It has been clearly stated that I call for the good cooperation of all council groups on how we want to continue developing the improving systems and the tax systems to ensure a better state of earning groups, especially when it comes to housing, and how we want to develop child reform systems. Change of practices is called for. Yes, I call out that we take time to do such work, but we're not in the crackling bitch with suggestions that are supposed to be done in a very short time and that we're looking at the fact that this is going to be an extra charge for important social projects, except. A senator disagrees with me about strengthening the health, education, and so forth. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u18	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u19	I believe we have a responsible economic regime, which is why. A senator has also spoken for, and we look at how we increase our expenses to the classes we prior to now, health and education, and we have a conversation, as I already have answered. A senator on what we're going to do - this has to do with the economy. [[Answer the question.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator may be more inclined to explain and review the domestic income proposals made by the United States. [[Up front.]] [[Up in the hall last year.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u20	The president makes it clear that there are rules to discuss at the council Hall. There is only a short time for both questions and answers. This is most useful when speakers each receive a good sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u21	A respectable president. I went over the figures yesterday and let myself take a little bit of purpose based on the fact that the left movement is in the government, and also because there are five categories supported by the minority of the Economic and Business Committees, i.e. The restoration, the Central Party, the United States, the Pirata and Flocks, a total of 28 people, to the adjustment proposed by the reduction in child care support, i.e. that child damages not far below minimums. I think I know, and I know it's a plan, that if it wasn't for the state of the VG and the Independence Party and the forwards, VG would support these suggestions. I'd at least be It's a wonderful surprise if it wasn't. And then, if so, in that dream world, 39 people would be more important for the proposals of my share of the Economic and Business Committee. From that appear to be, you would think, more at the Council for making that change. I call attention to the fact that the change is costly; this is not much of a sum in connection with budgets. In fact, the Union could be released, or the Piranha or the Central Party, and there would still be more to the case if VG were involved. I think it is more material for the suggestions, but the political community is no more. When I'm at the highest. A minister has been asked if she would support child improvement in the way this has been described, she has answered that if I understood correctly, there was something interesting about the practice. But I would like to ask, " Does that not make it useful to keep the work of government? ' The new vote will be highest. The prime minister and left greener when suggested not to keep the government work together? Second, I would like to ask: When we have had a little more time for the next budget and the next discussion, will the government, under any circumstances, vote for a smaller item, in this case or other?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The government and the government have put their emphasis on budgets. I would've thought everyone was asleep. Councilmen should agree that the issues that are specifically being considered in this year's budget are about the issues that were at the top of the public's priority, and to form a group of members. A senator, Pirantar, has been very powerful to point out, i.e. The health issue, that they should have the highest priority, as has been repeated in surveys. And then, the educational issues that have been neglected but that are not only about the future but, of course, huge equal issues. It's totally on my part that there are a lot of good benefits that I would like to continue doing on the system. Hv. A senator here mentions child welfare, and I agree that we need to look to how we can strengthen that system. But I'm also very aware that we can't do all good things at once, so we can't do all the good things at once. A senator asks me what my votes are behind, so it's that I'm holding the suggestions that I consider responsible and good and reflect a clear priority on how we want to build up the social infrastructure. This does not mean that we will continue to build up that wood, the nature of the matter, so in itself I do not think much news in my answers to any inquiry. Senator. Hv. A senator asks: " Will there ever be a future chance of supporting my share's suggestions on something? That was the question, wasn't it? Senator? [[Up front.]] Yes, of course. I have personally spoken for proposals, especially I would mention that I fought for a case of thin self - payment and repeatedly recommended it during the council. Eventually, it was taken into work at any point. For example, at the time, the Economic and Business Committee became a law of 2016. I know it only as a member of my body that my suggestions have been accepted, so, of course, it is possible. But it is important that we try to reach work within the council committees, especially in larger cases, so I can only answer yes to the senator's question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u23	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Minister says there's not much news in this answer. However, there is talk of a new work ethic and the highest. Prime Minister mentions 2016. I myself have as a member of the Parliament a minority of my ideas at times here and there in my Senate work, but it was also in the 20133/4016 environment. If we want to see a new strategy, it's probably something we want to see done differently from what we've done before, that must include the meaning of the words. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of each new business. Of course, on occasion the minority council manages to get more involved, but it is always dependent on somehow that more parts can also take responsibility, put their name on it, offer their own suggestions. And if it's part of the motion of the greater part, everybody knows it when they vote, press the green button, and otherwise the red button. It's the pattern that I've always seen so far in financial terms, absolutely, I've never seen it happen differently, either during this term or another. [[The president calls.]] For child reform suggestions - these are costly. V.E.G. A minister noted that we need to look to how we can strengthen that system. [[The president calls.]] We know it's not even complicated. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister should support this matter and should have no problem doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u24	Mr. President. The new line of work. Of course, a senator speaks of the work being done within the committees mentioned earlier. It's been quite different in recent years, and that's what I can do for myself. A senator no doubt also knows from his professional employment experience that there have been very different forms of work within committees. I believe it is important that the committees have just taken this discussion. As a result, it is normal to make arrangements for a discussion within the committees. As a result, there is also the possibility that in terms of financing and other funding proposals are being made. There's a word for it. I'm sure a senator with the rest gone and turned aside his goals, and we just don't agree on that economic objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on the subject of child development and, in particular, growth reforms. In fact, at the highest protests, it can be understood. One prime minister in previous requests that the economy or the management of these budgets wonder whether there will be an increase in financial support. This is somewhat special, considering the increase in cost of nearly 60 billion per year, and here is a recommendation from a smaller portion of about 3 billion additional to this important support system for the most efficient public groups that have been used in the use of probes for financing. Now it seems that it is not possible to do so because the economy will be left on its end, which is quite surprising. It is even more surprising, though, to hear the highest stand. Prime Minister for these suggestions on their subject, i.e. that the systems must first be reviewed before support can be increased or actually maintained in the relatively stable support of the most efficient groups in society. The systems are a trial. We know what it takes. The problem is that they have been decomposing, so they do not provide the lowest income groups in the community that they once had. It's, for example. very simple in case of growth reform. Deforestation in the property of the growth reform system has remained unchanged for a decade at the same time that real estate prices have doubled. People don't eat their property in their homes. That is why it is very interesting to hear the highest stand. Prime Minister: Does it feel that there is no need to maintain comparable support to the most important groups of harvest workers? Is it really so that economic management will go next only to maintaining stable support between years in view of the great increases in real estate prices and real estate values?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u26	Mr. President. I quoted earlier as saying why. Harðardóttir She was concerned that economic management had become irresponsible with the huge expenditures being added to her financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u27	These suggestions were financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u28	We've got a little child support up here. Children's improvement is being increased from the bill as it is. A senator stood as the highest. Social Affairs Minister a few months ago, so what? A senator should be glad that child - rearing is being raised from his own proposal, a few months old. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator mentions improvements. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had a fine talk about them in the fall, where he quoted exactly what I've said here, that he had started a job to reexamine these systems that are good. I agree with that. A senator and he should be pleased that we will continue to do what was at that time. But it's not. A senator agreed that it is important to review the support that has been criticized in recent years to be far too fragile and not be useful to those who should? It has been concluded, and it has repeatedly pointed to the work of members of the Senate on these matters, that government housing support has been broken because new housing techniques have been adopted. We can review the correction, we can review the special savings system, we can mention the growth reform system, we can name the house repair system, and the credit system. This has been criticized by those who have come to the council that the supporting system has become fragile and is not useful to those who should. Is it not reasonable, then, to expect us to make it a system more general, making it the most useful to those most in need?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u29	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that it is important to review these systems and that when I served as a minister, I had already started such work. But I also had previously said in the platform that it was one of the main weaknesses of the budget bill proposed in the fall that nothing was done in interest of growth and that it was severely affecting the support of low income groups for property reasons that would have been kept unchanged in the decade. Reexamination and commission will not help these people next year. Therefore, we have made a relatively simple suggestion to increase our attribute, costing about 1.3 billion. In fact, we also offered suggestions to finance them. They were cut off by the greater part, so more things must be responsible for this economic effect. I ask again: Is there no need to help the most efficient groups in the next year during the review?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u30	Mr. President. I just want less of it. A senator owns what he said when he participated in a budget talk as the highest level. A few months ago, social and equality minister answered when it was criticized that interest rates do not show up on the financial bill he did then, so he especially wanted to look at the property trade route and look at it for an increase. [[The point is, he's asking you.]] No, he's asking about growth improvements, not special savings methods. So it sounds like it sounds like it's coming. By then a senator has changed his mind and might feel that it is more likely to increase the growth pathway. I'm happy to see that if the conference debate is to produce only changing political lines in housing support. At least... [[Who's...?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u31	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u32	I'd like to look at it as I've repeatedly observed in discussions about it, I criticized the most special part of my life. A senator in particular promised a few months ago that he would not use the most needed person, i.e. She spends most of her time with the earner than with the earner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u33	Mr. President. I would like to direct it to Mr. President to try to find out what is in the chairs the prime minister sits in because they seem to be the object of answering questions and refusing to tell the truth as they sit in those chairs. Whether this was the case with a former prime minister or the new one who preached a new method of activity and often came here and criticized the exact same thing. I remember Fischer and Suschi's due match when Fischer wanted his chair checked. I think it would be right to get the same party to view this chair as the highest. Prime Minister sits in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u34	The president now does not see what Spasskí and Spasskis has to do with the President's conference board. [[Up front.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u35	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister quoted my opinion, probably from the Economic and Business Committee, because that's the only opinion I've ever written, already the highest. The prime minister was answering back. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, saying that I, as I understand, had spoken of overworked expenses and economic stability and something like that. [[Up front.]] It's wrong at the highest. The prime minister, and I believe, because she is a memoryless woman, that she has not read the opinion of the committee. Wait a minute. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to read the committee's opinion and then properly quote it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u36	A respectable president. I have never seen crystals so well in my discussion at the General Assembly how unhealthy the European Commission's relationship with the European Commission is with the legislature authority. I'm absolutely alone that we have to consider how that relationship is handled. It has a very negative effect on the appearance of the Generals when it appears, and I'm going to allow myself to claim this, that the more political issues are in effect, simply because political interests are particularly one particular party in the government, so that the group must vote against a vote which he under any other circumstances would agree, I dare say. I believe I know that class well enough to know, at least from the time I worked next to that fine category in 2013-2016, and certainly from talking to its supporters of a fine party. I think it's a long time for us to revise all the details of this relationship, and it's about the constitution and the Congress and how we work here, not just the details of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u37	Mr. President. I don't like the top. Prime Minister can come up here and lie under its cover... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u38	The president asks why. Senators guarding their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u39	Well, I'm going to argue with you, Mr. President. She says in a conversation with what. paritaprevir It was Oddný Harðardóttir's daughter that the Conspiracy did not provide any means of earning money to support its taxpayers. That's exactly what Group of Groups does and what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson in a 1st minority list, talking of increases in carbon charge, income-related resource taxes, increase in income from foreign tourists, increase in capital gain taxes, increase in revenues from banks, increase in resource costs, and intensified tax control. The Union's proposal to change expenses for increase is less than what the government is paying in its budget, and I say again: I don't feel proper at all. The prime minister does not say the truth here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u40	President repeats his recommendation to the point. Councilmen to guard their word. They must reason well on their own case if they make such a big statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u41	I read it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u42	A respectable president. In special discussions earlier this year, recently since then, I spoke to the highest. Prime Minister and gave three, four thumb rules, three especially for the board because it is in more parts, as I told them. They were that ministers would need to listen to and accept criticism, that ministers would need to answer questions honestly and indiscriminately, and third, that ministers would need to shoulder responsibility for mistakes no matter how we handle them. Fulfilling responsibilities is the most important thing. I don't think the discussion here in unsubstantiated inquiries will reflect it, especially rule two, that the minister will answer questions honestly and indiscriminately. So I don't feel good about it. So I would like to direct it to the Generals to consider the human aspects of a new job and try to do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u43	A respectable president. I want to make a point like that. 5th a.m. Northeast standard, Logi Einarsson. V.E.G. A minister later concluded her answer to me in that she assumed that I would then want to walk on the rest to finance the suggestions we were talking about earlier on the subject of child reform. There's one possibility. But there are also other possibilities, such as whales. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson Einar went over. On the contrary, there is no lack of ideas in the Pirates to increase the income of the state funds, but we have been criticized for making such suggestions regardless of what other suggestions have been made. I wanted to say that although we want to make these adjustments, it doesn't cut too far under minimum income, it doesn't necessarily mean that we want to walk on the rest. Other methods have been referred to to to to increase the income of the state's funds in return. This is not the kind of amount that it should be difficult, especially for the left movement ▪ green supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u44	Mr. President. I think people get pretty heavy around here, at least some of them. Senators, not all of them. I really don't want to do what I want to do. Councilmen have opinions. I pointed out only about earlier revenue proposals, and then I am referring not only to ideas torn in speech or committee opinion but to suggestions correctly presented. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, on the increase in carbon pay, has shown that other income sources have not been found. I won't let it be said here that I'm wrong. I'd like to quote the committee's opinion. paritaprevir A Harðardóttir of Oddný G., where less than 2 things warn of the plans of the Government of Jakobsdóttir Jacobdóttir, which involves reducing taxes and increasing the cost at the top of the economy, under the advising economy. I think it's part of the process we could get into here that we could do a little more careful about what we're saying. I want to say what. Marty's members that I'm not going to make any views about whether they want to walk the rest. However, I wondered if it was possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u45	Mr. President. This feature we were here for, unprepared inquiries, is part of the overall surveillance role and it could be legally legalized that in this section of the Convention Act on Information Ministers, 50. g., that the minister should submit the information available to him and have a significant significance for the council's assessment of the case. There's another part in that case, but after all, shouldn't the Minister be telling the truth in here? Is it not clear that in uncivilized inquiries, a minister puts forth earnest effort to tell the truth, and if he is told that he is wrong, that is merely correct? I think it's clear, and if it's not really what it's all about, then we're worse than I thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u46	A respectable president. I just have a little request to the highest level. President. We've already seen it from the discussion today --
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u47	Discussion of queries has been completed. We have a discussion about the President's conference board and it is not appropriate to ask questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u48	Mr. President. I realize that, this is not a request for the government, this is a request for Mr. President for the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u49	Well, it's just like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u50	Yeah. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We have already seen it today, and this is the introduction, Mr. President, that the location of the Ministers of this government in various matters depends entirely on where they sit. But the same may seem to be true of Mr. President. This is what I was going to ask Mr. President. He mentioned that there were some specific guidelines for being moderate in word choice of words by members of Congress. These are new criteria, other than those that have been laid down for the past 30 to 40 years, the time of the highest. Is it true that the president has been at the General Assembly and has had many words on the platform? Has anything changed in this reference, now that Mr. President is seated in his present chair?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u51	Hv. Senator. It is unusual that presidents ask men to watch their words, and that is what has been done here. The man standing here as President has often received such comments from a president over the years, so there is nothing new here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u52	Mr. President. I get it so much. Prime Ministers have taken the criticism of an irresponsible economic management, which involves not raising taxes, so hard that it cannot raise child support. So that's why. [[Up front.]] When such evidence is used in response to growth and child support for the worst in Iceland, I feel like I'm at most sheltered by the chairman of the left-hand green and the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u53	Mr. President. There is an example that the president has told members of Congress to guard their words if a senator has told them that a minister was lying. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was involved in what took place when Konráðsdóttir, the daughter of Koná, was president of the country. But there is a very dangerous president of a council member under these forces, telling him to watch his words when the senators are here to supervise stewards, including those of the United States. monitors that a minister is not lying, that a minister is not hiding information. That's a very dangerous use of the authority of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u54	A respectable president. This has been a well - informed debate on how members of the Parliament should or should take a position on a schedule that will soon take place in which various adjustments will be taken, both in budgetary and income sources. It is the fault of the entire discussion that there seems to be no changes in child reforms next year. However, the fact is that in the bill that will be taken up afterwards, an 8.5% increase in the control height of children and a 7.4% increase in income targets is proposed. This will be done during the pressures of public pay next year. The overall rate of paediatric exposure will be about 10% higher next year than in the current year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u55	Mr. President. Now we have governments and the rest of us the opportunity to do a little relief on the approval of these bills that are available here. Government proposals are based on a very weak income base. Instead of earning money, waste should be used for education, health matters, and things that are good, but what gets out of the way and shouts directly at you, there is nothing for elderly, desperate, children, or family members. But this is a small step toward that, and I'm asking all members of this body to vote according to their best conscience in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u56	A respectable president. You can't say that we can support the subject in the final vote, but we will, of course, vote on these adjustments. I just want to draw attention to it again and again that we can be expected to vote according to our best convictions, such as the entourage, the conviction which, while I remember, may be based on more than material things. In science, you should present certain prophecies and see if they can be fulfilled. That's how it predicted, for example. Einstein for a black hole, that's a big deal. You have to try the theories, test your theory and see if they pass the tests. I predict that the government parties will vote against all the proposals of my share and vote with all their own proposals. The smaller portion, however, will vote either with the motions of the greater part or not after events. And may this guess come to pass. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u57	A respectable president. I just want to come up here to thank you for the good deal that has been involved in this matter at the council. It's been two weeks since 1st. asked for the budget bill. It did not take longer than that, so one week later, a financial committee was able to return the case, and we voted after 2nd. And now, it's come down to the end of the term, two weeks after my story talk. It is obvious that in order for this to happen in two weeks, a good deal is needed during the council. There may be differences in the viewpoint of matter, but nothing happens if there is no agreement on progress. I thank all those who have been involved in this matter, the financial committees, the other committees that discussed related matters and a prime committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u58	Mr. President. The smaller part provides combined suggestions intended to support the process. young children's families, young people in this country. It is not to be a financial burden for people to have children, especially when we look ahead and see that the nation grows old, that more and more people get older and fewer, and fewer people will be there to work and to take care of older ones. We offer to make it easier for people to have children, making it easier to have them and to take care of them as well as the government to work for one of the highest objectives. A minister of well - being who is about to wipe out poverty, especially children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u59	Mr. President. The government's situation offers highly advanced suggestions, on the one hand, that child reforms will not start cutting off until 300,000 k. a month's pay to be minimum in 2018 and, on the other hand, that property limits due to interest gain increase by 5.2 million, although a higher increase would certainly have been justified. At the council, I call for a partnership on the two important issues involved in a powerful control device that works against social inequities. These are both highly effective control tools to counteract inequities, in order to increase the balance in society. I call for solidarity, that we consider the whole thing and agree that this is a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u60	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance in the past has shown quite extraordinary cooperation with this new government. Here we are finishing up new budgets in record time. Thank you very much. Minister for the thanks to the memory of the part. However, more than a portion of it now has the opportunity to show that there has been a limit for all the statements on the expansion of the II council. Not much has been done to show that every serious thing has been involved, but now it can and is determined by how the management agencies vote for change proposals from the smaller parts. On the contrary, they do not offer suggestions on how to achieve what has been common according to government declarations, common will for more part and less part of the council. We are not trying to put up a fight here, we are offering a good deal of suggestions designed to achieve a common will at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u61	President. We now have an opportunity to prove by our actions that we mean something with improved and better practice at the right time. General. I think it's safe to say that the government or the smaller part has tried to pay the street here so that all of it gets normal progress. I'll say the highest words. Secretary of finance in that context. Hence, it is rather sad that the administrative body does not intend to take any note of the balanced proposals made by the smaller section that has joined to contribute improvements in child care and growth. I feel very sad about it, but I still keep hoping that the vote will come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u62	A respectable president. There was a lot of debate over conviction and whether the conviction of people changed with regard to government or not. And it seems to me that just a year ago, in a committee list of greens, we're going to need a little child support. In the preceding year, left greener proposals made for child reform by 2.4 billion. Then left - greens showed that they wanted to raise their child - welfare. Now that left green is in the government, you can't raise your child's compensation at all. Then the poorest children in the country should be responsible for economic stability. Wait a minute. Senators of the left green here in the hall showing that you are this group of welfare that you really are. Make a vote with this suggestion, and you'll be pleased to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u63	Mr. President. A discussion of the so - called string has shown a will. legislators to improve and revise the improving systems, even in some cases moving the tax system to a greener direction. In some cases, however, there have been no reimbursement proposals for income backs. It's not going to be all of a sudden here, but the bill that hopefully is going to be approved is an excellent opportunity for this way of creating a better community here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u64	A respectable president. Taking care of these bills in two weeks is not necessarily a cooperative matter but a responsibility. The majority of the council has decided to accept the responsibility to handle this kind of budget, which I do not agree to do because it is really bad. But just as people take responsibility, so do they. I continue to call for responsibility on this subject. We offer suggestions for improving the growth of child development, which is, in fact, improving their systems as they were designed, toward what was originally put in place. It is now spoken of an increase of more than 10% and so forth, which is far from being the correction to be maintained if it is based on the way they were originally thought. At the same time, the political party financial system has been completely adjusted according to an established plan, which resulted in a 127% rise. [[The president calls.]] I think it's strange that at the same time it can't be fixed at the same time that has to do with the most commercialized people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u65	Mr. President. In unsupervised inquiries earlier, it was mentioned at the highest level. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that there had not been enough suggestions on how to finance the financial expenses proposed by the Conspiracy. I've been through this for a while. The committee's view contains all kinds of ideas, but they do not appear to be fully developed suggestions. I understood that it was true, I spoke to a member of the United States Congress there, which is this: Is it enough to have complete suggestions on how to finance and cover expenses? If that is what the prime minister is saying, it is good if that is enough to allow the change in the memory of the part to be accepted. If it is not enough, why not have a word with a prime minister about what that process would look like? What would that process look like in the way of my share with the revenue proposals and expenditures? What does it look like? While we don't know, people here are throwing up different ideas and accusing each other of - what would real cooperation look like? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be good to hear that from the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u66	A respectable president. Change of motion. 107 is taking on one of the worst cases I've ever seen in terms of Social Security Act, i.e. extending strength with your left hand and then taking it off a few months later with your right hand. This is done by making the strength for drugs and, as a result, their taxes. Then it is also used to reduce child - rearing, to improve growth, and to reduce many benefits. Who does that? So why not just take away this strength directly rather than fool sick and injured people and older citizens of this country? If this is the way it should be, I ask: " Why can it be done, and how can the council afford to treat sick and injured people like this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u67	A respectable president. Last night we talked about poverty in Iceland. I have to admit, it's the first time I've experienced a lot of harmony. In this room, I experienced that we could all agree to be ready to help, just in fact, improve the interests of those who are discouraged in society. Now, when we're putting up an effort to cut off children's benefits only - I don't believe that everything that is going on here really is something that no one can take, that we can't agree to come together anywhere we stand, be friends and work for our people, work for our people, and do it with dignity. [[The president calls.]] I challenge all of us to do our job, I challenge us to do good things for our society and do them now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u68	A respectable president. It has been said of good work in this financial debate. It is true that the government has worked hard to reach a street where possible. Here, however, we are humbly making adjustments in the process of child making and ensuring that these systems will maintain their minimum support for the most efficient groups of society in the next year during their review. It has not been the smallest effort on the part of these matters to find out what these suggestions say, what could be done to help them progress. We have provided proposals for their funding of over 3 billion that have already been dropped by the greater part, of the majority of which turn to car property and turn away from plans to lower carbon pay from what was in the previous bill. It's just a sign of priorities for this greater part, and it's sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u69	Mr. President. I hope we'll pay soon for a vote called a bandorm, which is part of our budget bill, and we'll have to look at it collectively. I wanted to thank you for your cooperation. A financial and business committee where I'm sitting for the first time, thank the Chairman. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, for managing this work well and thanking good cooperation with both the management and the opposition. I feel that we have had some meaningful discussions on this committee, but it is also necessary to say that time is short - lived. I suppose that over the next few years, we will have more time to discuss matters a little better, and we will review them better, assuming that we are more likely to achieve some solidarity on the committee's proposals. Of course, all of us in this hall know that here we do not take our stand on specific suggestions that are contrary to the total structure of the budget. When discussing child - welfare, it is important to keep them up - to - raise - just to increase them more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u70	Mr. President. Sounds like a big argument in the middle of nowhere. Directors for not supporting modest changes from the smaller parts are the lack of suggestions for financing. I just point out they're the same as before. Congress officials were not in trouble with voting with the highest votes. Governments, not financed, were only walking over the rest of the budget that had been planned in September. It should not be implanted for people. If there was enough reason for what to do. Generals to put their finger on the green button to bring in funding proposals here I wish that the president will interrupt these meetings while they are being prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u71	President. What I don't understand is why we can't just be honest with one another. If the matter is not to be taken into account in my account unless it goes through the committee, receive some part of the committee, and be brought forward by the committee, if what we offer in my part is really just doomed because it has not passed the correct procedure on the committee, then why are we doing this? Why don't we save each other's time and tax dollars, be honest with them, and just don't make any suggestions on the less parts because they don't stand a chance? Otherwise, it's so fake, it's so showy. I think, sorita, the most boring part of this job is to stand here in this pit and participate in some theater. Let's just make a decision. We no longer make suggestions, for there is obviously no desire to accept them. Don't we just have to find some other way of doing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u72	A respectable president. There's a short time to talk, so I'm going to add to the third thing I had to say about it. Well, we've been getting a little bit out of the discussion here, what the reasons are, at least. the majority of the items that do not intend to contribute to changes in growth and child-making. They are, in fact, economics, income may oppose, etc. But when it all comes down to paying a vote on these proposals, I would like to hear from members of the council whether they are in accordance with the laws but cannot vote for this time for economic reasons, but perhaps later if economic reasons allow. I wouldn't be surprised if people said, "It's a normal adjustment proposal, but we can't go into it now because of some external economic reason where priorities were different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u73	A respectable president. I waited until the end because I wanted a respectable president to take his stand on the request from time to time. paritaprevir "Oddju G. Oddný Harðardóttir of taking a break at the meeting, "if that's what it takes to improve the situation, "so the top management sector can accept, at least There are enough within the store to support the case, to present suggestions on a magazine, which I suppose the memory part would likely work together. If it adjusted the matter and changed my vote, I feel responsible, at least to account for the failure of that request. It's not noon, we've got quite time. It wouldn't take long, but, of course, I'm not gonna start telling a respectable president what to do. I miss taking a stand on that request, so it is clear why it is rejected in view of the seeming fact that it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u74	3rd. the issue of the program is over and therefore no further adjustments will be made. The matter is final, and it will not be transformed. As a result, there is nothing wrong with going to that vote and starting with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u75	Mr. President. The adjustment proposal here paid a vote for is very simple. It is about correcting the legal requirements of income taxes, to consider various forms of support, especially to the poor and desperate people, who earn money, but for the sake of genuine cost. Considering them as income leads to the entire social security system being affected by a number of credit groups. That's a lot of injustice. These are not substantial amounts of money, as I explained in my introduction. I got it. I got it. Councilmen are eager to support this adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u76	A respectable president. I love to have the mob of the people at the council to point out these things. I think what's suggested here must be some kind of handmanagement in the law, I think it must be some sort of mistake, some thoughtlessness. I find this suggestion very good from Floki the people. Of course, it rests entirely with me. In fact, a co-sponsor of the motion itself. I also think it is proper to mention that there are a lot of overexcited things to the social security system that we should add more emphasis on, give more attention, and be especially glad that we have here a group that puts this emphasis on correcting the many problems in the law. I second the suggestion and suggest that someone from the greater part do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u77	Mr. President. This is a slight step, a tiny effort to meet the children and the worst in society. Left greens, together with the United States and other groups, have spoken a great deal of it in recent years and must support it. So I encourage individual members of the board to accept this, and especially I direct my words to my neighbors in the left green to live up to their name as a welfare group. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u78	Mr. President. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter suggests that now that we're in the blues, child reforms are less than 242 of you. K. per month. In the smaller part, we suggest that this limit of decline be extended to the minimum, to 300 fars. K. per month. It's a moderated proposal, and we can afford it. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u79	Mr. President. The Translation of Iceland report from August on the tax burden of wage workers in 1998-2016 contains a striking analysis of how the child - welfare system has weakened in recent years. The suggestion presented here is, as the last speaker mentioned, moderation, and responsibility. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u80	A respectable president. Children's families are fleeing the country because of their poor dressers to other places that offer them a better standing than we do here. Young people enjoy less ideals than their parents for the first time in decades. This alone should give us much thought. Our generation is worse than the generation before us. Here, the smaller item suggests one step toward improving the ideals of young people, improving the benefits of lost ones, and improving the interests of poor children in Iceland. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u81	Mr. President. There's no increase in child reforms between the bills. There's no entrance left greener in the government when it comes to child reform. This proposal costs less than a waiver's pay on carbon. It will be a small matter for the left green to vote with some 670 million to farm. It's going to be a small deal for this greater part, but it would be a big deal for this same group to put here a small amount of potential damage to the child - welfare system. Once again, the poorest children in this country are to bear the burdens, responsibility for the economic stability. It's obvious that the left greens were not at the council to say no to child improvement, but yes. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u82	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking for the discussion that we are having today and yesterday was also about people's situation and poverty in general. I would also like to reiterate what I said in yesterday's discussions, and in the government's administration, I want to reexamine support systems, both child reform systems, and growth reform systems, with special emphasis on the consumers and young people. I'm glad it's in a Senate Hall to get to that job, it's been described. Last night I wrote a few discussions that I wanted to have a good look at and cooperate with the council when that work started. So, as soon as I say no to this proposal, I welcome them the desire of the government and members of the council to arrive at work, which I said yesterday, will be started right away at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u83	A respectable president. In recent years, there have been considerable increases in pay, and this is also true in the year 2017. This has led to the lack of the amount of money we planned for child reform in 2017. For this reason, the new government suggested that we raise the reference height by 8.5% and the pay centres by 7.4% for child reform next year. This will make sure that actual child reforms are going to rise by 10% between years. Of course, when discussing a child's position, we need to take the overall picture into consideration. In the past few years, we have been able to improve the ideals. It is quite wrong to say that the previous generations of young people were more successful. [[The president calls.]] We have never been able to ensure a standard of living the way we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u84	A respectable president. Here were a special discussion of poverty yesterday, and this correction of the child - reform system toward the way it was designed is, in fact, an adjustment to the problem of poverty. This will come to the very best place in life to live in poverty, e.g. those who are single parents. Take this seriously on the notes, if it's true what happened yesterday in the discussion of poverty, it's a solution that way. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u85	Mr. President. The poverty of thousands of children in Iceland is a serious social ill. The poor child family in Iceland is in desperate need of time, it doesn't need more time, it doesn't need more than that, it doesn't take more worry to correct this serious problem, which is the result of the administration of the former government, including Independence party, and the current government maintains. Let's show enough, and let's say yes when we vote on this adjustment proposal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u86	A respectable president. This is a suggestion that child development is not impaired in people under the minimum wage. Minimum is minimum. A minimum is a second word for what is lowest. No one should be under the minimum, especially poor children. Earlier today, priorities were discussed. The interests of poor children should always be priorities. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u87	President. That child damages such a small amount before once the minimum price has been reached is so insane that I don't understand it. I understand that the current government is raising child support a little bit, so it's gonna do a little better. But that's just not enough. It's supposed to be obvious to everyone. Perhaps not enough people here have experienced firsthand what it is to be a single parent trying to provide for children. But it so happens that almost everyone of my friends does. I know what it's like, and this little money is important. This has to do with the lives of children, that these children have the same opportunities as other children in the community. It matters. That's not very high. I know the government thinks it's a good thing to do by raising them, but it's just not enough. There should be no impairment of child support at 242 you. K. per month. That's not acceptable. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u88	Mr. President. My dear board of directors. How can it be natural for the world's 11 richest nation to live so badly for children and little children? How could it be natural for Iceland, the rich country, to cut down on child benefits that are to be supported by those with the least income? How can the government, advisers of the left movement, ▪ green supply, and others, at the same time, interfere with child damage at 242 levels? K. or about 480 yous. K. income for a couple. These are benefits for small children who have nothing. Do you really think it's okay to cut down on child support? We are making small adjustments so that benefits to children, poor children, do not interfere with income, total income, less than 300 of you. K. [[The president calls.]] How can you say no to that? Of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u89	A respectable president. We were here recently, just yesterday, talking about eliminating poverty. For example, when it comes to eliminating poverty, an answer is: Well, everyone should have the same opportunity. Some people say that enough. It is true that it applies to adults who control their destiny to a degree or to a degree. However, children do not. When children are poor, there is no opportunity for them to make use of them. It simply needs to be fixed. This involves supporting parents and guardians of children. That's what this proposition is all about. I find it shameful, and I was surprised to learn that child reform was so far below the minimum wage. I think it's really weird. I think it's obvious that we should fix it and, of course, encourage my fellow members who will vote to vote with this proposal. Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u90	A respectable president. It's one thing to talk about the peaks of the economy and the richest land in the world and how great it is, it just depends on what mouth it comes from because the fact is that not everyone has it as good. Here, some live under poverty. It is a perpetual shame that we sitting here will not be able to show our dignity in putting our children around everything, one of the most vulnerable groups in the community. The future of our country is our children. They're all supposed to sit at the same table. They too are to be happy that we are in the kind things we see today. Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u91	Mr. President. Child support comes with the children. You say no to the children, we're going to start cutting down the compensation we think is right for you, even though your parent's being under the minimum amount, although the parent can't even provide minimum income, we still need to cut your compensation. That's really what they're saying to the children of the country. I don't see that this government can simply live up to the first sentence of its well - being in the government covenant: A good society is a child - married society Not when they say to children: I'm going to start cutting down what you get from the state, which we think is right for you from the state, although the parent cannot even provide minimum income. This is specifically stated in the chapter "A collection of Opportunities: " The status of the poor, who live in poverty, is one of the most vulnerable groups in the community. ' This government can't keep it until this proposal here will be approved. [[The president calls.]] She's clearly not going to be accepted right now. You have a year to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u92	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a change form from the smaller section that's about a serious, important matter. This is important for children, and it is important for children. The case also represents a test of government's will to improve the interests of children, also a test of the government's will to cooperate with the smaller parts. The memory of the part will not remain in the system's overall review of these issues. But the complete picture and overall review of the overall picture does not provide much in the pocket of those to be needed. I have to reiterate my frustrations with the management of a new government. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u93	A respectable president. Here we have a child-improvement proposal where a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests a factor of 300,000. remuneration will be given to the unstructed pediatrics which are below those criteria. It is clear that we Icelanders have not supported children's families as well as the rest of the northern countries we've wanted to aim for. We've been a long way back. In recent years, the difference has greatly increased. In Iceland, child damages are much lower and far fewer than in countries where we have wanted to compare ourselves. This suggests a change in the direction to add a little more and support the poorest children. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u94	Mr. President. We here vote for another powerful, effective system over which governments have to work against inequities, which are interest improvements. House prices and real estate assessments have gone up a lot. Everyone's clear in here. However, the criteria to calculate the growth improvements have not been followed. This is merely a suggestion that property limits increase 5.2 billion. K. The total cost of that change is only 1.3 billion. This change will be most useful to those in the three low income levels. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter seems to me, and it sounds like he's going to say no to using that equation in 2018. That is a score when the government and the administrative body speak of an increase in the equation and to work against inequities when votes fall, as we see here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u95	Mr. President. The report that I quoted earlier on the tax burden of wage workers in 1998◯2016, sent out by ASI last August, shows that the support of the growth reform system has significantly decreased over the period covered and that the decrease was observed in the number paid for interest. In addition, Mr. President, the minimum earners of their own minimum, the criteria are 20% in housing, getting little or no support today through the growth reform system. It's got to make things right. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u96	Mr. President. The growing reform system has many flaws that we must first take in a complete way. This system is designed to help people buy apartments, but it may be contributing significantly to the increase in housing prices. However, the adjustment put forth here is a good addition and a good fixation of another defective system. We should say yes to it simply because there is no time now to fix the defective system, but there is no time to allow fewer people to suffer for it. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u97	A respectable president. It is so with this fine system that has suffered in the past decade under the leadership of others. The Independence Party, that a single parent in a moderate residence with a minimum share of 20%, was reimbursed by a third of its interest costs in 2007 but is not allowed to get anything today out of attributes, because at the same time the value of property has doubled to a name value. It is obvious that a review of this system is necessary and timely, but there has been a review of housing support, I believe all roads since 2013 at least. Such reviews do not help people to cope with their growing burden in the coming year. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u98	A respectable president. When we vote on our large improvement systems, I think it's important that we watch the big movie. The production of employment opportunities and increases in pay are fundamental. Also, childhood reforms are important, which we just voted for earlier. We'll pay you for it. in child reforms a year to a single parent with two children if another is under seven, and we are raising it next year. Here's where we go for the growth. The problem with today's housing market is mainly an offer. That is why it is true. A senator entered earlier that this may simply increase prices in the market if we add the demand effect. When we discuss the market, there is one that is always of the most important importance, that is to cut down the interest. We should spend more time discussing activities to reduce growth in the country and less time in discussing what we can do to help people pay interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u99	A respectable president. The camp loan fund recently analyzed growth reform status in the system as it is now. They say that 40% of interest is going to the top of the population's income. The growing - up system has simply gone wrong with whose interests it should serve. Yes, income has increased, but at the same time, the systems that are supposed to support those who are income - stricken have subsided. This makes it scratched by the increase in money, not enjoying it as much as it does in the middle and above. Of course, I'm saying yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u100	Mr. President. How could the government of Iceland want the worst, the worst, to wait for a year, wait two years or a whole term while some committee on its side is wondering how to change the system, change the growth reform system, and change the children's system? Why should those in this country expect to wait for a year or a whole term? How can that be justified? A body is called for solidarity at the council. Then the one listed here wants to call for government solidarity, the solidarity of all the people here working to assist poor people in Iceland. As a rich nation, we are to assist these people. Of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u101	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal. When it comes to the growth system, we need to consider that we do not contribute to everyone's growth benefits. They are designed to serve particularly those with less income and less possessions. That's the main point. This is an equation device, and although it does exist to reevaluate the system, we draw attention to the fact that there are hardly any systems here that are not being revised anywhere. It's getting very rough to make some adjustments without it coming up: Yes, it's a reexamination. I sometimes wondered if it would be easier for me to list what is not being revised than what is being revised in discussing the suggestions presented here, whether on a committee or at a council. I second the motion. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u102	Mr. President. The small change here suggests a simple correction of what appears to have been a mistake in changing the law of income taxes in response to Supreme Court in 2010, on the unsaid quality of loan insurance. It was assumed that interest that would be determined on credit due to overpaying of a successful loan would not be considered taxable and, as a result, would be restricted to capital taxes. For some reason, the time of this law was limited to the 1998 -2011 income range. It is suggested that this limitation be dropped, simply to protect the harmony and equality of the country's taxpayers. Then, of course, it is suggested that, according to the regulations of the law, there be a reimbursement of taxes, paying for such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u103	Mr. President. I can see from the vote table that there's some misunderstanding about what's being voted for. Here, we're paying a vote to cancel a worth tax on books. A book in Iceland is highly protected, as is known, and therefore the language. In a previous life, the highest. Secretary of finance, as well as the minister of finance, was taxing on books increased. At that time, a minister of education publicly declared that he thought it was very unfortunate, that was part of a larger tax change, and that it would later be revised and taxed by books. I agreeed with the local Minister of Education on that. Now it looks like the highest government contract. The minister of finance has come to believe that the price of books is to be taken off. And not later, please get on with it now, end it, cancel the value tax from books, including audio books and electrical books, and so on. I see that doesn't change anything on the board, Mr. President, the Ministers' position. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Were they not observing my speech about what we're paying votes for? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u104	V.E.G. President. It was noted in the past that worth tax was necessary to be canceled on books, but there was no suggestion on this subject, so we in the Central Party decided to save them and put it to work. During the conversation the other day, the person mentioned here said that he was willing to change his mind. There are probably more who do this now. It may be a health sign. But in this case, I don't think so. I express my frustration that governments do not support their own proposals. I think it's very strange, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u105	President wants to ask why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, whether he intends to support his own proposal. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u106	A respectable president. It was like that in a previous life. 1st Volunteer backed up the book tax, a prize tax on books. [[Up front.]] With me and others. But there was, of course, part of a general operation in changing the valuable tax system. What we're voting on here would be part of the category, a suggestion read out of the government covenant, made in the first days of a new government because it hasn't put it into effect yet. But that is to say that it is good to have an opportunity to discuss this matter. This is a very important thing. I'm glad there seems to be a wide support for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u107	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u108	We, who do not support the proposal and oppose this point, do so because we have a complete plan. At some point, this plan of reduction of worth taxation on these lawsuits will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u109	Mr. President. So it's probably a top-rated war fistula. The secretary of finance, since it is in accordance with the government policy, or at least part of it, especially the policy at that time. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. No matter where they come from, no matter where they come from. We understand that this may not have been possible before. The chairman of a number of economic and business committees to make this proposal himself. But we totally agree with what you think. Chairman of the importance of meeting the Icelandic media in the crisis of the important article for democracy in the country. And we also agree with the idea of which. A senator on the best way to do that, i.e. by canceling the cost of subscriptions, whether of magazines, TV, audio, or other Icelandic subscriptions. Mr. President. It's very hard for me to understand why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is going to violate the proposal he invented. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u110	Mr. President. Boyhood isn't. paritaprevir The winners of Davíð Gunollon's Gunnlaugsson are fun. But, of course, there is no doubt that by the end of a year, there is a decision to decommission a tax on a certain product and not to do it in the context of a government budget and a financial bill that is here to be taken care of. But I am glad in my heart that I have as powerful a team in this matter as we hopefully finish it in the coming year. Well, thank you for that, yeah. A senator, even though boyhood is behind him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u111	Mr. President. I just want to explain my vote, why I choose not to vote with this proposal. The media in Iceland are facing a tremendous challenge and need greater support than just the reduction of the cost of subscription tax. We need to examine it all. The reason I don't vote against this proposal is because this case is very important. That's a fourth power, and we need to get the media to help. They need to be lawbed at this point because of uncomfortable coverage of the highest. Secretary of the economy. They have to face various persecutions from those in charge of this matter. However, it may well be that we need to examine the whole matter, including the rest of the matter. ... witha reduction in insurance bills. [[The president calls.]] That's why I just don't say anything and I just sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u112	Mr. President. This case is just a reminder that salmon fishing is the exception of a valuable tax. The argument from the government tax manager back in 1990 was that salmon fishing was actually renting property, that it was not selling permission to catch fish, that it was renting property, and that it was the exception of a natural purchase tax, as you can see. For example, we can make it a matter of golf, in effect, renting property. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Every man sees golf is property, property, and you rent the property. As a result, if the government tax manager interprets it, we will be able to separate it from a worthwhile extra tax. It's just to remind you. Let's shut it down. There are 200 million in houses, just by people who get into salmon fishing to pay their taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u113	The president's attention is what. The senator will vote for his own proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u114	V.E.G. President. This was shown in a case of the highest order. Secretary of finance earlier that it was important to create employment conditions in order to earn a good salary. Where collective agreements are standing, the agreement to reduce insurance costs as financial and economic ministers and to the sector may only be signed in January 2016. That's what's suggested to be done in this suggestion. So I'm surprised to see that. The minister of finance is not going to keep his statement from earlier on, but there are still a few seconds that he can change his mind. Of course, this suggestion is a good suggestion that it will be easier to achieve a suitable collective agreement, both for the job and for the employee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u115	A respectable president. I'm just saying, what statement? What written agreement? I'm not going to argue that at the council, men lie, as was done here earlier today, but this is based on a fundamental sense of truth. No written agreement was made between me and the body of the industry, so the basis for this adjustment is totally out of the open air.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u116	Mr. President. I suppose employers will find an answer to the highest degree. The minister of finance is very interesting, that because of an agreement he made and was in all the media of his time, he does not have to keep it and neither does the government. [[Up front.]] This is an proposed agreement to help support the collective agreements at its time and thereby to meet companies, especially small companies, by reducing this tax on employment, the tax that is most likely to take on the small budgets, innovation companies making new valuables, tax raised because of the particular conditions that are currently changed. [[Up front.]] No longer is there any reason to justify this special tax on employment, much less innovation, so that small companies can grow and thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u117	A respectable president. I remember the campaign when politicians were put into a line and asked: " Aren't you sure you're going to cut the insurance? And they all said, Yes. I don't have the time to go over a funny story about Porta's ideas on this subject, but most recently it's been said that there wasn't any changes in our insurance fees, so I'm sitting by and it looks like my whole body's doing it. On the other hand, I'm probing the insurance bill myself. This, however, needs to be done in some smaller step, simply because of cost. I saw how much this cost me because I was thinking about making it myself. [[Up front.]] The cost of this proposal is my primitive calculation of 7.4 billion, which is just a little too large. If it was something much smaller, I could possibly be on the green button, but in view of this, I'm sitting by, but again, that charge to turn down and when people claim to be such a thing in a campaign to give people a chance to take it seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u118	Mr. President. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee will retract a two-way adjustment proposal. It is done to have agreed with the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture, who has made the decision to stop collecting notes in high school for the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u119	Mr. President. I'm glad you're bringing back this change. I myself could hardly believe that once a recent major education campaign was under way, they would be authorized to pay payment on industry students and employees so that they would have 300 million. K. The cost of college living in 2018 But I am glad that they have passed away, hoping that this will be the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u120	A respectable president. I'm glad that the right decision has been made in connection with the 2nd, is withdrawn. It is worth noting that this means that government funds have to be financed. Hv. The F.O. and Business Committee found out. The bill goes to 300 million, which is not much in the context. I understand it's been assumed to be financed. I don't know exactly how, but I wanted to keep it going because it's very important. If this change is made without being funded or assured that the funds will come, it will reduce the potential for school to offer up this study. I think there must be something no one in this room wants. I'm going to be optimistic about this financing getting along with that brief conversation I've had with another man. A senator on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u121	Although it was said in its own time that everyone wanted Lilja's orders, it is important that Lilja be handled properly. This involved Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, who wished to account for his vote or discuss the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u122	A respectable president. As we have seen, the government has decided not to collect certain material fees at the high school. Of course, this is a huge step in making high school free. The Matrix has been planning this for a long time. That is why it is especially happy that we are taking this step. We're also showing that we're serious about promoting industrial and national engineering. We have a clear view of the future in education. Of course, this operation is funded, and it will not reduce funding at high school. I'm really happy that we're taking this step, and we're definitely following the policies we've taken and introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u123	Mr. President. I just wanted to draw the attention of the U.S. Congress that this is the best thing that comes out of a two-hour long vote, that the government, the administrative body, should retract their own proposal. That's all that came out of this. Despite the efforts of the government or memory components to offer positive suggestions, including suggestions that governments had specifically declared support, the project was a positive one. But then he chose it. And prove, indeed, that here only votes are made by party lines, solely by government support or claim, but not by their own convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u124	President. I just want to express my special satisfaction that this vote for everybody is going to finish on such a positive note. I've been working for decades in advance of industry, and I've been talking very much about growing industrial and technical studies. There's been more talking about it than there's been a man doing something. So I want to celebrate this step in particular, that's very important. I really hope this is the beginning of the minister's path in speaking when it comes to engineering and technology. But I also want to use this opportunity and to sharpen it, for very often people have fallen into the pit of speaking and speaking but doing nothing. But I have full faith in the highest. Minister of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u125	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here for a vote in connection with the hosting of the citizenship rights here. Of course, this has nothing to do with the individuals involved in this matter, but I find the task all is impossible. The proposal is made in a General and Education Committee, one of the Committees there and one of us here, to make a decision on these matters together, no information other than names from which country is originally to come and when it was born. When you asked for information, there was little on the subject. I don't like this song. That's why I'm going to sit by this release and hope it's going to be moved to a more transparent and better way to go next time. And if I see that Hrafn Gunnarsson's Weekend is right behind me, let me mention that this structure is in a lot inconsistencies to form with the rich requirements that Pirantars make for transparency and practice in other matters and that attracts special attention to their writing on it as it has been in the past few years and decades, possibly now I don't know it. But this time, I'm gonna sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u126	A respectable president. The committee set out a procedure for human beings. It's true that civil rights law has flaws to fix. But after being on the Subcommittee myself during the last term, I can guarantee that the process will always be necessary, although it is not flawless, certainly not, because human society and human life are simply that it is not possible to take into account the general law on all the things that can happen to a person and affect the reasonable and essential treatment of its affairs. For the translucency point at base. Senator: Piratars also talk about privacy. These are very personal matters that involve very personal information. People's entire lives. In my opinion, it is most inappropriate to call on transparency when it comes to personal matters of that category. [[The president calls.]] The rules should be clear as clearly as possible. But the process, with its defects, is necessary at this time, and I think it will be very long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u127	A respectable president. In the United States alone, the Parliament's decision to establish its official contract for Iceland and the Faeroe Islands to fish in Icelandic and British jurisdiction in 2017. The contract was canceled in Reykjavík and Thors Harbor on June 2 and July 26, 2017. The contract provides a premonition that the fishing warrants of the ever-published Icelandic legislatures of 2017/018 will be conditioned that Icelandic ships are also authorized to fish on the coal mines and Norwegian-islenski documents within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands in 2018. This agreement has to do with the national rights of the land to fish on the surface fish of each other's jurisdiction in 2017. It also states that the contract is a fur-fisher of the Faeroe Islands in Icelandic jurisdiction for the trial of 2018. Intellectual ships are authorized to hunt 30 yards. trains of soft skin within the Icelandic novel on the furrows of 2017/2018, depending on the maximum amount of force allowed. In addition, British ships have the right to catch up to 10 fish. trains of fur in the Icelandic fishing law obtained by treaties in the French and Greenlandic governments. The contract also allows for a mutual warrant for the individual bodies to hunt the carbons and Norwegian-isd through the rest of the jurisdiction of the year. Finally, the contract assumes that Icelandic ships are authorized to fish on as many as 1,300 trains of macroil and two thoust. trains of herring, other than Norwegian-Sislen English, within a sophisticated jurisdiction this year. It should be noted that before this contract was made on the basis of the national contract since 1976 regarding the sources of the Faeroes to fish in Iceland's jurisdiction, it was decided that very poor ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish from Iceland in 2017. However, the overall power of cod will be no more than 2,400 trains. The total volume of a cone will not exceed 650 trains, and no hunting will be allowed on the hatch or in the window. It is suggested that the preemptives of the contract be established that contracts are caught by local ships on carbons and Norwegian-islenh plants within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands in 2018. In advance, Iceland's mono-sided declaration of the commitment of the contract will depend on the agreement that Icelandic ships are also authorized to fish in the carbons as well as Norwegian-islentic herring within the jurisdiction of the Faeroy Islands in 2017. Without agreement with the Faeroe Islands, Icelandic ships will not be authorized to hunt on carbons and Norwegian-islen fjords within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands in 2018. In recent years, Icelandic ships have given about 89% of their total resources to carbons within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands. This access, therefore, is an important part of Icelandic production. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u128	Mr. President. I'm here to present a committee visit on the budget for 2017. As indicated in the list of other parts distributed, there are only negligible changes between discussions, and I will then present it in the committee's opinion. In 2017, I am convinced that I will never again return to the political situation that has just taken place here. It can be framed by saying: This is where two federal objects worked to perform budgets for 2017, which no clear part of the Council composed and put. I think that it must be looked to with great reasonableness and see how the budget is being carried out in the particular situation that has been here in the past year. Yet, I would like to say that the overall result is that this is a closing of 2017 budgets with these very acceptable supplies, 1.7% of the rest of the gross domestic product, far beyond what the fiscal bill was approved here a year ago. According to the established financial policy, the target was about 1% left over, with an outcome of 1.7%. The more part of the legal committee, which is the political foundation of the bill, is attributed to what I have said here on this particular situation. On the other hand, I want the procedure to say, and the time frames that we often call the new laws on public financial matters - I think we need to get into the habit of speaking about the law as a new one, which are set in 2015 with a validation at the start of 2016 - that is not expected to be of the sort of situation that has been in politics that I've been in the past described. That law, in fact, does not assume that such instability is politics, in itself the task of accepting and discussing how to deal with it. Of course, it is far best that the government, along with its budget bill, will be adjusted by the current Parliamentary resolution of financial policy, as it should be done by the law, which is actually the basis for a new government - financial policy is her first matter, along with a financial bill - and also a financial plan for a five - year adjustment in a valid financial program. Of course, it did not have time for a government that took up November 30 to prepare for such a matter. Thus, the progress and implementation of the funds that we now change by means of a financial bill in that light must be considered. The committee discussed several factors and attended a guest mentioned in the committee. It contains, for example, Discuss the laws on government finance, which I have mentioned in the past, as well as financial contributions and their interaction and the use of reserves. The majority of them are down. The 2018 budget is discussed in a few words about the use of reserves. Hv. The financier did some research on the budget-based bill using reserves that are actually new and were for the first time in budgets for 2017 because of the laws now relevant to public finance. The review of the committee revealed that in itself the reserves laid aside are little to be used, 7.85 billion in a general reserve, and then less than 900 million. K. In the reserve of litigators. We, in the greater part of the legal committee, return to the Commission with funding laws that the use of reserves needs to be sharpened and explained, as we did in the Commission's panel on the budget bill before 2018. It is the opinion of the budget board that it is much better to identify the interaction between reserves and a financial bill and that this is necessary from now on. The greater part of the view is that the use of reserve funds has to be tested from time to time. Of course, we still have a long way to introduce these new laws and, as it were, normal childhood diseases. But for all of this I still want to stress that all of these work, and that the reserve has not been opened and put to the test before the fundraiser, that we are changing the current budget after two governments have sat down, there can never be an example in the execution and transport of funds that we address today. Just like the highest. The minister of finance, in his history with a fund - law bill, has made significant changes in the income of the state's funds. We will discuss this in our committee's program on recycling and recovery of the year. I had earlier mentioned that there is an increasing amount of waste here as a proportion of GDP. It can be traced primarily to government funds, higher remunerations, and cash pay from banks and property of the state. In terms of expenses, it is said that the largest and most important change from the current budget is due to the increased interest costs of the state's budget of 8.1 billion dollars, and is largely due to the financial expenses of the RIKH 18 loans, which were required to limit the financial value of the state. Long-term, the operation pays off with a reduction in interest fees. In December, the decision was also made to reduce the amount of cash that is currently an RIKB 19, using a switcher. The bill proposes giving the State's Penitentiary Fund, LDR, the Lindargoli ehf property. This arrangement was specifically discussed by the committee. During the payment and implementation of a judicial hearing on resurgence, the General stressed that a sunset law applies to the agency that took over an administration of assets that were paid for insurmountablely. A greater proportion of the committee feel that this move is in accordance with its original objective and that LS interests are not threatened. Covered assets are appreciated by the RSR holding collection, both share money and extended loans. ALS have crossed the assets and evaluated them for the overall wealth of the fund and for whether they are in his investment policy. In view of Lindahingol's administration, it is neither convenient nor acceptable to serve the State's interests by selling them at the moment. This does not mean, however, that they are completely unsuspecting. Part of the property is an outstanding loan in which, in most cases, the end date is short, so it is considered better to wait on the sale with the goal of maximizing the value. Other assets, such as stocks, are appreciated by the fund. NEVER, unlike Linda, which has a limited period of time, is dependent on no time limit in its attributed county. Much of the appeal is believed to be in line with its original objective and not to be threatened by LS interests. It is reminded that the state of the pension commitments of the B-part fund will continue. On the other hand, most of the initiatives in the bill can be attributed to changes in expenses that were inevitable during the year. The more money on social security is available, for example. mainly due to an increase in disability. There is also an increased request for information on the rightness of the individual. The financial committee, who served in the early part of 2017, followed up with a financial follow-up, sent a letter to the Justice Minister on the basis of the prospects for the development of expenses for the affairs of immigrants and refugees. The response of the Ministry to the letter of the budget was clear and clear and had to take decisive action. Thus, additional expenditures were met and the Ministry's response to reviewing the protocol and implementation of the jury was accompanied by a review of regulations. The cost of the project was underestimated by the budget of 2017. This is the main reason for this conclusion of the year on the budget bill, and the Ministry has responded. The bill for financing for 2018 calculates additional donations confirming this lack. The bill suggests about 550 million. K. Pay to the National Church, to maintain an agreement for churches. The majority want to reiterate a statement made in a committee study on a budget plan last spring, showing that the greater part wanted the communication between Church and State to be better established. Today, uncertainty does not guarantee the independence of the church and of any desirable religion. The church meeting is just one facet of the relationship between Church and State, another factor being carried out in the renovations of church fees. Drug and relief expenditures have been too often above financial resources in recent years. Now, it can be said that there is an unusual variation from current financial laws, which is a significant increase in sources of funds. The greater part is thought to have a much larger priority on the project, and it is planned to follow these issues much more closely in the new year. However, such spending will continue to be somewhat uncertain. In the past year, problems due to the price of exported goods have been particularly difficult for the sheep and farmers involved. The losses resulting from the European Union's commercial war and Russia have resulted in a significant decrease in income, but the commercial war is a result of political decisions that provide certain grounds for failure. The sheepfold is an important support to rural development, and its weak status has a major impact on the development of communities, growths, and the ability to support social bases where we live. Sheepfolds are particularly sensitive in certain areas of the country, and in a Treaty on the working conditions of sheep farming since 2016, the particular value of the article for specific local laws is emphasized. According to a specific analysis of the Agency, certain areas have been identified as additions to the general working conditions established by the Convention. Specific measures for specific areas are rooted in the AlCollis emphasis on the payment of stock agreements since 1995. The Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, emphasizes the need to deal with the problem and its consequences. Here is a provision to respond to a crash and work on the restoration of the article. The majority of it is that the terms of the budgets underlines the severity of the existing position and that the decision for action must no longer be delayed. It can work against bankruptcy and urban disorders. Other measures other than those directly involved in farmers are intended to improve in the long term the sector's work management and thus the strength of its population. With the initiative of a marine eco-efficiency minister, with the exception of the discussion and the reviews of the proposal, the majority of the legal committees have proposed a measure of change in the budget for the procedure. In addition to the budgetary bill and the major change, this section is also a comprehensive chapter that can be said to be a result of the altered law on public finance which is involved in the possession of government funds which I am not the reason to trace, but it is clear that many of the practices, such as I have previously attributed, are being carried out by public funds and the changes that are going to take place and into better place. ... howwehaveauthorityoffinance which is now expected to be carried out by the government's companies and institutions. In the end, I'm going to give you one more adjustment. First, a suggestion is 17 million. K. ... toTheU.S.A. election Study. Due to the early total elections of October 28, financial and data collections were not guaranteed. The study includes an observational scan among voters, conducted after each election from 1983 until 2016, among future candidates from 2009 and during the 2016 election campaign. Finally, significant transfers due to reevaluation of expenses are provided primarily by the kroner gangs at any given time. It is suggested that the European Union's strong office cancel the financial resources that have come from most of the most foreign and commercial relationships abroad. The money it saves is donated to the general reserve. Not a reassessment of 1,4484 million. K. The bridge. A respectable president. In short, I have traced a greater portion of the legal committee to a two - year budget bill. Under the heading, Willum Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the Board of Sheep, Haraldur Benediktsson, author of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Njáll Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u129	A respectable president. We're dealing with a new set of laws on government finance here in the budget, because this is the first time they really have money money as far as I can understand it. In this case, we are doing new things. The first thing we do is not follow the law, just simple, it's not even being tried. I have to make a note of that. I understand that there are strange circumstances and two governments, etc., but the manager was a natural guardian of the legal committee during the last term and the chairman of a legal committee when this was a business administration when the budget for 2017 was set up. I don't see in the handling of the budget bill proposed by the management board and in the management of the Commission under the management board what was, for example, what was. added to health, education, and transportation, that this is a great reason for financial support, without the use of reserves. That's obviously the problem, as noted earlier. I think we're a bit of a walk around here on the responsibility that the General shall have in this case simply by being checked over, by setting ourselves up against a wall, and by selecting over themselves by the law on public finances. The government puts out a budget bill that is directly contrary to the law. The General Assembly, or more of the senators, seems to intend to sign it. I don't think that's an acceptable way to work. I wondered how we're going to conduct a budget operation next year because, in my opinion, it was clearly not well done during the last term compared with what we're getting at the end of the year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u130	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that, of course, I don't agree. A senator who is not under law. A financial committee reviewed the bill and explained the reasons for the financial proposals, so it puts the bill forward to 2nd. with the changes described. She wouldn't do it if she thought that there was a law being broken in that respect. During the last term, a senator believes that the budget has gone wrong. Yes, we can probably agree on this in many ways, but we are still following this new step in the surveillance of the legal committee. I mean, yeah. A senator protests that in the first three months of our previous government, we saw certain warning signs at that time. Legal committees all responded, e.g. by the letter I described earlier and sent to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the conduct of a class in her language field. At the age of six months, we were not seeing the high cost that then became the reality of pharmaceutical and relief measures. I've reviewed the files that were received. Legal committee at that time. However, it is clear that something has gone wrong during the summer, and in a normal year's journey, a financial committee should have identified it in September at the nine - month resolution that did not occur for certain reasons that we do not need to describe. But what's wrong. A senator asks me what I provide for myself on the board of budgets, I know that he and others on a budget committee, and we all agree that we need to take a firm stand for these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u131	A respectable president. I agree that we started the year calling for a minister's reaction to the weaknesses shown there, but it was just as if the Ministry wasn't listening. They simply answered, when they were called repeatedly for answers, that they were just going to make money with regard to their weaknesses. Those answers appeared very soon into the year. The second half of September, as well as the natural part of the operation of budgeting for understandable reasons, definitely failed, but perhaps it should have been stressful. I asked the Ministry for an explanation and logical support for any source they were looking for in financial aid. The answer, however, did not come with the logical support that explained why the legal rights were unexpected, were temporary, or met these criteria that require financial support. That's why I simply say that the law is not being carried out because it has not been explained why certain sources in the budget, some are more obvious than others, i.e. Why are they being presented in the budget instead of merely bringing the one that next year in the category of paint, as the law expects. That's why I say it's against the law and it's not even trying to apply the law when it's pointed out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u132	A respectable president. I just say again that I disagree with an interpretation. The senator has the legal rights of the currently acquired documents. But I agree with him and agree with his concerns that early in life, following him was a plan for follow-up. The legal committee during the last term told the Ministry that they were going to seek financial provisions. It's a bad habit that we're in. A legal committee also needs to work on and in good cooperation with the highest level. Secretary of finance that I know will succeed. Regarding the case we asked for in the station, I described it in my story in the past on issues in the local language area. The Minister of Justice, then it was clear that at the legal hearing of 2017, it has been confirmed since our review and ministry that there was an understatement that could not be dealt with any other way than the one that was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u133	A respectable president. I'm recommending the opinion of my share of budgetary bill for financial support. In order to continue the discussion earlier only, it is definitely immoral to simply offer financial contributions without their application to public financial laws. We on a budget board and at the council can simply stop this bad habit and let the executives listen to us. By allowing the company to rule over us and say: " Please, please, agree with these funding laws, we are promoting that behavior. Then there's nothing that says it won't happen again. I feel that the time to stop this habit is now, but not next time. Although it's said that this is not to be an example, I've heard it before. This is not an example now, not next, but always by saying that what we do wrong now is not an example for the future. This bill for financial support is the first set out under official financial law. It says of financial contributions: If necessary, a minister is allowed to look for additional financial resources on the bill for financial support to cope with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget during the course of the budget; There are all three things that need to be dealt with - ◯ endors have not been able to deal with them by means of the instruments specified in these laws. This is exactly a very important subject that I will come to later. There are other legal measures on public financial matters that should be taken before funding. A bill to cover 2017 does not look that way, it is like all other previous financial contributions products and does not indicate that government laws are being carried out. This law is clear that a minister is responsible for the implementation of budgetary laws and should be efficient and practical. To that end, a minister can achieve by setting rules for the use of financial resources. A minister can change the circulation of money within a category and, if any, if any, take to the reserves of products or take funds from a general reserve. All these measures must be used by a minister to achieve the aims of budgets, if financial resources fail, - and I remind him that there are funds in reserves - before any financial intervention is taken to consult through financial funds. And even if all resources have been taken, it still needs to be reasoned that there is a temporary, unforeseen, inevitable increase in financial resources. All these features need to be addressed in order to be called for financial aid. The bill for financial support for 2017 does not explain how the funds requested meet the above criteria. In fact, the committee reviewed commitments for any of these funds, and it must be asked whether they were 41 p.m. The constitution refers to a fee that can be paid at the appropriate time, unless it is authorized by the president for financial or financial contributions. Is it possible to commit a state fund without a warrant? A public opinion came and explained this tradition, so to speak, which has been formed looking for documents after, but they made a comment on what would happen if the Council said no. I believe that while the General allows post-discrimination against the Constitution, it is just as much. It was a violation of the Constitution by forming presupposed commitments prior to the search, although the General later agreed to the warrant. It's been broken. It's like returning the stolen part, so on. It is not up to the board that a minister has taken care of all the arrangements that can be used to prevent financial failure before consulting for financial contributions. No legal regulations have been set up on the use of budgets; no Minister's essays on the actions of Ministers are intended to prevent any variation between actual fees and budgets. Also, a minister has not made a financial committee aware of the use of reserves. The information given to the committee was that some reserves were stored in order to afford collective agreements in case of extracurricular activities. However, the reserves of the topic classes that apply in various places do not necessarily apply to human negotiations. You have to ask, "Why do I have to keep my reserve for it and look for financial provisions for other things instead of vice versa? " Why, then, can't you look for financial resources in a dresser's interest if someone comes to them and tries to use the reserve as soon as possible? There are, indeed, budgets for it and collective contracts, if they go beyond plan, are clearly something that meets the conditions that are sufficient to resort to funding when reserves are complete. All of this does not imply that public financial law is under way. There was a lot of discussion in the Committee about the financial reserves and the general financial reserve. The commission received disunited use of the reserves, showing that they were closer to virginness, total use of 25.9 billion. K. From the reserves of litigators. Even so, some 25 billion dollars are provided with a financial bill. If all the reserves, the common one too, were new, the budget could be about one third less. You might then be able to consider, for example. interest costs, etc. to reduce further and possibly the sources that can be reasoned that after dispossessing the reserve, the funds should be applied. However, it would be necessary to have all the reports and efforts of a minister in order to remain within the documents that are not available. Then perhaps we would be dealing with a budget - law bill that would be of a natural degree in relation to a government law. But there is no evidence to this point, logical support of the minister, branch offices, changes in regulations or explanations if they were not possible, e.g. For medicinal products, we do not want to stop chemotherapy e.g. and such regulations could not be considered. Maybe something else, I don't know. It is something that would be appreciated as to how various cost - reduction options could be used. Many of these have been named, e.g. buying permission in cooperation with other countries, using a set size economy to reduce unattainable costs. There are many things that have so far simply not been done. There I believe that the budget failed in a specific way on a financial level. There are a number of reasons. Yeah, we're doing this for the first time. We're still learning how to work. But as far as this process is concerned, I think that ending up in budgets is a big problem we should just say no to. There are no special consequences, since legal groups will only begin in a corner. The reserves are also moving forward, which should have been used to make up for that angle. If so, it would only be possible to resolve those issues in a natural way according to government financial laws. The minority takes special note that public financial laws are to be followed when it comes to financing. This means that if the government offers a financial bill, it will explain clearly how a minister has previously responded to the maintenance measures, regulations change, transfers, the use of the product funds of the seminary and the general reserves. When all of this is fully developed, a bill can be used for financial support only if these requirements are met and strict. Otherwise, the legal body of the party or wherever the expenses come in minus, in a corner, for the next year. This happens if it is not possible to explain that this is because of the conditions applicable to the funds. In addition, the budget bill is requesting additional sources in Article 6. budget for 2017. It adds four national sources to Nautilus Road, Mosfellsville, and the Blue Forest, along with property transfer from Lindahylol ehf. to the State Department of Pension Fund for the B-insert of Pension. What brings attention to this article is that if it is approved, it will be available only during the few days of the rest of the year, where these regulations are not expected in budgets by 2018. If these regulations are to be used, these agreements must be agreed on in the remaining days of the year. Probably just later today, maybe you can do this on a Saturday, tomorrow. However, the minority sees no reason for these sources to be replaced by budgets for 2018, where they could work in a normal process and not complete with a last day's signature. We have been informed that most of these contracts have actually been completed, and it is open to the council's approval that they will be accepted. This is an example of the post-marketing search. The Ministry of finance explained that it did not equal the use of such sources, such as the sale and sale of land, etc., by e.g. 41 st. The constitution on which a fee is not to be paid unless there is a warrant. Then expenses and the like are being referred to. But I think it's possible to take that logical step, since the general rule is that we need to look for a source in advance. I think it's possible that all of a sudden, about 6. permission, to pass, and to search for documents afterwards. I don't see that there are any laws that assume that you can do in contrast with what you would expect to be the spirit of the constitution, that there must always be a source in advance. I felt that the financial support that this is not something I could do afterwards. I'd like to direct it to the Generals that if there's any doubt in it that if there's anything to make it right and make it clear, they won't allow this interpretation power that leads to an allotment. We have a measure of interest in this bill for financial support because that is what was done before. It's just a little bit of money according to the old job. We have a government law now that is very clear on when and how to contribute funds. Even if you are strict under the old law, the funds are questionable. Still, they're looking for a source in advance. The old law also has conditions for the use of funds. We are in very close proximity, this is a violation of the law, both the new and the old, and we follow tradition too much in this regard. We simply apply what we've done before, no matter what the law says. As legislators, we're supposed to try to let the law mess with reality. If the reality is that we can't do this differently, we should at least to fix the law in a way that they test the truth so that it can be accepted as a fact that when the law is looked at, it reflects reality. That's exactly how we want to have it, that's how country should be built, the law, and all that. The Council is on the legal authority, but since the Minister gives the bill a budget to the General, which violates public financial law, what is the responsibility of the Generals to issue such laws? What are the consequences of failing to enforce the laws on public financial matters, and who enforces that responsibility? These are questions that I could not answer on the committee, perhaps because we did not have enough time to review the bill, this or all the others of this council. But these are vital questions that we should answer. How do we want to complete such a situation that simply does not fit into the circumstances we face, that this needs to be done on short notice? What to do when the government does not follow the synonyms, such as. With regard to financial plans or the laws on public financial matters that we place on the government, and that is to be followed? How do we react when the government simply breaks the law? I think that's a really big question, and it's not just about the budget and the budget now, it's about a lot more songs. In recent days and months, this has been true regarding reports and national rights. I ask, " Where is my responsibility to be? ' I think she's obviously lying with a majority of the senators who'll be able to agree with this. Although we are legalists, since we agree with these laws, which we have absolutely right according to our convictions, we can still be breaking laws. When this is presented, prime launchers are tried to prevent their regulations from violating a constitution. This is specifically considered when sending law-change proposals to the Committee to see if they match constitution. Why not to other laws? Why don't we send this back to the government and just say, "I'm sorry, it's against government law, please fix this? Clearly, there are certain goals that laws on public finances do not reach this time. No sustainability and no transparency is a constant search for sources once commitments have been established. That, in my opinion, is a violation of the constitution. There is no fixation, caution, or stability at 25 billion dollars. The bill for financial support. The minority simply rejects this project completely and points to a responsibility to go against the official financial law to the government and the members of the council that agree with this financial bill. Under the writings of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, and Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzus. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, an audience with a financial committee, agrees with the memory of the stock.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u134	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for his speech and conduct. First, I want to say that there was a certain harmony with a talk. A senator, and a speech, and a story. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson, who was prominent in much of his work, reviewed the matter before it was. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. When I said harmony, it was made clear. paritaprevir The Haraldur - hitting son of Benediktsson and his spokesman that this increase in money in very special circumstances, which he highly valued, is not an example of conversation, processing, engineering, and, as well, the combination of reserves and extramortures, which he reported well. I thought why. paritaprevir Leví Björn, in the same way, feels very good about it. I think most of them would be if not everyone had a good time. The legal committee agrees on this aspect. I have no particular question to ask. Instead, he wanted to use the opportunity to thank him for a very good contribution and criticism. We are to be critical when we review a budget bill and its processing. I think I might come up with a question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u135	A respectable president. I don't know how much material talk this bill's gonna get after this. I hope so much, but it depends on how people participate. It really needs a material discussion, especially in the council's seat, since we were not given much material discussion on the committee. I believe there's no need for a budget bill, but it can fall into the pit of the next year's mercenaries. While some of this could be put as financial aid requests, we have simply not covered the individual materials in order to identify who may be there and who may not. What I find really strange is that if people agree, like in the past, why they don't put them down and just say, "No, this isn't going through the General, it's not by the law that we've put them in, it's a process for this, even though we don't have money. We don't have to do this the way we did in the old days, the closing of the year and something like that, it just falls in as a limp, the reserve's moving, and we're moving on. It's not supposed to be complicated. I think it's used to. This has been the way it has been done before, and it's so easy to get on the same bikes again and do what has been done before. But we can say: " No, we don't have to do it this way, let it go, and keep on doing what the law says. I don't see it hurting anything, not at all. The law simply assumes that you don't have a budget bill and there's a reserve and a limp or a set of paintings that fall into the reserve as appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson for his speculations, let us say, and a great deal of nuclear questions in this matter. Why not put your foot down and simply don't agree with what is available, set up the laws on public finances, and try each step into, as to whether temporary, unseen, or inevitable expenses? Of course, that is an assignment. The budget board. Hv. A senator also pointed out that this is the first time we work within the law frame of a budget bill. Then I'd like to add that we haven't been able to get into the process of working on government policy and government budgets and financial laws in the right order, and then the sharing of reserves, the use of reserves. Furthermore, it is to be designed by order and simply directed. advisers on the use of reserves. That is the assignment of our committee, and it is a real challenge. The legal committee to proceed with this procedure. In this context, I'd also like to point out that when we continue with this, and then we'll test our monitoring role as far as possible. A senator spoke well in his history, never going to be smooth. Because business is by its very nature dinimic against the economy, which is static, we often have to deal with decisions that take place in a whole year inside this frame. I don't think it's over yet. The committee will need to deal with the viewpoints of decisions made ahead and thereafter. [[The president calls.]] They test the reserve for surveillance and interaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u137	A respectable president. Yeah, it's new, but I believe it's not even tried. It's not even trying to go through the team and say, "These things here obviously don't belong in the fundraiser, throw him at least. Out, if not more. There is not even one part, yet there are some more obvious than others. As for the process, it has been achieved in the correct order. We have managed to put financial and financial policies into it and then finance. The last thing I pointed to is that there is a violation around government exchange, so we wondered, " What economic management could we give to the next government? ' Of course it was an unexpected election now, so there was a much greater offense there. It just points to the flaws. However, we followed the procedure, so we've taken the process in the right direction. Because of the circumstances, failures have been made that force us to do this and the other for specific dates, and it's not suitable if the election moves forward and back. There is something that we can do better, adjust the law to make them more so because such circumstances may come back. It cannot be excluded, 10 years, 20 years, who knows. For observation, it is extremely important to know things in advance. If I don't know in advance what to do, I can't keep an eye on it. If I hand you an empty check and tell you to spend the money, I can't ask you after, would you spend it right? This is not how monitoring will work. We must be more effective in telling us more about what they will do in the future, and no matter how much they seek back, but in advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u138	Madam President. We're here to discuss the budgets of the current year. We've taken them a little fast through the council and a financial committee, like any other case. But I just want to get into that discussion. The committee's executive made a fine explanation of the committee's opinion. In answer, there were some indications that I think we can agree on in many ways. I have thought that the bill we're adding now is just because of the political situation we've had. This does not necessarily change the fact that something else could have been done. We will discuss this in particular in the opinion of the committee, specifically saying that we do not intend to receive such a financial bill back from the government, but we want to see a change there, as it were in the official financial laws. There is a learning process about the government laws on public finances. They will be two years old at the next year. I remember when we were working on them, on a budget board, we went to Sweden and visited our colleagues there and tried to get information from them about the many aspects of our process, the very fact that it took quite a while. Of course, it is different from ours, for it is always based on the existing bill or government budget. Of course, there's something different about politics. It is not even universally chosen for every four years. Of course, not everything can be compared there. It was said that it was a long process and that it would take a considerable amount of time for induction. We tried to strengthen the Ministry by depositing extra funds to improve financial matters in the budget. However, this too is a major change in the development and development of such factors for all institutions. There is nothing unusual about the need to revise and review. In fact, we have talked about the need to revise the laws ourselves in matters that have come up with. I think that's one of the things we have to do. In the greater part, we recall the reserve, which was a great deal discussed in the Committee, and we believe that there is a need for a little sharpening of the rule of the reserve. We directly tell our ministers that they need to make more use of them than has been done so far before they make a request in financial contributions. It was noted to the committee that only 26 million of the budgets have been spent, although the funds are up to 891 million. K. It is also a discussion of the need for all the lawsuits to have a reserve and how much. Does he have to be different, or what? This is one of the things the committee must consider as part of a financial arrangement, a review of what can be done, and a need to make changes in the law. The whole committee, and that is expressed in the opinion of the minority, agrees that the problem had been better handled, i.e. A link between the reserves and the budget bill, and no doubt we would have had more time in place, perhaps some of which would have affected the outcome. But that does not mean that we do not feel that this is presented otherwise in an appropriate way, i.e. that this will pass the law that is here discussed. The gray areas are always controversial, and we know it through the discussion. As we do in many places, it is a matter of controversy. This financial bill contains some large mails. The income is reevaluated as it should be. It has increased by 39 billion, the remainder estimated to be 1.7% of gross domestic product. Also, these are mails that have been repeated through the years, so let me say. For example. has had underestimation of Iceland's health insurance, kind of since their agency. However, the budget that we will conclude with the following will be addressed, so we should not expect to be expected to meet the schedule as it has been so far, at least not with the weight we have been living here year by year. These include increased donations for social security, which are mainly due to disability, but there are, of course, the medicinal products that have been much better and as well as expert services. Then there are the affairs of immigrants and refugees who, in my opinion, should have been able to handle matters better than they were. As a member of a budget board, we received indications that according to Foreign Institute, it considered the need to be greater. But that was not the result and was offered only to a small extent. Justice minister responded in the middle of a year by setting up an increase in money, but it is also not possible to take away those involved in the work that was a response to a reexamination of the work and other measures that helped to reduce expenses, so he did not become as much as expected. I'm just going to mention the deal with the National Church, which is very negative that it's not yet taken care of. It should have been long ago. It was also a discussion that took place on the committee. We urge our minister to settle the matter so that we do not deal with it again. In many respects, it is understandable why this is not in the budget. It is an agreement and may have to be negotiated before something is put into it. Then there is the problem of sheep farmers, who were now directly placed in the government covenant and have been counted in the media. We discussed him at the Committee, and we received a proposal from the farmers and the Ministry. As most of them know, the price of a business relationship has fallen, or what it is, regarding the European Union and also with Russia, resulting in a significant decrease of income and a major failure. It was carried out on specific grounds in the formation of a minister who has been so altered only that, despite the fact that it is in the scattered areas of the world, sheep's flocks are a very important support to other activities in rural areas and small settlements, and so much is based on the presence of sheep farmers. They perform tasks that would otherwise be neglected, e.g. In rescue teams and firefighters and other social activities that would be very difficult to deal with if sheep were to survive in those areas. These are cold areas, whether in sheep or elsewhere. There is a set of funding to support it. It is similar with economic failures. Let us not forget that sheep farmers have one of the lowest paid classes in the country. We hope that this action can help us to prevent the failure of a large number of bankruptcys or major malfunctions in these settlements. Therefore, general support is expected to be 400 million and 50 million regional support. In addition, measures in the field of carbon balance and innovation drop by 50 million. This is in harmony with what the farmers'leadership brought up, and we thought it was normal to respond. I really hope that this will lead to a serious urban disorder. At the end, a contribution to the Icelandic election study is expected. A survey of attitudes has been made among voters after every election since 1983 until last year. We feel that such things should continue. It's informative, and it's important to try out election behavior. I'm not gonna have this anymore. I can quite agree that we need to discuss this in our categories, the more part, with our minister, and strongly emphasize that swollen funds we will not accept. I think we all agree on that, both in smaller and more parts, that this is to be done in another way. That's the job. Overcoming and finding out about the reserve, looking at the rule of government finance. There are other factors under which have been recorded for the two years since they became legal, and I have been on the committee. So I think there's something we're supposed to be reunited at the end of the year and see how we're working on it. In fact, there are many projects that we need to consider with a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to mention the induction process that should take some time. Yes, it is. But we are in the financial stocks of that process, and there is no need to take long. It's not too complicated to live by the rules of government funds. I totally understand the other part of it that takes a long time to build up; policy development, the way it shows up in financial programs, so on budgets, etc. It's going to take a really long time to build it up. It's gonna take a lot of time to take care of the money. After that suggestion, I would like to ask. The senator is obviously not under the conditions of financial support and the authority that it is. Then I'll take an example of transportation. 400 billion expected. K. extra input for transport, in part, 200 million. K. 'Cause it's a military trip, and it's almost 200 million. K. to meet the cost of the index binding of the contract due to support for transport. This is interesting because there are some 4.6 billion service contracts under the budget of 2017 that would translate about 4.2% of that amount. Clearly, it is much more than the index binding. We were told it was a collection, so I don't understand how it's unpredictable there. What was mentioned about the sheep's position and strength, here is an interesting context. In the context, sheeping is being strengthened, as I was understood by the Committee, about 5 billion, and 500 million are being added, or 10%, in a single hand. Then I simply think about asking, " Are we using these 5 billion people so badly? ' Hence, considering the number of sheep in a number of sheep, it must be a very large amount per year that goes to each sheep in the bones that strengthens from the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u140	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't agree with him that this part, i.e. the extra part of the process, if there's rules other than the whole process. It's all hanging out. They have a lot of work to do, and the institutions have a lot of work to do. It's just that there's a lot of things that we could have figured out if we were on our minds with all this. At least that's my opinion. We can't pull something out of a crew, I think. It's all hanging around, financing, financing, state-of-the-art budget, legislation policies, institutions and all of this. We know that both agencies and the Ministry were unable to cope, and we saw that last year too. It must not be overlooked, though no one is hiding behind the political situation, that we have not yet been able to go through the whole process as it is supposed to work. I hope it works now. For other factors, transport, and such factors, you may be able to criticize what is inside and all that is the point of the index. That's why I say, there's obviously something in a gray area here that would have been better off. For sheep, we also cannot overlook the fact that, when employment projects have been affected by such events as sheep farms, they have been affected. The labour agreement is the standard support entirely out of this. Apparently, when 45% falls in two years, the usual contribution will not be enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u141	A respectable president. I'm not going to agree that the budget bill is out of parentheses in this or in parentheses, like a rough one. A senator assumes. It is simply the role of the government and the Ministry of finance to return to us a bill that depends on the law. Clearly, the government is not doing so even though it is. A senator does not want to express himself more strongly than it is in a gray area. If we take the material discussion, I'm sure we'll find very clear that there are several things that are not at all in gray areas but in a black area. It is not difficult to stop us from doing this wrong. Official financial law expects that this case will fall in the favor of the next year, and so on. and the reserve that comes with it just goes with it. So, instead of always trying to close the budget with a budget bill every year, etc. The induction process is extensive. At least they're supposed to try. We were having discussions earlier, me and what. The chairman of the budget board, about where we were in the process, why we were in this place even if we didn't want to. We've been through the process as planned. We have set up financial policy and financial plans and budgets based on the budget, so to speak. So we've gone through this process like we're supposed to do a little extra election in between. [[The president calls.]] But the process is here. We've been through it once. [[The president calls.]] We're finishing it for the first time on the wrong grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u142	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator speaks of us closing this up for the first time in a clean process. I think there were two sheep in last year. The system, for example, did not expect that. The law did not expect that. So we've had a lot of things going on. That's why I told it earlier that I think we should try to look over the law, give us time to do it, and see what it is that we need and that we had to deal with it, and if there's anything we want to change. The law also says that every government should establish a policy, then it should set up a financial programme, and it should set up budgets. In fact, that process has never been accomplished by one government. That's why I'm saying this. We have another political bitch here, but, for example, we don't. In many parts of the North countries, which basically assume that the budget is approved, in some places it is not chosen, but you are simply entering it. There are, of course, some countries that are always smart with budgets, smart in elections, and smart with budgets. We're not. We are completely different in this regard when it comes to elections and money. But I say once again: I agree with the criticisms that have been wooded here in terms of more parts and less, that we have to do better than here. We're done, and we're going to do it. We remind our government that it has to do it, that this kind of thing will not be done again. But we decided to do this now, even though we might have wanted to do it differently if we had had more time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u143	A respectable president. I'm taking this opportunity because I was looking at this document, which I must admit I didn't have the opportunity to study as well as I wanted at this point in my discussion. That's when I caught sight of the 10:20 religion party. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned this charge of 550 million. K. to the Church because of a so - called church meeting and mentioned that it was normal. First of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator would be able to explain a little more clearly why this is not on the law. The rest is, because it's also happening, and I'm wondering if it's been discussed, whether or not. A senator can teach me and others about other matters, for it says that there is some kind of communication going on with the National Church on the future financial relationship between the State Church. It always worries me a little bit, if that's what it is. There's someone talking to someone, and I don't know what, because of the church agreement, one of the most dishonest agreements I know, because of the seemingly endless conflicting properties that will last forever. I am extremely suspicious of such negotiations in view of what people have allowed themselves to do in the past in connection with this church meeting. I am deeply concerned that there will be another attempt to improve this disorganized connection between the state of the church and the state. It may be more my opinion, is it not? A senator. I'd like to know everything I can about this discussion, I'd say something about where they stand, how they come about to finish, or where they're going to be doing it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u144	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. No. In itself, the situation did not appear on our committee, a financial committee. This is natural under the General and Education Committee, actually, i.e. Church business. We, however, are the financial resources in this regard. This may be the nature of the situation, but when we're in some contracts, we want to do it without showing all the cards trying to get as good an agreement for each other as possible. Hence, it may be only natural that the law does not include the law of the law. It is in our opinion that the church meeting is but one part of the relationship between the state and the church, and so it is the fee. I don't know exactly where these conversations are. But I kind of feel like the monopoly, because we're here to say that we want this to be done, that we don't have to deal with it again in the budgets, in this way, anyway. Then something's coming to an end. If there's something coming to completion next year, we'll probably find out, if it's not yet finished with some reserves, and we're going to see that it's actually going to be checked. But if it doesn't work out, we'll probably have to deal with this on the budget. I think we should call for the situation and follow up on it and follow the criticism we have made. That's how it looks to me. But I don't know, like, what? The senator asked about, in which direction the agreement is going. You can also look for information about it. And other committees can do that rather than just a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u145	A respectable president. I would have no problem with that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education would take a look at this. Actually, I don't think she does. On the other hand, it is also natural for me to have a financial committee go to it. The reason is that this is a matter of financial relations with the State Church and especially because, as I mentioned earlier, I don't know the opinion. A senator on that subject, but in my opinion, I can only see that this church meeting was designed to ensure that, in fact, it would be far more difficult to separate states and churches. People have found at some point that it must come, to the end, the normal evolution of a civilized society that the State does not have a church. There is another subject. But it goes on to the subject because it is the way to keep it where it is, even if we were to eliminate this ridiculous provision in a Constitution of the state church and go to other natural changes in that arrangement, it will always remain, this church agreement makes it so difficult to create the real separation that must be normal in a modern society where the State has nothing to pay attention to certain religions. I'm sorry, I get a little angry every time I talk about this because I think it's so ridiculous. For this reason I believe that it is normal to go to this because it is about money that goes from the state to the state church and also this sale or what can be called, some kind of lifetime rent on these churches, I don't even know what to call it. It's all financial. Money is used. And the universal financial king is used to keep the church tied to the State and the state of the church. I think it's normal for a financial committee to go over this and get to the bottom of it. I realize that negotiations cannot be discussed when people are in the middle of negotiations, but it's more important to me that the overall surveillance role is being handled because of what happened to the church meeting because it must fit the direction that will be taken from that path. [[The president calls.]] Sooner or later, this church meeting needs to be terminated in some way. [[The president calls.]] I fear that these negotiations are, in effect, about supporting this preposterous arrangement even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u146	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists and his opinions that I know very well. I agree with him, of course, that this is the main concern of the budget board because it is from where the funds have to come to meet the agreement they are trying to achieve here. I'm not necessarily going to comment on how I feel about the agreement that's under here. I haven't seen it in myself, so I can't express myself in any other way than what is stated in the paper with the financiers. But I agree with the senator that we need to keep an eye on him. We need to monitor the direction he's going. I agree with that, I don't think it's unnatural. We know that since this agreement was made in 1997 there has been a great decrease in church numbers. It was with the floor. There were no limits to which to go. But as I say, I don't know what the situation is today or exactly whether you're connected to the church meeting with the parish charges or what. I think both of them are something we have to look at in the big context, how it's going to be done. I believe that the chairman of the budget board and the members of the Committee are quite ready to get a close look at the progress of this agreement, i.e. working to reach this agreement before coming to a conclusion, if we can say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u147	Madam President. It's something important with this bill that it's a bill that no one really wants to see, looks like me. Everyone points to the conclusion that it should not appear in the way it does here. Because it's a bad bill we shouldn't see. This is not in harmony with the new laws on government finance. I remember when I came to this room 15 years ago first, that was exactly the same thing. The abuse of the European Commission was being criticized for financial contributions. If it was abuse, what is it now? In the meantime, we have agreed on a good law, on the basis of standing up, on public financial laws that were to make allowances an absolute exception. There are requirements for expenses that need to be met. Expenditures that do not fit within the budgets, which cannot be met with the reserves, either a reserve of media or the general reserve, and are additionally inevitable, temporary, and unpredictable. If we were to just look at the law and act on it, we wouldn't be discussing bill for a budget of 25 billion dollars. It's little less than what we put in the entire high school level of our country. Similarly, it is little less than we do at the university. It's more than we put in law enforcement, D.A.L.S., prosecution, full case, etc. That's not a small amount. Not the amount of money we can fully justify living in a bill for financial support. I know after being a member of the budget board that the greater part is agreeing with this. I have high hopes that the financier will agree to send a clear message to the executives that we never want to see this again, never a bill for interest in 25 billion dollars. Unless the requirements for expenses are inevitable, unpredictable and temporary, and that the reserves have been used. A government check came to a panel meeting and was very honest, as if it were fair and should be. She put it somehow so that once again the council was being placed against a wall. One more time, we're being confedederated by Congress, the legislatures - the capital is right here on this side of the hall, not there - against the wall. The initiatives listed in the bill have been set out, and even paid for. We know exactly what it says in 41 st. The Constitution on government funds without warrants for financial or financial contributions. A government retrospect especially called attention to a high figure, 25 billion. She also called attention to the fact that this bill for the budget is especially late. Although the situation was unusual, it could have come earlier. It's just before Christmas that I remember. On the committee, we discussed a lot about the use of these so - called reserves. This is not some technical point. It matters. On the basis of official financial legislation, these options, i.e. The reserves of litigators, 37 numbers of over 900 million, and then we have the general reserve. It's nearly 8 billion. Ministers are required to use the reserve to meet unexpected expenses that may sometimes be inevitable. I'm quite well aware of that. But if I make notes and read the correct financial memo, only 3% of the mercenaries have been used. If we then look at the bigger, fewer than 8 billion reserves, only 22% of them have been used. Of course, you are wondering why these measures are not first used, before we are handed this wonderful bill for a 25 billion - dollar budget. Yes, it is said the Ministry may not be quite in gear, and it needs some adjustment period, etc. The adjustment time has been sufficient. It's a year we shouldn't have seen a bill like that for financial support. I know members of Congress agree with this. Therefore, whether we are in part or in part, it is important that we send a clear message to the government that this will not be done. We want to work under government law. It matters. We need discipline on government management, need careful planning, and do not want any government agencies to be dosed in such a way that we know they're going to get in trouble. It's foreign here. It is pointed out in this hall that there is a shortage of money in the hospital or in the presence of trustees or increasing the number of invalids or pharmaceuticals. The Commission then decides, with the support of a large part of its council hall, to overdose too little money. Of course, these institutions will be in trouble. This is not forethought but foreordaining. It's not an argument about Caesar's beard, it's not the hairpieces, it's important. The law is clear in this regard. Inevitable, temporary and unpredictable expenses. It was also noted that I am with the farmers who were now the only interest group that came to the budget when we discussed the budget, that it was a political decision to place various expenses on the budget rather than on the budget. That's a bit of a husk of a thought. There should be no political decision on which side of expenses are available, in financial or financial terms. So I want to declare it from this chair that it's not right. I also noticed when I asked the highest part. Secretary of the budget for the 1st. that he somehow put it so that it is often just a matter of how we made our expenses. No, you're wrong. This is not some accountingrix or rifle that we are fulfilling. It's important to do what's right. A financial memo says that the bill does not generally discuss proposals for new projects. But I guess there are new projects on this bill. There is an increase in environmental protection. She belongs in the budget. We're not supposed to put such new projects on budgets. We've got some kind of knowledge repairs, port repairs. What are you talking about, putting it in cash? If a person has a political conviction that a person needs to be corrected or rejected or added to a ban, he is to be placed in the law of the law. That's what they're for. The financial bill is still open, we haven't closed it yet. Transport is a large part of this, 1.2 billion. As I put it in 1st. transport is one of the most discussed topics in this room. If you want to put 1.2 billion on transportation, on a regular project, just put it on the budget. Make the political decision to place it in the budget. Don't sneak it in like this, so to speak, into the budget. I would like to mention some of the other tasks that, of course, raise questions about the way this greater things are going. Of course, this is not in the spirit of a new act that we all eagerly wait for. There's plenty to take from here. The religion was mentioned. 550 million. K. for an agreement with the church. This was also done on budgets in 2015 and 2016. We asked: "What happens if we put this on the budget, take it out of the budgets? We can do that. Well, next year it'll come. What's the blunder of this? There is no unpredictable. It's so obvious that the budget is being abused. I'd much rather have seen this taken out of the budget bill. We can do that, we still have the legal authority, and we can put it in the budget if we want to. Sheep farmers. In contrast with other groups in this society, farmers are a group that can get theirs from that government. 666 million to meet the problems of sheep farmers Despite 5 billion who go to that class. Why don't they put this on the budget? Yes, as a farmer mentioned earlier: It is a political decision to place this on the budget rather than on the budget. It's very strange, putting fewer than 700 million into one class. This should be part of a much larger discussion. We need to take that up with some depth of this room, what route we have with the agricultural system. We're on the wrong road, we have an expensive agricultural system that does not profit from farmers or consumers. Everybody knows this. We need to get out of these bicycles, some forward thoughts, and I'm sorry, about how we're getting closer to the agriculture. I believe in Icelandic agriculture. Let us help him to stand on his own feet and rethink his system so that both farmers and consumers can benefit from it. We have an expensive agricultural system. The European Union's agriculture system, a relationship I'm rather fond of, is wrong, but ours is even more stupid. I look forward to the discussion that we can travel together to improve the interests of farmers and consumers. But once again, we're putting some patch, rather expensive, 700 million, and doing it in the wrong way, using the money we're not supposed to do. Let's just move on a little bit. I was able to handle the transportation issues that, of course, do not belong here. Sometimes you see unique numbers that are very high. This figure assumes 400 million in Herlf. Half of this may be considered unpredictable and is caused by the Army's going to a stretch, and the ferry had to be rented. But the other half, the other 200 million, has much more to do with money. So the numbers in this record are often swollen. It's like growing disability. The site is 2,2 billion due to an increase in disability. That's such a big number. Of course, I realize that it can be difficult to assess an increase or a lot of disability, but it's so far from the whole project, it's so deliberate, I don't know what to say. Of course, it can be difficult to appreciate the growth, but not that much. I think everyone in this room can see that. Another example is the drug. They're a permanent guest in the bill for financial support. There should be no regular guests there, the nature of the matter, something unexpected that lands there. Still, the medicines always have a place in the budget. Again, there's evidence that we're abusing the budget, and we've done it no matter what government we're in, I don't care about it. But now there's a new council, there's a new law: Let's change this. Then we have to stand on our feet and stand together, whether in our smaller part, the greater part, the right, the left, the middle, and join in the administration, the European Commission, and change this. Showing that our jurisdiction is within our place, the funds are within our reach. We do not have to get permission from the advisers. Of course I know exactly how politics works in Iceland, here's a lot of Ministering, but change it. We have a powerful weapon in this struggle, it's a government law. I have high hopes that a financial committee will agree to go on that mission. I know why. This has, in effect, been echoed by a member of the body of elders and the chairman of the legal committee. I appreciate that. I think he's sincere in his efforts to change this. There are other cases here. I may not be going over these matters forever. The Agency's budget, the Member State budget for Farice, etc. It is enough to deal with things that obviously belong to sheep and gray areas. Of course I'm not saying the budget should be zero. But 25 billion budgets are completely out of the map. To see joints that repeatedly come in like medication and stuff, there is not even a need to say that this is not in harmony with the law. I'm going to do it, and again I'm going to express my dissatisfaction of this project, dissatisfaction to the problems of counsellors, and really to us, that we're not doing something about it. Why don't we change something in this bill? The majority do not suggest a work here either being taken out or transferred to the budget. It is as if the council takes a little more time to build up courage. But let us at least have that courage next year. Let us be courageous and united in 25 billion years. You'll never see any money in this room again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, for his speech and input into 2nd. A financial bill and can agree with many of the items he came in and traced. I'd like to start by saying that I accept a real challenge. A senator to change the practice here and to increase the discipline around the work code and code of government financial laws and to put us under close supervision. I couldn't agree more. When it comes to doing so, a senator looks forward directly to getting into the legal process, finally reaching out for financial policies, a financial agenda followed by then, and so on. Like what? A senator came in and we're working on a budget after 26 g's. it's a government law. It is comparable with budgetary documents to respond to temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses, depending on the general reserve at 24 C.E. Gr., who may, however, have more extreme circumstances. Last year, I'm going to point my speech to each other. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson, vice president of the Fundament Committee, who spoke for the committee's list of branches. Hv. A senator was very careful about the political situations that are the basis for this bill's work. I don't think that, without asking a particular question in the previous answer, the greater part of it was made clear that it wasn't an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u149	Madam President. As I mentioned in my speech, we agree completely, I think, well. Chairman of the budget board and us in the memory of the section. Then let's just stick to it and go on this journey together. Actually, I can't agree with what. A Chairman that I look forward to changing the process, but I am glad that we are united in wanting to change it. It's gonna be hard. The Ministry is deep - seated, and the government system is strong. That's why it's important that we, 63 legislatured senators, financiers, get to work and do it together. This is not a group of political issues. It's a better job. That's why I'm especially happy for what's happened. The chairman of the budget committee said so earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. Senator. I'm just gonna come on with the fundamental anomalies. A senator did well, and then a certain project. I agree that it would have been desirable to have more time to try on specific projects better within the bounds of the law and the conditions they place us. If we cover the large sums, a third of the major problems we make in the purchases of bonds in foreign currency are a factor. It's about 1/3 of the total budget. And then there's 1/3 for the welfare, health insurance and the social security system, drug purchases. There is, of course, a procedure, no matter what, it's a drug trade committee, etc. and a lot of new and expensive medicines that cannot be provided. I guess it's safe to say that the fundamental anomalies fall within the framework of the laws on public finances and into the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u151	President. This is a little different from what I'm talking about. Senator. I just think the drugs are a good example of something that shouldn't be in the sheep's budget. Well, maybe in part, but when we have a budget team that's regularly in the budget, there's something wrong with the plan. I think it's an excellent example of a tire tire that we need from the way we approach the rising cost of medication, which is a very special solution to the council. Other than that, I think I've done quite well with examples of projects that do not usually belong in financial aid; transportation, church affairs, farmers, an underestimation of disability, etc. I feel like most of the teams belong in the budget, at least there are a lot of people in the gray zone. Let us put it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u152	A respectable president. We have not received any specific material discussion about the sources who are trying to gain access to these funds. So I wondered about our money here at the council when it all comes down to it. The idea is that the government's going to have to go yellow to let stuff like that through. But there are some things on the bill that don't belong to it. Since we have missed a material discussion about these matters, we cannot afford to decide whether or not a law applies to any matter: No, we do not want to do this. We cannot easily stand together as members of Congress regarding certain financial resources, whether they should succeed, or whether we should be able to set down and say no. I wanted to get some material discussion as a result. I'm asking why. A senator: What would be the result of saying no to the cash? I've only thought about it, and then I wonder that it will only come to a corner as it goes and happens, go over to the next year; that it will just continue to be handled normally, etc., which is how I feel the government law should work properly. I'm wondering what. A senator has a similar opinion, or he understands it as I do, i.e. that we're supposed to get out of this at the end of the year, get some extra money, close the year to zero and all that stuff, or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u153	Madam President. That's a very interesting question. I think it was framed by a Government Accounting. They're putting the council against a wall. What happens if we say no? Yes, there are two ways to do this. We can say, "No, we're not going to the budget. Okay, we're not gonna put 670 million to the sheep's farm, we're gonna put it on budgets. We could do that. That would be the right way in this regard. What happens, though, about the expenses that have been paid? It was considered at the site of the Committee whether the State would be subject to improvement. However, usually when it is made up of the government's expenses, it is likely to be in advance of the approval of the Generals. I hope it's done. Because what's the ultimate right? It's the constitution. In view of the rights, she's the one who's drumming the law. At 41 st. The Constitution simply says that payment is not to be given unless it is authorized for financial and financial aid. This needs to be known by the Ministers, especially in the leading of elections, but also at any time. They cannot be saving, even if there is good work, in their districts, or whatever, they need permission, financial resources, and financial resources. It's a rather clear text in the constitution. This is an interesting discussion. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is starting here because it's completely unacceptable. We are put in the intolerable situation where the equipment has been replaced and paid, and then we come to this room and ask us to stamp out the check.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u154	A respectable president. Yes, it is a complex interaction with the regulations of the constitution. Whatever it is. A senator referred to the obligation to improve the religious discussion, which is precisely not unpredictable. We were in exactly the same situation as 2015, and I was in the same situation in the budget of 2016; in fact, exactly the same amount. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson just came in and said how it works. It's very complicated, but it's not supposed to be complicated. That may be the problem. I also wanted to point out an article on foreign affairs, development in response to an earthquake in Greenland, saying that it was the government who agreed to do something. But here's a part of the budget called Government Decisions and it's up to 173 billion. K.I don't know if he's been paid or not. But I would have thought that this would fall upon the team that hangs on that side or something like that, but not necessarily in cash. This is a special government release, but not something that came intervening as such and has funds to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u155	Madam President. You're absolutely right. A senator, you see, there are other options. A minister can change the circulation of funds within his business class. And then they're like whisks. A senator could handle, some pots, or what they would call, the government's playing out to face the disaster in Greenland or so. I know the previous governments have used it. And then, of course, we have the reserve, so there's a lot of previous steps that this government ignores. When I say that it's not a political thing to want to change the process: Yes, it's a group of predominantly catechisms in that more part favors such practices, but we in the smaller parts don't. That's why it's important that we take this discussion this way, which I think we're doing here. Of course it doesn't end here. If there are any legal questions, what position the council is in if we refuse to do so, we need to call for a lawyer's good opinion on the scene to determine what will happen to the decisions we reject, especially when payments have been made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u156	A respectable president. When I first arrived at a assembly, I occasionally stopped to serve as an audition agent for a financial committee at that time. Pirat and I didn't have a member. Then there were some initial discussions that focused on who was responsible for applying the laws of the law. Is it the Minister, the designated agencies, or the council? I recall the discussion ending so that the responsibility must be at the minister's office. But then what? So nothing. I feel like it was really the same. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that we have powerful weapons that are the legal law on public finances. I'm not quite sure I agree with that. Senator. I don't think they're a powerful weapon. The law is very clear, at 26. A smile, that's what I'm talking about. A senator went over himself, says, on permission of a president: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to cope with temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with it. As I read this as a painful senator, I do not see a minister above his right to suggest when it is evident that these are not unforeseen, temporary, or inevitable expenses. In view of this, I wondered: " If you were to come to a conclusion by some process that would be considered unsaid by these suggestions, a minister could not seek that authority, what can we do to establish such a process? I can't see that we have any weapon other than to grumbling here only at the exact moment that is an annual event, more specifically, when the budget comes, no doubt as far as I know. I think we need some better equipment. Maybe it should be the committee, I don't know, an independent court or whatever. But something has to be done to make a person responsible. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, as a member of the budget board, whether or not. A senator has some ideas in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u157	Madam President. Yeah, that's a very interesting question. There are several sources of observation, of course, of the council, financial committees and other professional committees. We need to be a lot more like it. I think we agree on that. We need to promote the role of the Senate committees. However, there are two organizations that are not subject to the execution, they are subject to the council. It's Federal Accounting and Author of the Generals. When these institutions were set up, it was recommended that they be heard under the General Assembly. They must not be carried out. These are the only institutions under the General Assembly. The rest of the institutions are under the executive authority. Why is that so? Because Marketing Authorisation Holder (Advelopment) and secretary of the Generals shall oversee the European Commission. This is where our allies in this hall are checking that the law is respected, that the law is respected. In my speech, I thought the laws on public finances to be a powerful weapon of improved management, and I am still on that view, especially because there are three laws that require meeting all of them; there must be unforeseen, temporary, and inevitable. It's a powerful weapon. Therefore, I can say here: these 700 million to farmers, or 550 million to the church do not meet the requirements of the law. That's what I meant when I called this law a powerful weapon. But like many things in our society, all we have to do is increase discipline, respect the law, respect the financial authority. Let's say a little at stake that the funds are on this side, but not on that side. Join us in being a bit demanding of our Ministers, whether it's this government or anyone else. Let's get up from tire tracks, misexplorement and management.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u158	A respectable president. Yes, I wholeheartedly agree with a senator, and I can even say that this is a powerful weapon in the sense that it is much clearer than it used to be. That's what's left behind. It seems to me that there is also a political problem to fix it. Here's what we're talking about. A senator for 25 billion. That would not mean, then, if we were to give ourselves child the sum, or say just 10 billion of it, had been anticipated. Let's pick a number at random. Then, at one time, it would have been necessary to return a budget bill, probable, with 10 billion less leftovers. If you want to turn aside from a course that has become a sort of tradition and habit, that means that funds are used as rough. A senator describes, needs to come to a government or financial minister who offers a financial bill and says: "We have to stop this fundraiser, and that's why the rest is just not that big this year. To do this, I think there is a need for a measure of political courage, but I think it would also take a measure of understanding if that were to be done on the part of those who would be criticized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u159	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator here had a very interesting tone. I just didn't have the nerve to hit that tone here. But I have a feeling that people don't want to put a lot of money on budgets because that would be the rest of my budget 2018. They're making the books beautiful. That's a discussion we need to take. If we were to clean 10 billion of the budget and put it into the budget what would happen? Yes, the rest would be 32 billion to 22. It may be some political thing that, in part, seems uncomfortable to face. If so, it is not fair and dishonest, if one is going to make the most of his expenses in an effort to make a contribution to the 2018 budget, it will only look better. This is exactly part of the discussion that we need to take, for it is serious if we use some accountingrix. I think all members of Congress agree, of course, that they do not work at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u160	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill for financial support. Now it seems to me that there are smaller things and more of the legal committees agree on the seriousness of the case, but perhaps a small amount of willingness to do something about it. If we look at the situation cold and balanced, I think we're in the shelter of the excuse that there are so extraordinary circumstances, short periods, etc., absolutely overconceiving the law on public finances. I think the council should do it in the following year only if it wants to revise these laws and relax the requirements they are made if they are not intended to be followed either, or if there are any other measures to be taken to ensure that the European legislation works on the law. Because it's clear when we go through the budget and the budget talk that they're being violated. The budget is not being completed here at a level with current financial policy or financial agenda. This may be a political inconvenience to a new section, but it's just the law. Then they're just not right. But it must also be looked forward to that even at the normal rate of the council, the situation will arise when it is chosen in the spring that a new government will accept with financial and financial policies that are expected to give a good time in the spring to discuss and accept values. And I suppose we'll have to put in their first budget into action that financial policy and that financial agenda if there's a head of any will and intention to enforce the laws on public finance, intended to provide the state's financial affairs firmly firm, forethought and sustainability. These are the baseline values that you work for. There was high hopes in these legislation. That this would precisely rule out such vices as we are living in this budget, that it is absolute inadequacy, total inadequacy in the state's affairs, and we are always in this beat-up forward-run operation where we see that from 2010, even in the discussion of improving the terms of the state's budget, the results are about 10% higher than the financial bill proposed. This happens year after year. And this is happening again now. It's just as much now as it's been traditional. It's exactly the same addition between the bills from the first budget bill to the approved budget, and we can expect it to be the same payback when we see the final budget and the state bill for 2017. No one is willing to follow this. I think that's just the fact. It would have been desirable for a financial committee to have dealt with this with much more firmly. There's a quarter of a quarter of a billion budget coming up from a previously approved budget. When you look at these joints, it is first completely clear that when you look at unforeseeability, invisibility, or monotonous costs, the types of chips placed in the law, there is no evidence that any actions were taken on the basis of the European Commission in an effort to resist. There is no passage from a budgetary committee to what measures the Minister has taken, e.g. in other areas, in order to counteract the growth of expenses. Here I am not going to separate myself as a minister of much of this period. I would have liked to have a chance to review what my responsibility there was. Similarly, I say that under that category, I see a number of people being greatly improved here on my final meters that I do not know of being warned of a particular weakness in my time as ministers. I don't know what's going on there, whether it's so sudden and unpredictable, or whether there's only a traditional temptation here, that in the light of the good supply of state funds, better than expected, it's being cleared out a number of people that are convenient to be rid of just so that they don't need to raise expenses for the next year or to make better space. It's been the main vice of the fundraiser over the years that it's used very freely, not necessarily of an urgent need. Also, it is not to see that potentials have been emptied into compromises within groups of languages to make use of them in other areas. As we look at the first two cautious steps in this: a) trying to resist or b) attempt to transfer funds between other teams - there will not be any traffic for the panel to have been a lot of work done or much effort to do it. Now I realize that time is short for a new government, but it doesn't change that the law has to do it. Third, the debate comes to the reserves. There are two sources of distribution, one on the other, a reserve of lawsuits and the general government reserve. It has been made clear that these reserves are more and less ruined. At 25 billion dollars, we are probably included in the ninth billion, since it is in the budget that, for the sake of change and for the benefit of the gangs, we probably have a reserve of 9, billion, which are ruined against the 25 billion. And it's totally impossible for me to understand why, on the other hand, this reserve has not yet been emptied. The requirements are exactly the same when it comes to meeting the requirements for financial support or the conditions for using reserves. Then it must be a very normal first step to begin emptying it anyway. There I would like to see a financial committee step down to the ground, simply making a change in the budget with the intention of emptying these reserves first and lowering the budget bill as sensitive as that. Then we would not be talking about a 25 billion budget bill. Rather, we would be talking about somewhere in the range of 15◯16 billion, which would be better, though, because of the inaccessible interest expenditures due to advance payment or loans. That would be a much better approach. I think it's very important for us to learn from this, and I think that for a financial committee in the coming year, there will be a much clearer standard on how to work with this reserve and also a much more efficient monitoring of how to proceed with budgets and what measures are being taken in case of slaving. I'd like to mention a few special terms without going through the budget bill in particular. The church has been named. Here, 550 million more are being added to the existing funds for commitments, are not unpredictable, accepts to lie in some way in the state, and is attempting to renegotiate. As a matter of fact, I think this deal must be one of the badest things the state fund has ever done. It's a 20-year deal. [[Up front.]] I'd love to see that agreement calculated. Because it seems to be totally open and unfilled into the future with the church against something that should have been rather well defined. It would be interesting to see the balance there today, 20 years after this agreement was made. Special farm support. It's not foreboding. This is being negotiated at the end of the year. Why in the world is it not for financial purposes? It is absolutely impossible for me to understand. I suppose it would be the same day for farmers anyway, i.e. You could fix this with farmers as early as the next year. I'm not going to go into a lot of material discussion about the content of this agreement that we've received a very limited presentation on. I still feel that it is working with the same inefficiency and shortsightedness in the agricultural system that has been characterised so far. There's no future solution to the problem of sheep farmers in this, it's just a patch on the wound, 700 million. K. A bandage, with no vision of how to strengthen the position of sheep farmers to any future. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson son of Augustus who spoke before me: We want the road of agriculture to the best. Icelandic agriculture has an enormously strong position to build on but it cannot be the responsibility of a state fund to react whenever prices of markets or sales managers fail to function completely. The support must have a longer view than that. And that the state should run for a bang every time something happens, that is not true of other jobs. We're supposed to have much more general and more targeted support for agriculture than we can find here. Something else I'd like to cut short. For a discussion of bandorm in the 3rd. The more part announced that they had fallen away from the extension of temporary rules at high school that gave tax returns because of the cost of material expenses and evening instruction. Which is very good, and I think everybody agrees. So came the declaration that this was financed. There is, however, no modification proposal from the greater part of financing of, approximately 300 million. When asked for this, I understand that the answer is, "It's only coming to a raise next year. So here, in this discussion on budgets for 2018, ministers are publishing financial expenses for 2018. It's totally preemptive. In fact, it seems that the less part has a different proposal for the budget of 300 million. K. A bill for high school to attend this very thing. It may have been after the second time that the greater part took that adjustment, making it a time, or supporting it. At any rate, it would be considerably better than to cancel that change and then bring 300 billion. K. Remuneration warrant for next year's funding. I think it would be, well, as you say, an extraordinary comie situation if she really came up. I don't believe the smaller part will come through at least one adjustment proposal. There will be no more than that in this contribution, there is traditional delirium and payment, as has always been. It is not to see any significant change in the way we work. So be it. I know that the first government took pride in saying, "We have to work within the warrants, use reserves for the expenses you can find here. " Certainly, factors in this room are very large, such as the increase in cost due to a much higher population than expected, a much higher drug cost than expected. An important decision was made to add 1,500 million dollars to financial contributions because of local dwellings, where it was evident that the 2017 budget did not fulfill the commitment of the state's budget. A major decision was made to add 1,200 million more to transportation. All of this would have been factors that would have been perfectly natural to take up a financial discussion, but most of these are a number of expenditures, large and small, that would have been best received into reserves and would have dropped the sums of these funds that would have been sensitive to them. I think it's perfectly clear that if we're going to be law on public finance to act as the government, which will sustain the project they're supposed to be, we're going to have to make a big difference in these tactics. Otherwise, because this was a question of options then, well, the council could only take the check from the executives. At least this would be one way to ensure that the European Parliament operates within the financial resources it provides. Perhaps there would be something worth considering if it didn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech and inwards. I can agree with most of his words, especially when it comes to government laws on public financial matters. Hv. One senator said that there was no desire to do anything about changing this and that there was that view. To some extent, that can be understood. That, however, has been true in the discussion and in the context. The legal committee says that there is a clear desire to change the process and to work on it in the future. Hv. A senator took on his responsibility as a member of the Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Department this year. Then he clearly recognizes that the use of reserve classes has not been established.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u162	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true, to be reasonable, that there is just the same concern, that you hear, in more parts, and in smaller parts of the legal committees in this regard, and in transnational will to enhance performance so as not to be reinvented. That's right. That's right. That's right. Senator. I missed it, however, and would have liked to see the financing simply make some changes, bring out the reserves against the defined financial request, which is contained in the budget and turn it down as sensitive. I would have thought that was a natural arrangement. This would really be to ensure a greater survival, for it is not to be forgotten that the ruined reserves of litigation at least go from year to year, as I understand it. This will increase the scope of the European Commission next year if this is not done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u163	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer and the conversation. It is well stated in a financial and economic memo that the use of subsidies is very limited, as well as the general reserve to respond to unforeseen cases, as is said. in the law. But I think that's a clear will of what it is. The committee has to change that shape. I want to ask you why. A later senator, and then since being an acting minister, would it not simply be necessary to give counsel to a minister to make better use of the reserves before it comes to putting something in the budget? So I'd like to point out that if we take the basic variations that fall under the law, maybe we're talking about a lot less than 1% deviations. It would be in some town where a financial government would be excellent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u164	Madam President. You're right next door. A senator's reserves were very limited in the past government, and it was obvious that this work was not finished taking care of them. However, I stood myself in that meaning, sitting at that table, that both the weaknesses and the charges that were being taken were going off a reserve. I think it is, and it was actually made very clear in the case of the Government Accounting, the natural procedure, that if other measures cannot be taken, the reserve of reserves is to be emptied before the council is reached to ask for additional documents. It made it clear in the case of Government Accounting that it was a matter of whether new budgets were involved or weaknesses under the terms of budgets. It should start by emptying the reserve, of course, first attempting to take some measures to prevent it, but if it did not exist or could not be used, the reserve should be used first if necessary. [[The president calls.]] I think it is very important that the conference continues with the problems for the council, especially the Ministry of finance, a much clearer rule on how to handle the reserves, and when to take steps. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u165	A respectable president. That was, in effect, the final words of a talk. A senator I wanted to hear more about. He suggested that in order to enforce this law, the General could simply take over the government's legal authority, an enjoyable measure. I don't know if it might be considered Generalism, but one thing seems to me, something has to be done. In my opinion, this is rather a general problem, and the General is having this role in the government not only in this but also in other ways, the role that they play for some reason not to play properly. The devices it does, such as the various committees and anything, clearly do not work. In advance, I wondered, " Am I not? ' A senator can think better about what individual ministers, where there is a sharpness. A senator was a minister of the last government, could contribute to making this message more clear, perhaps to a financial committee, about what was prepared for the cost, what was predictable, so that at least the committee, or other members than the Minister of finance, could respond to and put him in his home, on the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u166	Madam President. Of course, it is the General Assembly that provides the Commission with the financial resources they are to operate within. Whether it is more than natural for the European Commission to accept, as it were, unlimited overpowering authority on the resources provided by the Council and on what measures to take in order to repair if these documents are repeatedly broken. Well, it starts at the Senate fund office. I think action needs to be taken clearly. I think that the claim to the European Commission would be much more efficient if financial resources were only emptied and could not be applied further or subtracted; but, rather, the Minister's legal rights are simply emptied and forced to take on other measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u167	A respectable president. I'm gonna see if I'm not going to talk later and then take a little more into these psalms, how all of this works, but I'm not going to make use of that answer right now. But at the same time. A senator mentions. Two. 24th par. The law on public financial matters is presented by President's permission: ▪ A secretary makes decisions on making donations made from a reserve fund and informs the WHO budget of its use when a decision is made. I'm trying to say "no-brainer" in English, but I don't know how to do it right now. At least I find it very obvious that this is the way it should be. But I also wondered, " How does this happen in July or when a council is not working? ' There is another pain in my mind that I may be coming in for a talk later, I'll see. At any rate, I think it's simple that there's something more to do with the council. But then the problem arises that the council is always, or the longest, thinking things out of government interests; seeing that it survives and works. [[The president calls.]] It's the majority of problems that I obviously don't have time to go into here, but I might say a few things later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u168	Madam President. That's right. That's right. That's what's gonna go by you. A senator, that there might be significant improvements in the information provided by the Commission to the council. I think it needs a much more regular information delivery from the Commission on the implementation of budgets, the weaknesses involved, the measures being taken, including if you are using reserves or other measures to prevent future exiting. This should take place at intervals of much more than once or twice a year. I know that in the Ministry I served there was a very regular review of how the budget was working and whether there were weaknesses in the individual topic areas or not. It is easy for the Commission to deliver such reports to the budget board in a very regular way, to inform both how the reserves are being allocated, if they are being taken, or how the budget works otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u169	A respectable president. I have two comments and one question. Regarding education, I heard that when you begin to expect funds for 2018, e.g. Before high school, at the beginning of 2017. Funds were expected as soon as 2017. The Ministry is working according to its ending at the end of the year on budgets. That's what we need to stop. Note two: We often hear in the house: This was the law. Now we can make it clear that the law wasn't being followed, although I'm not putting on any court hat, I think it's very obvious. The question is about the temptation problem as easily as possible. A senator came in. There I see an opportunity for a financial committee and for the council to be extremely effective in financing the budget. It is a temptation to dig into the reserve, but it is to be an effective monitoring of the practicality, whether this is a proper use or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u170	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. In fact, I have to admit that in the last year's discussion of money making money, in the discussion of the new laws on public finance and in the discussions within the council, there was a very notable debate about the absence of interest, that would be completely exceptional in the case of such measures due to considerable, unseen, or unexpected expenditures. These funds contain such expenditures, as might be mentioned regarding advance payment and interest costs. But I think they're quite satisfied with the requirements. But it would be a song if we wanted to improve the project, because I think it is quite clear that we do not work in this way to the law, that the European Commission will explain much more about the construction of the budget so that we can see what is expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u171	President. Despite, like a whale. One member said that the Ministry is well aware that money supplies are not possible, however, these were the answers we received on a budget board as early as January, February, and February, when we followed up on how they were going to behave within the authority on various matters. It just came out, the money. Clearly, this plan is short. I also know what to do. A senator is interested in the problem of temptation. I understand him, but I also understand how we should achieve a particular conflict between the budget and the Allegorium and the council, if the temptation problem is there. The temptation problem is on this side, too, at the Generals, throwing money all over the place. However, we are naturally experienced in the past December, where there were no excesses, although some might have wanted to go further, others shorter, on various matters. This dierent need to be more successful now in the budget, that we are much better equipped for the 2019 budget after having handled financial programs very well and in good cooperation. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to seeing what it's gonna be like.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u172	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator tells me that I have a keen interest in this temptation. I think that as soon as a decision is made to open up funds, if you could say so, within the company some kind of a flood puzzle, it will be very tempting to flush in any amount of expenses that are more convenient than the next year's budget, especially in the usual case of living, that there will be more than anticipated. It is totally contrary to the spirit of law on public financial matters, and it must be maintained at such times. The regular information program, perhaps every two months, was being provided with the Senate budget reports on the implementation of the budget and how individual sources might have developed and were expected to prevent it, since there was not a sudden, altering situation between October reports and a financial donation in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u173	Madam President. I think the discussion on a budget committee has been quite interesting over the last two days, especially after it came out with the reserve, two days since the question came up, and we got the answers yesterday. The reserves have hardly been protected in any way. Counts 'em out. So a senator, in view of the time frame and where we are in it when we work so fast, was able to get this done? Because it's incredibly important about the budgets and the ratios and the things, if we take the interest costs and the contributions. There's 1% of the government expenses in a reserve really unused. This looks a little different. But count 'em why. A senator, where the dog is. A senator is a former minister, that it would have been possible to handle it in the administration system within this time frame, for years to finish going through this process in such a short time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u174	Madam President. The short answer is yes. I think that although we have received complete unsurpassed information on the reasons and measures taken to try to react or do something other than throw this into the budget, we were at least given the disintegrated position of reserves by segregated divisions and in the financial contributions by segregated by segregation. A relatively small amount of work in itself would simply have been to mate out there as there was room. Making decisions that the necessary arrangements for the rest of the reserve must always be the first step to empty the reserve when other measures to prevent expenses are emptied.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u175	Madam President. I think it's a perfect loneliness within the budget to handle these matters. We've learned a lot from the Committee in the past few days or days, they haven't. Senators sitting there. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator with regard to the time frame. There's something else I've been thinking about over the last few days on a budget board, i.e. the information and how it has been handled. Now's the time. A senator recently located from the minister's chair. What an attitude! A government official and how the authority often handles them, that the legislature authority will eventually give him the authority when things are settled? Let's have a look. A senator may be converted from a session to a budget committee during the past few days after previously sitting with the Commission?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u176	Madam President. No, my attitude has not changed. I also had the pleasure of serving as a financial committee a year ago before I became a minister's chair. I really care that the law works and that there's a very rigid frame around the project. I thought it was in the Minister's chair myself that obviously there was a very rich obligation to work within the current budget. Of course, a team is like they've been mentioned here. For example, in terms of a much higher rate of disability than expected, it is very difficult to react in a way other than to obtain financial resources if there are no other options. However, as indicated in the Federal Accounting matter, it must always be the decision of the government that when such weaknesses appear, the reserves of reserves have begun to be set aside. If you find yourself in a position where you can empty it, you might consider opening some money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u177	Madam President. I would like to begin my case by thanking the chairman and members of the budget board for satisfying cooperation in a most challenging and unusual situation. I allow me to count a great deal of unity among members of the Committee to improve the practice, especially with regard to the funds mentioned. I'm going to concentrate here on three substances, even if they're worth more work. First of all, I will discuss the relationship between an existing bill and a government law. I will take the lead in dealing with matters that focus on Lindahôli's holding organization and on the Department of Pension of Ministers of the State. Third, I will turn aside to the multitude of sheep farmers. The first to consider that there is nothing else to see, and to mention this example, but that in the budget bill, there are far too many sides, I allow to say, which do not match the warrants found in Article 26. it's a government law. This article is a very important article in which you can clearly identify the requirements for a minister to be allowed to search for additional financial resources in your bill for financial support. What are these conditions? The cost of the year is, first of all, temporary, otherwise unforeseen, and third inevitable. But then there is a fourth requirement that these expenditures could not be addressed, and these are, as some have been identified, as are stated in the official financial law. There is a measure of concern, then, that mere contact with this article is not better than it is, even if we are facing difficult situations and unusual political situations. If the bill is cut down almost at random to support this by example, by this association, it might be noted that the National Court acknowledges that expenses have been underestimated to 100 million. K. It's a natural sum of money. Another example is Lake Bay Park, 57 million. K., EEA, 100 billion. K. to increase the activities of a national guard. Of course, such questions can be asked: Is there anything unexpected or unexpected in this regard? There is also the contribution for the financial problem of Harpa. Is that something new? Is it not well known to all the people of the country that the base of the economy is very weak, so that it is not strong? In the fishing road back in the day, it was spoken of the operating ground block. I'm not going to take that word into my mouth here. So these little examples confirm that this document may not be fully respected. I'm going to allow me to view a great deal of solidarity and solidarity as being on a financial committee that the workforce will be improved in terms of this and the Committee will strengthen their work as a policy goal and as a follow-up. Before I take this point into account, I'd like to mention the fourth condition of the warrantment that the budget is not capable of dealing with the proposed expenditures of public funds, at least. Not in all cases, and perhaps most, before the confirmation of the minister that these measures were taken. Madam President. Six. Based on Lindahingol and the Pension Fund of the State. There is a search for the transfer of specified Linda property to the Bank of Pension for the State's Pentateuch against the changes in the commitment of the state's funds. True, I do not use the wording exactly as it is, do not have it in front of me. It doesn't matter. The question is, How appropriate is this arrangement to transport property of the kind that identifies the property classes in this holding society? It is reasonable to ask what experience is there in the State's Pentateuch on collecting requirements that will be taken into account in such collections, such as the stock agreement, the crusade, as mentioned, and the conditional rules of various kinds. The majority of the legal committees say, or at least they say, that the property of the head of the state's Pentateuch is well thought to be well-deserved property, as it says. It also claims that the LS have crossed the assets and evaluated them for the overall wealth of the fund and if they remain within its investment policy. Of course, I'm not questioning this in any way, but allow me to point out that no evidence has been submitted. The members of the State Department of Pension Fund have not visited the Committee. There are no data on this LS view and, as a matter of fact, was first reported on the opinion of the majority of the Committee. I allow myself, Madam President, to express a lot of concern over this, because of what I said before, that this is a very complex operation on dealing with this kind of property and collecting them and paying for the price. There is a great deal of work in the country, especially among lawyers, to discuss these points. Hence, it is reasonable to assume that the cost of collecting such demands may be considerable because it may be necessary to obtain expensive expertise as well as to deal with the cost of such. There is also no question about how this operation would be carried on by the State Pension Fund, as do other pension funds, requires a zealous commitment to the market - marketed holdings of what is said to apply to the obtained property now in Lindahöli, but it is assumed that they will be transferred to the Penitentiary of the State. The question is also, Where should such expenses fall? It's natural to think of it as having an equal place at a government fund, but with this arrangement it seems that at least He's at risk of landing at the State Pension Fund. There are no data to show what measures are made to meet this issue. Madam President. I reiterate that I'm most concerned about this and think it's rather risky to think that the property collections of the kind that appears to be around here, as it is said that in general these are not what are thought to be the market, suitable for the kind of work that would normally be the collections of pension funds. In the face of such demands, of what might be called the most complex kinds, much more is tested by expertise and expertise. Similarly, it would have been beneficial if Kingdom Accounting had already taken place to form the food that appeared during the last days on the value of these assets. Previously it was said that they were difficult to assess, but later it has been claimed to be worth one 19 billion; and it would have been helpful to have a government reexamination on these factors and the reasons for which they may have been given the basis for their evaluation. Madam President. The third point that I was going to make up the subject here is the problem of sheep raising that is being taken up in these materials. He's serious and he looks, at least to some extent, remain, at least not easily solved. As a result, it is disappointing that these budgets seem to replace short - term solutions to policy measures as expected in the public financial legislation. In 31st. it is specifically considered about the policy of citizens, as they are called, where it is recommended that such parties should shape policies for their activities at least every year. three more years. There the aims and general emphasis should be recorded, and how they will be reached for the proposed funds. We haven't seen such policies. On the contrary, a representative of the Ministry said that things were unsolved regarding such things. It will also be in accordance with the instructions of this Law code, paragraph 31. the law on government finances, the measures and criteria that are proposed to assess the effectiveness of the work and the results of this assessment for the next year. Madam President. When sheep farmers face problems of the same kind. has been created as a result of the closing of markets in Russia and Europe and a great difficulty selling these markets, it would have been necessary that in the affairs of this class, it would have been tented for more than one night, as it were. This is only a short-term solution, instead of the policies that govern public financial policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and would like to draw special attention to and thank you. A member of the budget board for his interest in the LS Protocol. I'd like to draw a little more attention to it, that's not been done well in the discussion so far. The committee's review revealed that this has actually been overdue. RACE has already been identified as to whether this library is suitable for them or not. This is being taken care of, because the budget of 2018 is not expected to contain this warrant. Tonight or tomorrow, it's time to finish. Done. But even though this has been analyzed, analyze the database between them, and make sure that all of these fit in, etc. This does not include any diagnostics for us on a budget board. Nothing. The General Assembly is simply kept apart from this process until a week before the New Year's Eve. We ask, we don't get any answers. We specifically asked if this would have any effect on the benefits of selling possessions in Lindahviol, if we were asking about some kind of report there, if it would produce some kind of different information from the LS than we could get through Lindahvol, because that is in place of recruitment. I just wanted to get more reaction from what I did. A senator with what I'm adding here on how little financial committees have been told what this warrant really means, to transfer it to an ISR from Lindahviol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u179	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The reply of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, and the words that fell there. This is truly a cause for concern. In this process, which put everything together extremely soon and was characterized by a lack of time at the latest stage of the case, new information is presented in the opinion of the greater part, i.e. that the LS have gone over and is assessed for proper use. But as I said in my speech, so I reiterate it, without denying the truth of the claims it made, would have benefited that this would have followed the data from the pension fund on the nature of this analysis, the expertise of the pension fund considered necessary to obtain these properties, the opinion of the amount of pension paid on how it will be handled, whether it will provide a considerable cost as far as I could in my speech, including. The collection of expert articles, possible lawsuits, general expert advice and the like. So I don't think that it's violent if you allow yourself to express a lot of anxiety over these tactics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u180	President. It appeared in 1st. The case was the case when the secretary of finance reviewed this with the RSR that it was probably a review of the committee, a list of the properties involved. But we were just explained that no, there were individuals, and so on. Clearly, we were able to get some information. Even the information about the potential values is not available to us. Who knows it's just a fee and a lawsuit and something like that, which was a really good question at the time. A member of the Committee. Increased costs, just that it really costs us to get rid of them. We have no idea. I feel like there's the dog buried in this process, we don't know anything. There are apparently some others who know more, and then I mean the project. That does not answer our questions. Then all the bells start with me: But I'm sorry, we're supposed to keep track of the executives and make sure that they're not overuseing their power in some way that we should naturally be able to break it down. I'm calling for more information on this case. There's got to be some way to transfer this warrant in the next year, so it's not just done tomorrow and it's out of our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u181	Yes, Madam President. I think it may have been reasonable even to say that when it comes to such great interest, there is so much uncertainty about the value of these assets, when it is obvious that these assets may have been extremely busy and costly in all the treatments they need, including collecting them, perhaps more clearly, I'm going to say that this point did not have been plunged into this channel of financial reforms with a certain speed writing, of course it must be said. I think that everyone would accept it, even though they had fought hard to be careful, and certainly all the opportunities were on the side of the committee, it may seem more rash than you would have chosen when such interests are under and delicate. Let us remember, too, that we are talking about a very important factor in the financial development of a government fund, which is a financial relationship between the state funds and the retirement funds of the government. And when such an opinion seems to exist about the defined property, it is obvious that it is unsupervised without any information being submitted that could be deemed satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u182	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good speech, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. It seemed to me that it was specific, specific, and thus practical. Hv. A candidate generally entered his talk on public financial laws and the use of reserves and what may not be considered. It has to do with the fine discussion that has been going on today. I agree with what. At the same time, a senator declares that it is the same and will of the committee to improve the entire structure within the framework set by the government laws. Hv. The senator spoke of the assets taken from Lindahölol, a companion founded to handle property from stables in a special law in his day. There a sun set was installed and stated that property value should be maximed, normally. This is the channel to transfer these assets to the Pension Fund for the head of the state. It's a pretty good report on the opinion of the greater part. Hv. A senator asked additional questions, since the committee was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and a memo specifically on this subject and explained it in the majority wing. Ask me what. A senator is very good and will be discussed on the scene of the committee. Otherwise, I don't have any questions. I want to thank you. A senator's contribution and input and cooperation with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u183	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir and the chairman of Willum Þór Þórsson's budget for his word. I agree with this and view that the committee is very united under his direction to improve the structure within the framework set by the government laws on public finances. It is natural that the receiving of these very important laws and needed laws is a progressive step in all behalf of the State's financial structure. Now we can see that we are applying them more closely in specific matters than we have already done. Perhaps you might ask: The life span of this fine company, Lindaphols, is limited and will end in a more predictable future, but it is probably not patted on rocks, rather than on other human plans. You might ask yourself, " Would it even have been better if instead of resorting to some temporary mobilization of these assets, so risky and costly as they appear, had been a better way of resorting to resorting to some of the life - saving periods of this society and making more difficult for the resources that might be involved in the provision of these gifts? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u184	A respectable president. I'm going to mention a few things about this, even though I have to first admit that I haven't been able to study the subject of the bill as much as I normally wanted to do. There are other things to do at the council, as people know. However, there are some points that have been presented during the discussion that I would like to discuss. They deal with the situation and the way we handle the budget and take our jobs at the General Assembly. The first thing I'd like to say is technically. You see, with the help of the spirit of that spirit. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir got into the official financial law, in the 16th century B.C.E. 3mg, following line, with permission of president: It should be available in a computer format and in an open media, and these data should be available to all in the post-requisite fashion. We were very happy that we had received this slag. It has made it possible for the Ministry of Economics to produce this database of funding on her web in a so-called CSV format, which, in short, is an overexcited simple format which is easy to install into a computer, in a table plan, in a program, or anything. I have looked at these data and am quickly satisfied with them, although I have not yet had the opportunity to work with them and to play with them in a way that I could do more time and time. Here's my point on the budget: this paragraph we managed with the help of what we did. A senator coming in doesn't say he's got any extra money. Saves are not yet available in this format. I know that most people have a hard time. Congress officials would never use this template, or probably not, though this actually happened to a pill calculus, and I challenge it to a sledgehammer. Senators who use a table calculus to try to put this into a table play. It can be beneficial to do that on its own. But there's no such thing as the budget. I've contacted the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs and asked if there's any reason to put it out anyway. I'm waiting for an answer from that, but I hope this law doesn't need to be changed. I wanted to mention this because it matters and will matter more and more as time passes. That's all I'm going to say about that particular point. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, there are some things that are at home in financial terms that are extremely bad. It hurts for many reasons. Since I know that someone may feel that I am going from one place to another in this speech, let me make it clear that I am going to go into the Constitution, see the bill of the Board of Directors, and what it is relevant to this matter. I'm saying this in advance because I'd like to reiterate that it has something to do with it and that it shouldn't be surprised because the constitution is the foundation on which we're building these laws. In the new constitution, e.g. Sixty-niner. which would include the article in the current Constitution of the government's authority to provide financial resources. She's just different, I'm not going much into her because she's not much different. In fact, it is physically the same, but perhaps you could argue that it is stronger than the one we have. Well, that's not the main thing. But I'll get to it a little later. For those of you who want to take the lead in euphoric affairs, I'm going to cover the 91 st. When I reach that point, the bill of the administration board. But let's start at the beginning. Like I said, it's not a good idea that in any of the budgets, there are things that come up in the budget. Everyone seems to agree, at least in word. There's a few things bad about this. In the discussion, the egghead bill doesn't have the same seat. That's problem number one. The media do not pay as much attention to this discussion as they observe the discussion on budgets. In addition, we are talking about the amount, often considerable and in big matters, that do not come into the discussion or the media, and that do not even capture the attention of all members of the council who are concerned, because this discussion takes place at a very different time, when the budget is in another place of discussion, occurs at a different time, and under different circumstances. That's confusing the discussion. It's the damage. I look forward to seeing, or hope that I should look forward to seeing it, whether it will be approved with the proposal to add up the budget by 300 million to make it possible for higher schools to finance trades in industry. We'll see about that later. But here in the discussion, there were many who felt that everyone agreed to do the right thing. I think that's basically true. That, however, is a problem. It is this: Public financial laws are very recent. The first time that budget was made at the General Assembly after that, it happened in the political instability that we seem to be getting used to. Then it happened again now. We chose again in October, there is a time pressure on the budget, and again we have the plots that have been tithed enough so that I don't have to go out again. This means that our treatment of money and financial resources will start very badly on the basis of public financial laws. It's really bad, really bad that the beginning is so bad. It's not about who it's blaming, it's just bad and it's creating a problem. It has long, if not always, been so predictable expenses are placed, not in budgets, but in funds. It is the tradition that has now been given to continue, when it was exactly one of the goals of government funds that I voted for, while I remember, to prevent it. The tradition has now extended beyond this point. That is very bad, for it generates a very bad motive for those governments who intend to correct it. If a financial minister or someone were to accept it and say that we were going to stop using any of these and the others and put it in the bill for financial purposes, that would mean that it was a bill that was different from what was previously submitted. Between years of comparison, it would be a little more complex, only more vague and only ostentatious. That also distorts the discussion. I'm sure if this was taken up, I'll give myself, in fact, that there's more of the visible expenses that get into the budget than an unexpected amount, maybe I'm wrong, but I'm giving it to myself, it would look like a huge increase in budgets if it wasn't. This makes a motive, I think, for the government to maintain the damned tradition of pushing things into the budget. At least, it's not a special impulse to stop it, so I'm sure, except that we're being harassed by members of the Council. I believe this to be a particular problem, something that may be solved by understanding if the main critics and people, especially politicians, questioned by the media, could answer with the sense of such a change that not all numbers would be evidence of an increase in expenses or making plans for more money but would be moving in advance of the known amount of money to the budget. If we can approach it with that understanding, this may be possible. But I fear that the political motivation is there to continue this evil tradition. I hope I'm wrong, like many other things. We spoke earlier about the maintenance of the Allied Congress with the government when it comes, for example. That's money money. We only talked about 26. a law on public financial matters where a minister is permitted, if necessary, to take the financial means. The questions arise about the issues, such as so many other concerns about government financial and behavior, where the responsibility is to enforce it, and what means are there to enforce it. The answers are always: A general council has a surveillance and surveillance role, and men can meet and state an opinion, and we can waive here in a pit and vote against the budget. I guess that's the device itself, the only complete client that I see. Of course, that does not work that way, for we must need better resources that will not go on cutting down money or dropping financial funds. Surely, we could do so without going that far. I'm sure we can, for example. move things between the bills, or something like them, or take them in early enough to fit into the budgets that otherwise come into interest. Something we need that we don't have right now. I believe that's a fact. I think the facts show that we need some kind of equipment to do that. As a matter of fact, we are in general at the General Assembly, not just in this case, with a little control of governments. Then I'll come into the government and the Allied relationship. Our idea is that the General has control and control of the government. That's a great idea. This is supposed to be the leader of the republic, and it's on paper. But then governments are formed from a greater part of the Generals. This means that the more things work to a great extent, depending on how governments can continue and maintain their government. It's so deeply established in Icelandic politicians that if the government fails, we don't agree with the election, the General election, when there's no great lack of confidence in the General Assembly in the community, when no one calls for it, but because the General Assembly lacks master. What is it? A greater part of the council is needed for a comparison, so that the General is in effect. What an insult to the Republic's own ideal, I say. But there it is. We live in this troubled, limited world. What has sometimes been done in some places is set up minor governments. To reiterate it again and again, minorities are not the least of them. The majority of the Generals are still in charge. The difference is that the project ceases to be the master. That's the difference. Under such circumstances, I think the General would be much better equipped to perform his surveillance and maintenance role in a reliable manner. A majority of the Generals would not then have the same strong political interests as the government, that it has to survive. That's not our first goal anymore. That's one of them, for of course, you want a power of action, which is pretty much constant. You don't want to get rid of the government if there's no cause. This is done elsewhere, in Denmark. It happens somewhere else, but things are a little different. It may be reasoned that the arrangement we are to get used to here does not offer well the minority governments. I myself believe that we should start by testing. This may go crazy, but the majority of governments also generally fail, at least in the past, from the collapse of the Sikhs - except the left control of 2009-2013, who, although in fact, remained in smaller parts at the end. They did it. That was a very special time. I'm on the level that this is totally possible according to the current constitution and current Parliamentary rules. I just think our politicians are assuming that the only way to control is to control everything. There's a certain lack of faith in the strength of argument, fact, a certain lack of faith in the idea that a government could go to the Generals first and say, "This is what we're thinking, what do you say?" This would be done in advance, that would be customary. This happens from time to time, that I usually think with good results, such as the making of foreigners at the time, although many things may also be criticized by the product, perhaps the nature of the sect. But better than the government's ready to move through, and then throw them into the hands of the Generals, to reinvent everything by means of treatment and to make as much a part of the General Assembly as possible. What does that have to do with a constitution? It is relevant in that the establishment of religious authority and the relationship of government and Generalis, which goes up to minority governments, and therefore the actual separation of the European Commission and the legal authority, is based on the ability of the government and the general body of generals to change governments or individual ministers without the immediate need to go to General elections. This may not always be so that if something is wrong or something needs to change, everything has to go. It prevents much good things, positive changes, not just politics, but in general. It's not good if the rules are such that it's either this particular government or it's ruined, and we have to go back to General elections. I think that's a very bad situation. Now I'm getting to 91st. The bill of a board of governance that deals with distrust. I'm going to read it, I just look like I'm just so close, by permission of the President. The Council of the Council offers a proposal for mistrust in a minister. A suggestion for confidence in the prime minister shall include an proposal for his successor. A minister is granted a release if a greater proportion of members agree to a proposal to distrust him. A solution is given to the government if a greater proportion of members agree to a proposal to distrust the prime minister. There's nothing radical about this. Really, the idea is that if they're going to create distrust - which is what governments fear, isn't it? It makes it possible for governments to have more part of the council to protect themselves from distrust, which is a good goal, of course you want to be able to do so. It needs to be done in minority governments too. There are always classes to promise that, at least, the government will accept financial laws and defend the government, probably against certain conditions, without necessarily being a member of the government. It needs to be done in minority governments anyway. But with this arrangement, there would be distrust and continuation. There would not always have to be a breach in the General Assembly and a new election, according to this article. This would give us an opportunity to establish the interaction, the relationship between the European Commission and the legislature authority that was much normal and would help us to maintain and monitor things such as financial and financial support. There are a lot more articles that I could go into the bill of the Council of Control that I think would improve things. I'll mention one thing, since I have some time left and that's that the Ministers don't have a vote. I think it's more important than people realize. Actually, I'm not gonna have a long fist about it. I'm gonna finish my case by saying that 91st. The bill of the Council of Government is not necessarily perfect. I've heard a lot of criticism of her, including. that, in effect, it would make it that with mistrust in government, the Allied Council would not be broken and not declared total elections. Isn't that just nice? This is done. We do not choose to be executives in Iceland, we vote for Generals, the highest agency in the state, the agency to support and monitor the government, not vice versa. In this matter, I feel that the truth is crystalting again. Although I seem to go outside the material quickly, the Constitution and the Constitution in general have much to say about our work here and therefore much to say about how we are doing. It's important. There's hardly a month that goes by before something happens in politics without me thinking of something in a management board bill that would at least make things a little better, at least CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 We should discuss it better. I haven't had any conversation in a Senate room about 91st. The bill of the administration board, but it'd love it very much and probably be good. I'm gonna make this work for now, Mr. Honorable President, I know people want to go home. I propose that the meetings of the World Council committees will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u185	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for an interesting speech, though a little dissociative, as he mentioned. He has many interesting concerns. I'd like to start by saying something to him about the process itself, i.e. on the official financial law, which all of us have made here as a subject of talk. I had a word with the highest. Prior to this discussion, the prime minister has these laws, and they are in effect. Of course, they are designed in a certain way, but they simply have to obey the law. Still, we have somehow decided not to do so because they are not suitable because circumstances are not as expected by the law. I think it would be a sobering thought if others chose to say: "The law isn't right, it wasn't expected that I would get into this situation, so I'm not going to follow the law. Much has been discussed, but let us try to correct matters rather than the other. But what I wanted to think about is the maintenance of the Commission, the reserve that has also been quite a factor in the discussion and the budget. The question was discussed on the subject of a checkbook, which should be taken off, and then the question is: Should we aim to avoid paying off anything unless there is any authority? So should we adopt the arrangement to make use of the reserve, but we have a budget, or the value of it just more often, we would like to, for example. ... witha budgetin April, October and December? It will help you to avoid sharing money with others except by the pre-supervise of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u186	A respectable president. I don't necessarily have all the solutions to this, but it's interesting in itself that there's a lot in the law that's not being carried out. It's, for example. legalities that I tried to look up at this brief time but failed, unfortunately, which is about the fact that the committee should identify things that they do not. Then it is said that this article has never been applied. Interesting terms legal, as are other aspects of Congress and beyond. Now I wish we were discussing the bill of the Board of Government because there are so many things worth talking about. In the bill as it was submitted by a management and surveillance committee, that is 69.3.3. ... involvedon payment warrants. It states, by permission of the president, in the first paragraph: No payment can be made unless it is legalized. Then comes the second paragraph: However, for the approval of the Allied Fundament Committee, Ministers of finance can provide without such authority to meet the State's payment because of unscheduled cases or if the public interests require it. Such payments should be searched for information in financial terms. This article appears to be somewhat different from what is in force. The current constitution simply says that no payment can be made unless it is authorized by means of financial or financial funds. In the treatment of this matter, when the Council was discussed at 141 C.E., a administrative and monitoring committee was added to financial or financial laws. So I'm not sure that this would have a lot to say, but I think it might be important if the warrant was totally confined to a constitution, not to a public or a political body or such laws, but to the republic's constitution, it would be strictly forbidden to pay this money unless it was an unsurpassed case or if it was required by public interest. I would think it would be considerably more difficult for a government to violate a constitution, but it is for her to refrain from applying the unique laws on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's so weird about the law and the whole thing. We are natural in terms of the budget and what it can be and the conditions it needs to meet. We have repeatedly considered what is unforeseen and unexpected and cannot be avoided. It seems like they can interpret it very freely, so you put it that way. We've been talking, e.g. The brochure was written to provide information on a variety of ways that gifts may be made either now or through a bequest at death. You wonder how on earth we can be teased, and I'm not talking to the present government right now, but in general in this relationship. Especially did I rejoice when there was an extension of a student in trade school who had to pay physical expenses. It was then noted that this was in a special way, since there was no special fund to pay for the cost of school. It so happens that now there is a change in proposal for the budget bill that goes off on it and is from the Piranha, and I don't remember who else was on the case, to the same amount. Hence, it will be very interesting to see whether this will be done in advance or to follow this change in the budget of the budget itself, which involves this change, to accept an proposal for the 300 million that costs it. I'm really excited and I'd like to know if it's okay. A senator is as excited as I see how this will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u188	A respectable president. I described my theory earlier today at a vote, where I predicted that the majority of the items would vote against all the proposals of the smaller part. I am truly optimistic now that this cursed theory can be refuted, for of course it is terrible if it is true. At least I hope like what I do. Senator that it is possible in this case to get more part to accept a proposal from the smaller section. It would be a pleasure to see it, even if it was, of course, because more initiative was made to withdraw the proposal and make it necessary to provide extra funds. I'm excited about that, and certainly hope that my theory will fall. But, hey. A senator asks how we can be teased. I think that the excessive part of the problem is this unhealthy relationship between the Generals and the Government, the legislature and the executives, and I think that there would be quite a lot of things that would get better with making them clearer and more real. I also think we've neglected our constitution. The forces opposed to these changes have prevented them, unfortunately. I think a lot of material in the Council of Control and followed by the bill of the Board of Directors and Commission at 141th is totally worth the discussion. I think if we were just to sink into subject talk about it, we'd all see a lot of solutions to a variety of such problems here in a town that all members of Congress should be able to accept, and the government, if it goes on. Sadly, though, there seems to be too little interest in that important matter. That's very boring, because the Constitution is the root of everything we do here, the root of all the reasons we might have for being here to begin with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u189	A respectable president. It is appropriate to continue the discussion just because it relates to 41 st. The constitution we're dealing with. We did not discuss the material aspects of the budget during the discussion earlier. I wanted to skim over what we have. There are some cases here, e.g. U.S. District Courts. The search warrants are referred to there as a means of transfer. There's going to be a compromise. Then I wondered if it would be necessary to reflect the transfers into the budgets, if that was normal. If that's normal, it's very nice, then the warrant's in the right place. That gives you permission to move. Permissions already authorised, however, are being used for another class. The minister makes the transfer, explains it, and then it's a real thing for financial aid. That's a better way to treat the 41st. The Constitution and clear that a minister is authorized to pay. Article 3 discusses administrative matters. It refers to the office of the president of Iceland and that in the basement of a guesthouse for years, moisture was maintained. For years. But now there is a need for action and immediate action. I call attention to the law on public finances that says that it needs to be unpredictable. I don't see that it's anything unexpected now, especially at the end of the year, if it's been like this for years. These projects are likely to start. I guess they're just done. I don't know, though. To foreign affairs. It speaks of developing cooperation in support of Greenland as a result of an earthquake. In particular, it says that the government has agreed to go to that growing cost. I make a note that it will fall under foreign affairs. It might as well fall under government decisions, past the 34th topic field. But because this is about Greenland, it may have to go into foreign affairs. Who knows? However, this is an interesting location with regard to these two teams. We have, for example. I don't see what the situation is on a topic panel on government decisions. It's not tall, it's about 170-180 million. There's only 40 million there to support Greenland. No doubt there are other decisions that might be subject to government decisions. I feel that it is much more used than the amount of the topic party indicates. At the 10th topic, you will discuss the individual rights, that there are contributions to the language of foreigners because of the rapid increase in applications for international protection. The increase was predictable. It was submitted to by the Ministry as early as December of last year. Certain stage photos were put in place. I don't know why the 2017 budget didn't reflect that amount. The committee then had a very short period of time to review the matter, but at the same time, they had just accepted new laws about foreigners, which provided a number of sources to take on costly measures. The amount is high enough to finance the Foreign Institute and Department of Foreign Affairs. A few new committees could be developed to shorten the waiting period for sources around which the highest cost is concerned. The question is, could half of that amount be used simply to have two counts and two foreign agencies to settle matters faster than taking half more? Again regarding religion, there is nothing unpredictable. This has been done before. A common sentence is shown in the budget of the Ministry of Justice: no valid financial response was made. I don't understand what that word means. People knew about this, but didn't they get a chance to win it into the bill? So it's unpredictable or what? I don't know. I don't think this is a good word. I miss each team explaining why certain lawsuits should go to budgets and why not. In the past, I noticed only about transport and communications that there is an estimated 400 million. K. contribution to the unpredicted cost of drafting. We got a memo that only breaks it apart. There are 208 million to meet the unforeseen costs of Hertlf's withdrawal and the rent of squares during the repair process, but there are 192 million to meet the cost of indexing contracts due to support transport. There are 4.2% of that class, which is far beyond index binding. According to the Ministry's comments, this was a cumulative cost of inflation or something similar. It also includes a decision to increase the number of travel events, which are, in fact, beyond contracts. There is no authority to put on such things, and there is also no particular problem that there was reason to collect additional documents. There's one thing missing sometimes, what if there's a million around here or 500 thousand that's put together with some other team, as a result of Esther being longer in a scrap than expected, being brought under that authority? I see, for example. not that the cost of cost of public transportation can go to 400 million. K. a contribution to the unpredicted cost of drafting. If that is a price, it is obviously not allowed to use that authority to perform any other assignment or to pay some inflation on public transportation in other parts of the country. I talked here about the agriculture before. It clearly does not follow the terms of budgetary laws, which are spoken of as adding 665 million. More than anything else, there are 100 million who are making changes to 50 in building projects in the field of carbon equations, innovations, and marketing. It's an additional assessment of the restructuring system. I don't think it's a project that's already started and that hasn't been won and so it hasn't been paid. There's got to be a warrant in advance, I guess. I don't know anything about that. But obviously next year this is to be done. Why, then, is this not in the next year's budget? The part about righting a market failure in farmers may be appropriate for the interest, but not for these things. This is another example of a combination of items that are to be arranged for financial aid, such as roughness. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned here earlier today. So it's more to cover 2018's budget, to make them look better than any other budget. Then there will be a transfer of the amount that makes them a little more beautiful. At least that's what it looks like. Regarding culture, art, sports, and youth, there was talk of Harpa earlier. It's an exercise to get a cash problem in business. I don't know if it's unpredictable either. It seems that there is a temporary increase until 2017, but the agreement was made in 2013. This may be temporary, but certainly not unexpected, is the 2013 accord. Apparently, this is because of much higher real estate costs than expected. Once entered, they are highly predictable, much higher than expected. It's just a question of when it fell into the formula and how unpredictable it is that cash is missing into the business. Finally, there is an increase in the budget for the grammatical project, which is good and blessed, of which there are 30 million. I can't quite figure it out. There must be something that has been done during the year and that subsequent release is being obtained. I haven't been able to cross the entire team very well yet, but I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to. In the section of unorthodox education and education at school, pay and prices are expected to be partly funded by an increase in sectoral income. These are the financial resources of the Deaf and the deaf. Contract agreements made it out of the budget. Still, at any rate it is assumed that the reserves are being stored in advance for collective agreements if they go ahead. It should've gotten into the reserve. Regarding hospital care, we talk about meeting the expenses of an older debt due to Pension bonds. Right away it gives me a clue that there's no surprise, let alone temporarily. That must have an effect for the next few years. There is clear evidence in all matters, very many factors, that they do not fall under the terms of budgets. Some of them fall into the process, and some of them fall into a normal financial process. There are several more things here, like the medication, there's nothing unseen there. There is nothing unseen about the aid tools. A major variation from the civil law on when money needs to be raised is likely to come in this review. But I miss the fact that we haven't had time to complete a material review, and I just have to leave it at this point. It will probably mean that some members of the council must shoulder the responsibility to accept the financial support bill just as it is. I don't trust myself to stand in the way of this because I haven't been able to look closely at each authority for her that I know if it applies to money supplies or not. But there are a few articles that I think I can absolutely be sure aren't supposed to be there, and I think it's just a vote how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u190	V.E.G. President. I recommend more of that committee party. Funds on bill for budgets for 2018, 3rd Environment. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. as is the custom. First, I'd like to step in with the comments of a Union Icelandic country partner, including the U.S.A. comments are made during the follow-up in the bill because of a contribution to music study. The majority felt right to make a point of knowing that a discussion is beginning to review a current agreement to support music education and the equation of a student's facilities for music study. The majority feel that it is reasonable that these talks will try to explain more clearly how to extrapolate contributions to music instruction as well as that additional donations will be negotiated if it is found that contributions on budget have been miscalculated. However, the majority of the items do not suggest a change because of this. The more part makes the suggestion for the following adjustment, which is found in a special Senate document that includes two remuneration extensions and four correctations, as well as the proposed changes between 5 and 6. The bill. The two changes that include additional expenditures are suggested by 7 billion. K. temporary contributions for two years to the foreign service that will be used to offer assistance and services to the former president of Iceland for various projects that remain on his table after he leaves office. It is estimated that the additional cost of the State Department is up to 7 billion. K. Every year, about 5.5 million. K. for pay and about 1.5 million. K. for travel costs. In neighboring countries it is customary for former national leaders to offer such services and former presidents of Iceland, Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, to have such assistance and services. Then the greater part proposes a temporary contribution to the Norwegian volcano site at the University of Iceland's Geological Institute, 10 million. K. Over the past few years, funding has been divided between the Norwegian Ministers and the Icelandic Ministers, but now it has been decided at the branch office to reduce financial gains to the coronal institutions and thereby to the volcano site for the next year and finally stop them completely in 223 C.E. The site plays an important role in response to a volcanic disaster. There are both instruments and expertise in certain fields of volcanoology that exist nowhere else in this country. The purpose of this project is to weigh in part the decline of the budget from the Norwegian Minister in 2018. So these two suggestions include additions to the remuneration side, while other suggestions include corrections and corrections and translocations. Then there is a larger item with a change at paragraphs 5 and 6. The bill. Five o'clock. makes more of the item a proposal to raise the Vault walk loans by 1,000 billion. K. Is this consistent with the approval of the Council of the Council since June 1 of this year in a special legal warrant for a minister on the behalf of a government fund to finance the construction of a funeral under Mount Vadala. This law expects the budget of each year on the bill to be considered as a budget for that year. Is this now done by this change and consistent with the change adopted by the Council earlier this summer? The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes explained in this committee study and proposed in special Parliaments. Under the order of the centuries. Senators, more of the time. Willum Þór Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u191	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat the speech I held here. Um... that's a relatively short period of time since we had a physical discussion about this bill. Nevertheless, I'm going to mention a few things I'd like to say to the 3rd. Money, which is critical. We in the United States have criticized this financial bill of the state of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. We think it's a betrayal of voters and total lack of ambition in welfare. This is inconsistencies to what most members of the council here, if not everyone said about a high level of welfare and education. As a result, on the day the majority of stakeholders who visited the Committee were very negative toward this bill. There was no satisfied with the bill, that is not in harmony with what was promised just seven to eight weeks ago. We in the United States have compared the bill with the budget of the government that exploded in the fall. We think it's a fair and reasonable comparison. There was an election between the two of us. The political groups, especially the left green, set their policies on the board of voters and wanted to fix and modify the bill laid down by an advanced government in September. That bill was bad in their opinion, and big words fell about that bill; right starving policy, miserable etc. All right. What happened then? Left greens go to the government, negotiate to get three ministers' chairs and to achieve only two percentages of the change in this terrible bill that they were critical of a few weeks ago. There's no result. I know that under those criticisms, but it's still justified. The result is not in harmony with what the left promised and when socialists finally become prime minister of the nation. This financial bill of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir is 98%, like the bill proposed by theocracy. In terms of the budget board, the bill takes only a small change, 0.2% in detail. So the overall change in this evil bill is 2.2%. So let's just play it cool. I know, of course, that you can't do everything right now, I'll figure it out completely. But there could be so much more to do. The range is now. We still leave these groups for which we believe to be a warning, the elderly, the desperate, the poor children's lives, etc. Not everything is coming up - the senators know - though we trust the income routes, as the United States has suggested, or remember the rest if the income route is too difficult for the groups in this regard. It is political news about how the left greens have paid votes for the change in the memory of the part here and before Christmas. It's a macropolitic story in my opinion to see each senator up against the left green, pushing the no-button. No, they're not gonna raise child support. No, they're not going to raise interest rates. They do not intend to place their crowns in their maternity, nor do they pay any more for the house - to - house affairs. Nothing's taken over. They do not even want to put the necessary money in the hospital so that they can keep the disappeared, keep the sea. We're not talking about any injections, they don't even trust them to put it in the business the National Hospital calls on just to maintain a functional function. The same can be said of health centers in the country. Their high court officials said it was missing, um... One billion people to keep their work stable so that no departments would have to close and resign. A financial committee added 400 million. Would it have killed someone in this hall if we had added another 600 million? Of course not! So here is a clear political view that the governments are not talking about what they said about injection into welfare matters. That's why this bill is so disappointing. The older citizens and the poor have expressed great dissatisfaction with the bill. Why not do more with this group than it does here? The high school officials met with a financial committee and said: "The high school has reached its limit of endurance. Okay, why aren't we going to be there? They're calling in 400 million. It is not that we cannot meet these institutions that are calling for public attention and money. The government groups were boasting about this morning that they would not cast material expenses at the high school field of students. But I still haven't seen an adjustment made from the greater part, where they're going to finance the proposal they pulled back here this morning, which was up to 300 million. The governments have been boasting that they have been putting an extra 400 million net in high school. If the change is not made from the greater part, high school needs to cover 300 million. K. costs. I certainly hope that the majority of the items will not start using next year's funds, after all the discussion that has taken place here on the clear will of all members of the council who participated in it, in order not to abuse the funds we've been doing all day long. The union and other groups provided ambitious suggestions for the 2nd. to put the material resources into these key elements, including major offense against violence to deal with the problems the #methoo revolution has shed light on, on conditions that are not acceptable. It was a suggestion that the left of the green fell right before Christmas. We were calling back another 800 million to increase the number of policemen and improve the treatment of sexual abuse in the community. Again: This amount would not have put anything on its side. If we take all of this together, it's about 18 billion that would be possible to cover the government's revenues and votes, whether they look to the carbon or to increase the income of tourists. Of course, we can make more money from our resources, the wealth tax should, of course, be on the table, etc. Indeed, the methods are available so that this injection could have been met in these essential welfare matters without reducing the rest of the centenarian government, if the Jakobsdóttir of Katrín had any means at all to trust in the bank of the state's income foundation at the very height of its rise. It's supposed to be. It's a responsible economic policy to rely on the financial bases of the state when there's ablation in the economy right now. The nation has been calling for this infrastructure. There is a transnational conspiracy to put more money, such as. in the hospital and clinics, in a major campaign of violence, in child - welfare, in interest of interest. But why is that not done? The adjustment proposal we make, and in line with the change in the unit today, is about 1.5 billion in child damages. Materially, it is the same proposal that was discussed here this morning. This would make sure that pediatrics would not be affected by minimum wage. I'm not going to repeat this discussion here, but $1.8 billion is less than that, but it cost a fortune when senators chose not to raise the carbon back as it was. That operation cost $2 billion. If left greens had relied on them to raise the amount of carbon, this green category, as it were, we could have financed these changes that make it appear that people on the minimum wage get unsatisfactory children's compensation. We're not talking about any political impossibility. We are talking about what is possible and possible if it was a political wish. The work here is speaking like anywhere else, and it's obvious that there's simply no political will with left greens - I'm focusing on them, I have faith in them even though they are shrinking - for putting money in child care, in interest of interest, in housing, in delivery grounds, in Land Hospital, in health institutions in the country, etc. I have asked my friends in the left green, "Why was there a fight? " What was the point? Senators campaigning to talk to the nation, talking about this essential infrastructure? Today's your chance. Councilmen left green to show that they are a group of welfare people who care about poor people and care that everyone has equal opportunities. But we didn't see these works talking here. Again, I repeat, the income routes are there. There's plenty of opportunity to take the action the Conspiracy just called out for. That's why this bill is so disappointing. I hope that the discussion that takes place here will echo into society. We're in politics with a vision. We're in politics because we're gonna be successful. We want to make a good society better. While we have 6,000 poor children, society is not good. Society is not good when people who are under minimal are not allowed to get minor children's benefits. It's not a good society when we see that 19,000 people in this community suffer year after year. Hold it. Senators that we will correct their interests, face the anxieties of this group, when the breakdown begins? No, of course not. Because now's your chance. A council to keep up with the big words and to make sure that being invalid or growing old in Iceland is not supposed to mean poverty. You don't have to have the community in this way. We need to promote equal opportunities. I handled it in my talk to the 2nd. The fact that the discrepancies are a big problem. From this time and again, from a number of senators, I hear that the income equation is just pretty high in Iceland. Don't complain. The Gini factor is relatively favourable. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. We need to keep in mind that we are often talking about rather old numbers when we have the OECD comparison. But let's look at the property status. That's where the worry is. In view of property, what is the equation? 5% of the richest Americans have almost as much of a clean estate as any of their own money, and the other 95%. This is not a community of equal or equal tools. Let's just get together. Let's take 20% of the richest people. According to tax returns, they own 90% of the clean property of this community. Why do we not use the tax system to work on this inequities? Inflexible is bad for economic growth. IMF and economists have noted that inequities and discrimination are bad. Some political parties enjoy an excellent life - style of bread, but all real economists have signed it down. We need to promote more equations, more equalizing opportunities. This makes us valuable. Thus we create an ideal and exciting country in which our young people have a taste for working and doing their part, having passion for setting up an enterprise and creating valuables. But as long as this is the case, we live in a society where little moose live in all other regulations, other tax environments, and such things - and the extraordinary understanding of the government that the burden of this group is not to be increased. This is incredible. We have seen internationally that rich people around the world are calling for a more righteous tax system. Why do we not participate in that change? Why don't we make the whole tax system more righteous? We have a chance to do that. Once again, it ends with political will. It doesn't always mean to hide behind the fact that we'll just do it some other time. Now believe in us, just do it later. Now's your chance. Why do older ones and microadolescents and children's families always have to wait year after year? Why does this have to be so complicated? I hope so. Councilmen, though I have no faith in it, view the changes in the memory of the section, which are designed to increase child support and growth improvements, positive eyes. This is your last chance. This is his last chance at the council of the left green to show that it's the welfare party he called himself, at least. ... beforetheelection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u192	V.E.G. President. As I have heard this talk three times, it is a pleasure to hear it often. I want to ask you why. A senator; an increase in carbon charge, on whom does the senator think it will land? Doesn't it just happen to the public? The wealth tax, the last to land on which it landed mainly when it was here from 20101⁄2013? I want to ask you why. Because he is also legalized, if he believes that the same wealth tax that was laid here in his day would work under the circumstances of society today in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court at its time, if he has read it. I don't think it's any point to come here and talk about -- even if it's a foreign word, I use the same word as before. A senator, who was asked to start a business, tries his luck. There isn't any passon, and there won't be any passon in the Icelandic community to do that. There will be no tax proposals at that time. A senator and his party for execution. There's an equation greater than anywhere else, and there's probably no more. When you listen to this speech over and over again; a billion here and a billion there, none of this puts down the state funds, but when we take all these billions together, the government's not going to be very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u193	The President's gonna tell you why. Congress members claim it is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u194	Mr. President. Who's got an increase in carbon charge? Yeah, tax is paid by companies and people, I get it. But it's a w-w-what. A senator that doesn't land on the public to have a child - welfare team, as it turns out? Is it not public that even the Landsspians can't keep their place if their politicians are on top, as they do? Would it not increase the public to have the growth system in such a way that half of those who gained interest are lost from the system? If you can't even give money to institutions where they can keep the water, would it not land in public in the country? It's all gonna hit the public. It's politics I'm criticizing. With regard to the wealth tax, like cot. A senator knows that he was legal. I've been speaking that we can only implement that idea and have income-related capitals just to meet the group I know of. A senator cares about just people who have a lot of possessions but have little income. So we can be a bit of a credit -- no, I didn't mean to say that -- we can be very original in taxation. The point is, the nation has been calling for more money. It is calling for greater equality and fairness. Somewhere, the money has to come. We need a powerful economy. We need economic growth. We need to have high national production per person, I'll figure it out perfectly. But let us also have a handsome wealth fund that will deal with the problems that are obvious while we are the 11th richest country in the world. While certain groups in the community are left behind, we need a welfare system that is not just a minimal security network but a powerful one, like the countries we usually compare with, the North countries, have. When it comes to our well - being, we should not go to a minimum. We're supposed to be moving toward a more effective well-being. We are to be, not close to the welfare system, such as some kind of charity or poverty, but a system that helps all Icelanders to thrive on their own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u195	V.E.G. President. What matters most to the people of the country is that we have a serious operation on a wealth of government. It doesn't mean to go up to all the lawsuits, except that there's a lot of them in the lawsuits. A senator talks about child support, pension payment, etc. The biggest interest in the public is that this is a responsible financial administration, a good business of state funds, because, of course, all the government agencies can use more money and do better, etc. But once you've listened to a talk, you've heard it. A senator three times and there is spoken of the billions of them, and I think I can claim that the interests of the public would not be the best paying under its excellent company. Of the wealth tax, yes, it was judged legal, but it was because there were absolutely special circumstances. In case of a moment. A senator better examines the basis for the judgment, so it is obvious that under the present circumstances the same wealth tax would be not be on; it would have to be everything, completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u196	A respectable president. It's a peculiar law that fits. A senator carries on this table. Possessions are widely known. Money tax is nothing more than property tax. There are limits to how much property tax can become. Hv. In the past, a senator may misread the judgments on a major tax. Then, the tax paid off. But balanced property taxes, whether they name wealth taxes or property taxes, are, of course, legal and widely known around us. Hv. A senator also talks about business. Of course, the government has to be responsible. We need both economic stability and social stability. It's missing. We need economic stability and social stability. That's good economics. It's good economics not to have people trapped in poverty. Economics are good for people to have the opportunity to earn their income and become income and to be on their own terms on a labour market and to do their part through the tax system. But as it is today, it is not enough, as we have designed our system. We in the government stand have presented such simple paths. We have the child-replacement system and the growth reform system, which we can use only one button here today, to make up for a little bit. Of course you know why. Senator that putting 1.8 billion in child damages is not going to turn anything over. I think it's a bit Colombian that a member of the Independence Party has come to talk about responsibilities in the government. That's exactly what this is about to be at table 25 billion. ...and ask that we accept it because of the complete failure of plan making from A to O. Where is its responsibility in this regard to carry also 25 billion in budgets at the same time and we shouldn't even see things like budgets in this room except in absolute exceptional circumstances?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u197	Mr. President. Now, at the end of this discussion, i.e. budget 3 and the last debate. I have to say, I'm very pleased with the bill for the budget that we're making and the benefits we're paying under, 18 billion more, we have total expenses of around 800 billion. I am convinced that the actions under the current government will be successful. I'm saying that we talked about 40 or 50 billion dollars in the campaign, that's almost half of that in the first year that I think it's just a pretty good deal of it. We stressed what the country called for, at least in our conversation, i.e. Health, education and transportation, and we're increasing our share. Of course, there are a lot of factors, and what is suggested here is good for all the inhabitants of this country. It is good for all when health care is being built, when education is being developed, when transportation is being adjusted. It's clear to everyone. Neither will it be said too often that much is yet to be done and that the task has to be done has just begun. During the campaign, many people talked about raising a vacation goal, which was the main focus of older citizens. We'll make it. There was much talk of a lack and lack of mental - health service. We are greatly strengthened by our mental - health activities. The sexual abuse program is well paid for, and so on. Old people's dentists and disability. I want to draw attention to the fact that it is now achieved to the goal that the United States and the left greens set for themselves some years in the dentistry of children under 18 years of age. It's going to be a perfect place for the New Year's Eve. In fact, it's been set up for the past few years. All of this matters. The project to discuss with the desperate the best way and the best way of dealing with them is to improve their circumstances and ideals. It is precisely stated in the Treaty that the government's discussions with the Microcollar Community and Developmental Supports on the Ways and what is best done soon in the coming year. I think that's a good idea. A much larger group of discussions had been tried and did not succeed. They were told of by the Generous Community, so we are now going to try to approach it in a complete way. Of course, there are far more ways to do so than has been done so far. I have no doubt that we will continue the work that we have begun and begin with the remaining ones. It is also important not to promote the council, both the council, i.e. Committees and members of Congress, as well as housing. Building an office building at the General Assembly House has sometimes been critical, but it helps to save the country large sums of money as a result of a ride that should be able to earn its share. I think that those of us who are on the budget can be happy with what is suggested there, and we are happy with what we say without denying that there are other things we can do. It's the way it always is. As I have sometimes said before and in answer to them, we were not given sufficient support, the sort who wanted to go some other ways, e.g. ... intothewheat. Of course, there are plans ahead of us to consider how we further strengthen our government, but I think that's wise. There are very different opinions about that, sounds to me, and has been heard in this discussion how to do so effectively, very divided views that were presented during the discussion. However, this is one of the basic reasons why a government fund can be run to the future with increased cohesion. I'm not worried we won't be able to land that situation. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I'm just saying again that I like this bill. I'm glad of the compensation we've contributed to it. I am convinced that not only in the capital area but also in the region where there is health support but also in the country. It can always be done better. I have no doubt about it. But I think these are the first steps to make sure that we get started and the work gets talked so that there will still be a powerful work in medical institutions, education, and transportation that may have been too little space in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u198	Mr. President. Well, that's all for a good reason. A senator is happy and satisfied with the bill, even though I cannot rejoice in it. Here earlier today, the communicator was being taken care of. Then the administrative body failed to charge students for special fees or expenses. That means we're 300 million short. K. into high school business. I was doing papers out there. I don't see a new proposal at a convention that brings 300 million to the colleges in cash. Is it so that after school it is intended to cut down 300 million because the greater part of the government fell away in the big college application to charge expenses to students?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u199	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. No, it's not. It was specifically noted that the schools did not have to bleed, that they would get this better. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture will probably explain this below when it comes to a vote. Not to be overlooked is the fact that these are not just fees, they are also school fees, so this number is not very accurate, it's some kind of obscenity. It does not change the fact that the content of the answer is that it does not impair school management. It will be replaced. As I say, I assume the highest. Secretary of education and culture will explain this in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u200	Mr. President. I'm sorry, but this answer just makes me confused. I've been on a budget for years, and I've been working on it. A senator changing the state's law and we're going to get the money, the funds, that in this room have to make up 300 million. K. in high school lawsuits. If we don't, the colleges have to cut down. V.E.G. Education minister, no matter how well she is, can't cheat on government law. I'm praying. A senator to explain this to me better. Is it not that if we are to spend more time in high school, we need to accept more money into the field? Isn't that exactly so?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u201	Mr. President. I believe we should look for the reserve, i.e. We are not necessarily expanding the bigger issues in the bigger language field. We can do this in another way. At least, I hope so. This can be taken from a reserve. You can look for ways in the field. I suppose the Minister of Education and Culture will, because we don't want this on next year's budget. We've been informed that this is not desirable. So I assume that we will first use the reserve before a request is made for money. No, no, no. Senator, this is within the topic field, and it can be done. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u202	Mr. President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said that a campaign against sexual abuse, which has been announced by the government, was financed. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator how she takes the initiative to help the U.S. police, who for years have been greatly subjugated. The government's proposal in the budget is that more than 100 million people are required to enter a computer system that is supposed to serve penance so that they can monitor their affairs inside the system, but it is unlikely how to serve the interests of failure to monitor for it for months and years, for years, that their affairs will not continue because there is no staff to care for them. Now, the police are an amazing subdiversor. It takes at least Two hundred police officers and women to protect the cities. These are the people who are going to do the work of protecting the interests of crime, protecting the security of the cities, but there is no sign in the budget that the government is thinking about this. We cannot protect ourselves from the security of the cities or from sexual abuse by merely putting money into computer systems. The law needs to be promoted in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u203	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'll agree with this. There's no police. I'm not sure that many of the current senators have spoken as much about law enforcement as the one here last few years, so I take my heart to believe that it needs to be developed and that we need to implement a law enforcement program that is still under way. I agree with that. However, some 240 million people are being put in the operation program, that was what I said, a sexual offense plan is a treasure. That's it. Can we do more? Yeah, all the time. In these matters, especially. This is especially true of some 180 million people, and so do other things. to the district attorney and more. I think while at least The plan is full - time. It is possible to see how the next step will be taken. That's what I said earlier. But I agree with what. A senator with respect to the police is all that it needs to be developed. I've never been better at that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u204	Mr. President. 180 million are fractions of what is necessary. If we were to increase the number of cops to what was ten years ago, in 2007, we would need one billion into this suit. financing a strategy - what is that plan of action? Now I just have to ask you what. Senator: What is this strategy proposed to curb sexual abuse in Iceland, to try somehow to put an end to this fear - inspiring situation? There have never been so many who have searched for an emergency room for victims of sexual abuse, which is operating at the National Hospital in Fosgi, such as this year. Never. That's the situation. We need a lot more than just a few million people in a program that no one knows what's going on, some computer system, a few bucks in the law enforcement department. You have to do so much better. Why is it not a sign that the discussion is being emblazoned with a certain task? It's not in the budget bill. That's why I'm asking, "What are you gonna do with the safety of the citizens?" Why do you say that you have a complete plan of action when you can't see how this is done or what that operation plan is?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u205	Mr. President. This is quite true, and fortunately, the revolutions here may have occurred, whether it is #metoo or something else that has happened lately, have caused many women on the surface who otherwise had not stepped forward and sought even. To an emergency room, or to a safe house or such. That's for sure. Lucky for you. Of course we will. It is also handled by the health - care system. Therefore I say, The strength is good for the good that is good. I don't think this is the kind of money you put into this. Because of what? A senator believes that it needs more, then it's just nothing, that almost 240 million people put in it, and that it doesn't matter. At any rate, I understand the senator's definition so it's so great that it doesn't matter. I don't agree with her. I think these funds are relevant to the department of the police that has dealt with and worked with these matters. I am convinced that with the work that will be carried out in connection with the Action Programme, we come to see even more where it's best and what it needs to be, because it's not just the police, it's in different parts of the system like that. A senator knows very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u206	Mr. President. We're in the 3rd. of budgets. I'm not going to go over the subject, but I'd like to review the basic differences and the cautions I pay to the budget I'm about to agree with. For one thing, it is good to recall once again that we are about to agree with or provide financial laws that violate current financial policies and violate current financial policies. It has been described as political insecurities, but the law is clear and the bill that is under discussion simply violates the relevant policies and violates the financial agenda. This does not indicate a great deal of will for us to change our practice in this regard. I find this particularly reprehensible when we look at the government that is beginning its journey in many ways, a government that unites in the smallest or the lowest of the commons. There is little need for emphasis on the government's system change or correction, since these groups do not agree on much in such matters. But there is just what is most important to the growth costs of the land's homes, which are enormously high and are repeatedly spoken of. Politicians have very often talked about high interest costs, but they do very little or do little to do what they can to lower them. That is precisely when it comes to the economic role of the state's budget, the maintenance of the state's budget, which has been warned so many times and repeatedly that at this point of the economy, when we are at its climax, we must take special care. This is quite a bit of a splic, with very little effort and no funding proposals available, but the rest of the government's budget is reduced, the maintenance is reduced. The late bank has repeatedly warned that it will be that the rest of the population will grow larger, stronger gangs, and undermine the competitive position of exports, to which various spokesmen of this government are delighted to speak. But it's here that's trying. Here is the opportunity to promote a more competitive spirit, to promote a lower interest level. But we are taking the step the other way, and it is, of course, with huge costs for both companies and homes. That's dangerous. It is reprehensible when we repeat the mistakes of the past over and over again, despite all the warnings we have received and have been repeated on the coverage of funding committees in the panels about the financial bill from agencies such as Sensitors, the Association of Employment and Others, such as the right to maintain it. You can say repeatedly: Well, you can do so much better with the Icelandic crown of recovery. But when faced with a trial, politics tend to keep in the other direction, promoting continued instability, promoting an increase in interest. There are other details of this I'd like to point out. There's no sign of any of these budgets about the changed practice at the council. All the changes made in memory have been systematically rejected, and the smallest conversation, discussion, or efforts have not been made to find out if there could be any single changes in the smallest item ever made. It's traditional majority. It may well be, and if the board is compassionate, it is so difficult to achieve a solidarity within the board of directors on the emphasis here that it simply cannot afford any compromises to my share. In any case, if that is the case, the continuation of the cooperation of more part and less part of the council in the coming years is not known. For example, the memory of the part is to be restored, only partially, the support systems for the low - income groups of child reforms and growth reforms. This is clear, and it has been repeatedly pointed out that these systems have suffered greatly in recent years. It is now that child - welfare decline begins well below the minimum wage in the country, and growth reform begins well below the normal limits of property in moderate families. It is a sign of low income, single parents, at a property target for minimum share in a moderate apartment. That cannot be the purpose of these systems. The government situation, or memory, provided suggestions to finance the 3 billion that would be needed to restore them in part. They were also rejected. It is very special to see such emphasis at the same time as other changes, e.g. on the budget bill that was submitted in the fall, as it were. increase in carbon, is severely reduced, decreased by half, which means the loss of income for the state's budget of about 2 billion. At the same time, a decision is made to continue subsidies to one of the country's most advanced sectors to 1.5 billion next year. These two little items would have been sufficient to finance the changes in the smaller part, but this was rejected, as well as adjustments in the proposal to abandon this peculiar priorities. It has to be said as it is that while I can share many of the emphasis found in the budget, especially in the setting of health systems, and most of these are the priorities of the priorities of the earlier government, there is no particular concern that there is a higher priority here so that the interests of the busiest persons in the community are sacrificed for subsidies to one of the most permanent sectors of the country, the basic sectors of the country, and a prior project for the increase of carbon costs half. It's nice to keep in mind this discussion, for I know that the independents have not been particularly green in their thinking and no one particularly believed in green tax function, that these taxes are designed to destroy this stock, to encourage people to use other energy sources. It is a very important feature in our efforts in this situation, and we know that there is a significant cost to buying emissions within not so long if we cannot do better than we have been doing in this regard. It's a matter of priorities. This setting of priorities is neither green nor particularly good when it comes to welfare matters. I feel that when we talk about these matters, we use a very big description of what is being done. There is talk of great attendance in the others and in these areas. I'd like to give the government a little more time to show up and prove itself, but I think it would be okay to do a little less work on the face of politics and to show the performance and will for real changes. You see, there is very little desire for real system changes to be done better with the funds that the state fund defends each year, and has been repeatedly pointed out in a health and education system that is not a solution to throw only more money into it but also to attack real system changes. For this discussion, the government's priorities are extremely low, on the first record at least. Many of the budget bill's focus is similar to the budget bill of the previous government; in itself, the overall context does not include a major increase in the percentages, but it reduces the maintenance of the state's budget. There is a danger that we will eventually have consequences. Of course, this is so that if a budget is to be held in government, it will have to be financed. This has been repeated. How sad it is to think that just a year ago, all classes, with very different emphasis on the budget talk, either for a significant expansion or maintenance, agreed that it was important for the maintenance phase to be in place, so if they were to offer suggestions on a significant expansion, they would simply need to follow the funding. This is not the case. What's worse is that if the declarations of the administrations are stated, this is only the beginning. It will continue on the same journey; to increase expenses, but to proclaim tax reductions on the extra expenses, as it is inferred that financial policy will reduce the rate of future losses, with the consequences for the economy. That's what I want to warn you. We've made that mistake before. It was very difficult for us to say. We know the consequences of that, for example. that this is not a hard time paying down on the kind things we now live in. How difficult it will be to carry 70 billion interest when the economy is cooled off and to meet the requirements for the welfare system, to the health system. It is clear that this course will not go on in the long run and will in time prove to be very difficult for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u207	A respectable president. I used to speak in the discussion about the bill being a kind of non-filled present to the government in order to do what we wanted. I want to correct that. It must be that what we're accepting, because we haven't had a better explanation of what sources we're actually accepting, is the same as the last plus since what is specifically explained about the budget and the projects that are specifically listed in the budget bill. What I'm most concerned about is that the large frame set to 2017 is mostly unexplained. It is, of course, filled with various institutions and resources, etc. who have a highly defined role and responsibility to shoulder. At least that portion is highly defined. The reason I pondered this is that there were projects within the Ministry of Presidency that had set priorities within the box. This is 250 million for information projects, which are higher than the total budget. Although there was evidently talking about new projects, the maintenance of these events was reduced, but they had to be replaced in a frame for some strange reason. I'd like to draw attention to the operation of budgets, in due course this year, that the dissociation of the frame is like a black box in the budget bill and the discussion we are in right now. We need to open it more carefully and see what has been done in recent years in this black box so that we can better understand the context, what remains unchanged, and what has changed. From what has changed, we need to put a question mark on whether or not such expenditures have been permitted if it is not specifically specified in the outpost range where new projects are announced and set in accordance with policy. Another subject that we have discussed during the discussion is the health system. In the last budget, we were out of control, i.e. with a job that went very well, especially in the budget. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson mentioned earlier was there a fixed partnership, and the maintenance was maintained, for it was an agreement that if we were to contribute more expenses, we would have to meet it with income. We also received the same indication from financial adviser on spending, that if the project was accompanied by cost and profit analysis, it would even be profitable to build, e.g. something up, and the rest of it in the future could pay for the cost of living. Thus, as far as I get the most of it, there is no slacker in government. The staff at the latest council agreed not to cut down on the health system and to make sure that its operation would not end in the minus 2017. It was a promise made by the Council that services would not be restricted. It is now spoken of as an injection and focus on the health system, but it is actually kept at zero. The main reason is that a new hospital is being built. That's enormously costly. There are a lot of billions of people who go into it and while not giving the opportunity to expand their business with care and stress and the like that is killing health care professionals now like the past few years. At present, we have a very good health - care system, which is because our health - care provider is working very hard to maintain the quality we still have. Such pressures eventually cause people to give up. It won't last long. Since it has lasted much longer than it should, I specifically commend that I have endured it for so long. But I warn you, this situation cannot last forever. The problem of building a new hospital is that there is a growing need. This is not really an injection into the health system. We're returning zero in terms of the health system structure. This new hospital has been on schedule for 20 years. According to some estimates, once the new hospital and buildings around it have finally been built, it will have already become out - of - date or at zero, and we must immediately add improvements to the future's expansion so that we will not return to the penitentiary of having too little space, so we are at zero. We are even entitled to reach zero in the medical system. You cannot talk about an injection even if there is a lot of money that goes in there. We are simply working on the minus that has been since the collapse and some time before it even. The budget bill mentions a little bit of the government's earnings. I think the government business between these three categories is crystal crystal in the focus of the budget bill. On the one hand, left greens have not received the income they would have wanted to earn and talk about before elections, but to some extent they have received additional expenses for the rest. This leads to relaxation of the hold as easily as possible. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson mentioned earlier and plays an interesting role. The budget itself refers to the income stocks, these three income stocks for insurance fees, credit taxes, and income tax of individuals, but in reality these income stocks are very fragile if economic conditions get worse. As a result, it should be very effective to reduce the pressures on these three giant farms. So we've got three major income stocks, which means that when we're in a financial swing either up to or down, it's a very rough device, kind of a stroke hammer to either increase the economy or a mowing. We cannot set the insurance bill, the credit or income tax for individuals in order to reduce the expansion of the economy in order to have consistent effects. We may very badly increase or decrease it to increase economic growth. We would like to have more accurate equipment where we could set up the taxes, in fact, fluctuating the way, where the spell is taking place, rather than everything, because these income stocks have covered the whole community. If we change something small to improve the expansion in a particular field, such as travel, everyone is affected. That's what I call a bar - strike tool for the economy. Government activities have fallen on the most unfortunate version of economic management, where the costs are higher than the income, and particularly the recovery of the income populations, are not up-to-date. That's too bad. Maybe next time, I don't know, it was too short now. In this regard, you may be allowed to have a little optimism. For the 3rd. The budget and the memory of the Piran and I proposed a number of adjustments to the budget. I'm going to discuss these three adjustments. First of all, it is 100 million committed to development projects to the United Nations because the United States went out of partnership. If so, we will show our efforts in return only by meeting the cost of the United Nations. Iceland's stock is not that big of a population share, but we'd like to show an example in terms of maintaining this operation. On the other hand, there is one thing that could lead to a particular turning point and perhaps a new strategy; we have a change form which allows the government to be entitled to pay the physical cost of high school and trade school. It's only obvious to accept the change in the memory of the part because it would be ironic if the change was dropped and then it would come back for financial supplies. Here we suggest that the warrant be given in advance so that it does not appear to be shown in financial aid by 2018, which is likely to happen. Or that is taken from reserves in some way, for going to the reserve fund is actually an expeditation of funds under government law. In particular, they need to account for the transfer that goes from reserve to high school, which would be technically an amount of money, but not after that, as has usually been done. I see an opportunity there, a piece of paper would be broken in history and this would be done right. There's been a discussion about the health and financial resources, not using the funds. We're in a state of uncertainty about the health system, whether the funds are effective. Then we suggest that the reserves of the health - care, general hospital care, special hospital care, medical resources, medical facilities, medical supplies, nursing services, and all the relevant topics will be filled. If there is not enough money under the funding of the topic groups, as is uncertain, there is at least a reserve for health care. Today, it is extremely small, so although people wish, they could not resort to the financial resources of the media party but would have to go to the general reserve, which is a much more complex matter. At the same time, I make it clear that it is a big decision to go to the reserve. You need to reason very well and precisely as if it were money. There are certain rules and procedures that need to be reported, etc. So I understand why. Víglundsson For the Þorsteinn of the temptation, the voice of the son of Wízvil, to take hold of the treasure, if he be present. The General's need to determine whether a minister should handle the legal rights of his own party before going to the reserve, for proper action can be taken before going into reserves. We hope these three changes have been made, i.e. The proposal for the United Nations, for the medical reserve as it does, and then for the material cost of high school work and trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u208	Mr. President. We'll discuss budgets here for 2018. Now we're left green people that a government that puts up budgets and naturals has built high expectations for many that with the arrival of greens left, things change for the better. I understand that because our left green policy is good. It builds on equations and righteousness and that the profit that flows to society through a variety of channels will be restored to the community of powerful infrastructures and the good health systems and powerful health systems, education systems, and that Iceland will be in the highest order of high welfare society. I believe that what has now been achieved in cooperation with certain categories certainly shows that the prints of the left green have been put on these budgets, and that's good. We have a reference to a budget bill presented in September by the government then member of the Independence Party and the Restoration and the Future. There's been a lot of changes since the bill right now. In total, there are 18 billion others. Although I'm not going to thank us left green for this addition, we've certainly had benefits and financial benefits, which I believe had not been by default to have entered the budget; health, education, infrastructure, and various social issues that would otherwise not have been here. The members elected to the council tried what they could make of the government, and those classing themselves as members of a middle class, and left - handed experiment that did not work out. Then we began to take the stand, left green, not to get out of the handle, but to put forward and put first in trying to form a left government based on wide reconciliation in society by making compromises, indeed, but also to think that it would be better to have left green for good and to produce results that would not otherwise have been offered. With that attitude, we went to this government business. I believe the first crop is to be caught here, certainly by a short action which also shows itself in this bill that we didn't have the potatoes long in the ground before we picked them up, but I'm happy about this step, fine steps. 18 billion from what was shown in the autumn of the budget bill must be considered effective in furthering the infrastructure that has been so widely called on by society, health, education, welfare, and, unfortunately, has been overdue. It's an interesting thing to hear from the great party, the United States and its good spokesmen who come up here on one another and just talk in percent and say that one of 2% isn't very successful. It's very special to hear. Two percent of the total cost of the state is 15 billion. As I understand that, we are now up to 2.5% of the total 18 billion. Let's just talk about a buck and a dime in this connection, but let's not hang ourselves in a mischievous debate about a percentage. People benefit little if they don't know what the percentages are. We left greens with proposals for these elections to raise the budget in the state budgets by 40 to 50 billion during the election season, so we must be taking a big step right now in the first budget. It can be noted that the election's proposals for elections included an increase of 30 to 40 billion in the percentage term because a great percentage is spoken of here by some reason of the season. Councilmen, of 4,26.5.5%. With that plan for the United States of America, we're halfway there. In the next four years, there will be some things that will keep our fine government in line. We left green ready for that. We will provide an upbuilding arrangement in this government and continue to maintain the good that is evident in the Treaty, speaking to it within these categories, within these categories, encouraging ourselves to fine works, and to our fellow workers. I am confident that this will work. You hear in society that there is a measure of relief that a government can certainly differ from one another in many fundamental policies, where members of Congress who are elected to be responsible for a body of Congress will set aside something that differs from those categories but take it up and work on what humans can combine to do. True, people are cooperating with groups where compromises and compromises are needed, but so are all. During the recent discussions of the Union Union and fiscal expansion and an excellent proposal that appeared at the government stand, it's just that everyone knows what governments have observed over the years that those who are involved in government cooperation don't have some table on the side where each class can pick up their favorite rights. Every sane man knows that. However, it is only natural that each act of government has its own suggestions, and they are to do so, speak for their proposals, and encourage the government to take their standards for their work. There is nothing to rule out that the proposals of a government stand can be approved. We just have to do it well. We're taking the first steps into this terms. We left the greens to tell us how to change our tactics, that the council should be stronger and more powerful, but some matters are so that they need time to work them on the opposite side and together, and there are many cases of such order that we will be able to work together in the future. Then I mention various support systems to the underpayers, priorities with regard to support young people and housing purchases, interest rates, child support, and cooperation and consultation with desperates for their interests and promotions on pay-employment. This is all we will do, and it has been agreed upon, in a government covenant. It will be followed. I understand the impatience of many who assume that society is changing where left green is in government. Left greens received nearly 17% votes, and they also observe the intensity of our efficiency in this government community. But we are well aware that we will weigh more than 17% in the progress this has been approved and will be in this ideal period. That's why I say to you who chose left green, that we will reap in the terms of the election much more than we would have done if we had been in a position of government, which could as well have expected. We will reap far more for the benefit of the worst, for our health and education systems and for all the infrastructure. We'll see a harvest in all these lawsuits, but it's not in a house within less than a month of the conquest of that government. It's just that way. So I say that I'm going to support this government for good works, and that's what we'll do. We're also going to be whole on this team. We realize that all of us need to make compromises, these three categories, but we are also to demonstrate the maturity of working with the opposition. The government situation must also realize that in the first days of this government, all the government's policy agreement and policy sheet cannot be established. This is unrealistic, and everyone who wants to know knows is. I can be really boring if I want to, I'm usually kind of fun, but I can be really boring if I want to. I'll be here at the end. [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I get a challenge not to be. In the last government, there were what. Councilmen who voted against all our good proposals of the left green, which was then presented with a raise in various good matters of interest and child support. Here they come. Congress officials, beating their breasts and, of course, wanting to do much better, have forgotten that they voted against the corresponding suggestions a few months ago. But this is politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u209	Mr. President. I will not extend the discussion at such a late hour, but it would have been a pleasure if we had been discussing bigger steps than those whose feet are in Icelandic society, as well as if we were going beyond the experience of strengthening the growth of Icelandic society, to form a mental illness. This, of course, is the result of putting matters first in the way that we have seen them. This is because the income - harvest system has been set in the way that it is shown. In this regard there are several pensions, if I may allow myself to use that word, for important institutions, but this is also because some receipts may be used more than reasonably. I mention it to make it appear that the government fund is building its survival too much of the tax paid under guidelines published by the Board of Directors on the website of the Ministry of Health. It is not an exaggeration, though it is said that it is taxing poverty in the land. Madam President. I'd like to give one more note to the important report published by the European Union of Iceland during the past summer, August, which is about the tax burden of the wage workers in 1998◯2016. It shows that in this period the tax rate has increased in all income groups, but most of them are less likely to carry farms. The same report shows that important reform systems associated with the income tax system, growth reform systems, child reform systems have been lost. In terms of interest rates, there has been no increase in the rate of remuneration, and decline limits have not increased to the level of real estate prices. This has led to the support of growth on only the most income - rich ones or individuals in very small assets. Low - level children, 20%, have little or no support through the growth system. As for the child-replacement system, it's weak, natural, it doesn't compare with the systems we're dealing with in the North countries and in the countries we're most inclined to compare with. The amount of livestock has fallen in real value, the levels of income reduction have increased. This has resulted in an increase in the tax burden of earnable employees with children in excess of others. In this important report of the German Union, it is noted that couples with children who earn at the lower quarter limit receive virtually no tax reimbursement due to child implementation and have almost the same tax burden as those who do not have children. It is totally unacceptable that these improved systems do not provide more support than they can say to children's families, and especially to those not remembered. Similarly, there is reason to describe serious disappointments by the joint proposal of minorities that child reform does not start until the minimum income is reached, here at the General Assembly. Now, child damages start to get far below minimum wage. Madam President. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the health system. No additional funds were provided for nursing homes. The representatives of the panel came to the branch office and expressed deep concern. The same is true of those in the United States who do not have enough money to provide the needed emergency and long - term services because of the serious problems we face in this area. Of course, a safety network of health services in the scattered areas is of utmost importance. It should be mentioned here, in order to ensure that any additional medical facilities in the country were given; as far as it reached them, it is certainly to be appreciated. The fact is, all over the country is waiting for action. Because of the lack we have in nursing homes, older citizens who have health to go to such homes do not get there because there is no room. They thereby block beds and keep staff who are needed to care for them in medical institutions. Of course, it should not be that way. Of course, the staff should be caring for other patients. There's a lot of work to do here. The right of those whose feet are bent in a much more decisive way than the one who is endeavoring to do in this bill is required. I want to finish my point of saying: It is most understandable that the estimated 4.7% increase to be taken into effect at the beginning of the next month is far below the conditions of the recent years of development in the country. In addition, the increase in index prices is based, not on pay-counts, in opposition to the main policy of this material in the Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u210	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wondered about a income tax thing because of what. A senator only entered that he considered tax returns from people with lower incomes to be too much in Iceland, the viewpoint I can totally agree with. What I wonder is why. A senator would see that changes in this would be implemented. Can he see a decrease in income taxation in the lower level, I suppose, or an increase in personality discount? We in Pirates proposed an election reduction in character discount. It is, in fact, accompanied by a substantial cost to the state funds, something we calculated. But I wonder what. A senator can imagine raising his character discount as a way to correct this problem? The other one I'm wondering is anyway. A senator has an opinion that a personal discount is somehow gradual or depends on the income. I ask because I've heard these ideas from time to time to complicate him, I understand its purpose, but also I love what a personal discount really is a simple device. There is really just one number that we use for income taxation in order to be able to calculate things. At any rate, I feel that it helped me when I had to figure these things out. I'm always afraid to change the personality rhythm system in itself, how the discount is calculated, though I would certainly agree that it should be raised. Requesting opinion of the dog. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u211	Madam President. It is most beneficial to review the report of the European Union on the development of taxpayers because there is an increase in tax burden in all income groups, and most in the lowest revenues, it is attributed to a number of factors, and most of these are attributed to the failure of the personal discount to the increase in tax rates. Then there it is, and I thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Hransson's Gunnarsson for his comments, that, on the part of my party, the Gangs of the people, we presented ideas of step - change characters so that he would be in a few steps and should, of course, acknowledge that it is a more natural, complex arrangement than having just one number. But we allowed ourselves to play the risk that he might just drop down on a high income. We allowed us to mention the number 1.5 million a month for those in such groups or in such a group of income that they may not have a heavy load and may well be able to see. I agree with my point of view. Of course, a senator may be able to keep such systems simple, but at times such views may have to be replaced by others who may weigh them heavier, i.e. to better use this system to back up the losers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u212	A respectable president. As I mentioned, I understand the goal. What a respectable goal it is to have a step - apart personality discount! I'd like ideas that were about raising the personality discount, perhaps raising the income tax pay rate at an upper level or about something similar. I have to admit that I haven't calculated that context if you'd like to raise the person's discount on a certain amount, how much would have to increase the upper level of the income tax reciprocence versus, I just don't know it, but to think out loud, I think I'm counting it out to a date. The other thing that I wondered about the development of the character discount is that in the report - which I have just looked into because of the problem. A senator mentioned it, so I'm not quite sure that I have the entire context right here, but as if I'm the character discount developed here from 1998 to 2016, it's actually 94 percent, if the 100 is 1998, I assume that that's what it means according to a consumer credit number. Then, on page five, you can see the columns, which is the case in terms of the price of a personal discount and the price of a personal discount. I wonder, this may not be a very intelligent question, may it be, if it's only natural that a person's discount follows a pay development rather than a price? I can't quite see that it is necessary. I'm not making a recommendation, however, because I'm into raising the character discount, and that's what we talked about before the election, I'm not against it at all. I'm just not quite sure that in 1998 the personal reference target was something holy and someone else. I'm not sure that we should necessarily aim for a period of time, that it's all been properly installed, that it might be better to aim at the position that exists now and the needs that we need today. [[The president calls.]] Just from that moment on, I might be quick to raise my personal discount, regardless of what it was like in 1998.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u213	Madam President. I'm glad we're doing what we're doing. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has reduced plans for the same kind of objective in mind, i.e. to use this system in behalf of lazy ones. This is a form of income balance that is not popular on all towns. Of course, it is possible to adjust it in many ways to achieve these goals. Thank you. A member of the body of elders for the most outstanding way in which we have produced additional advantages in what we have considered, of course. Clearly, the Interpretation feels that a personal discount should be appropriate. Of course, the 1998 annual year is not sacred. However, I would like to draw attention to the accounts at the end of the report on tax burden, and I would especially like to note that in these examples, a personal discount would have been accompanied by the trend that has been made during this period by the most efficient family in the range of 100 you. ... to 135yous. K., based on what is stated in the report, more is available in provisional revenues per month than they now have. Mrs. President, sees that for people on the lowest income, there are a total of 100 of them. K. ... to 135yous. K. ... money that really makes a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u214	Madam President. It is the passwords, the slogans of this government that look more and more pure as the budget goes on. The marauding is to be pushed forward, and large groups are invited to push forward and continue for a while, just with a little more power. Disrespect for the public, for clients and employees in many public service, including In health care and law enforcement, it's sad. It seems to be the secret: hurry while not sinking. Samples earlier today, we were given the payment of the so - called bandorms: new process, more consultation, to activate the smaller section. This isn't happening. The same book was taught, the old songs were playing and suing. The picture is that the system of government groups really feel that this is okay, that there is no need to improve the interests of the worst. They actually say that, you need to take a closer look, there are a lot of things to think both of the sea and of the country. They feel that hundreds of families are taking food to help institutions before Christmas. At best, it speaks of the fine work being done by Mothersitance Committees and other relief agencies, and it certainly is a good work. That alms offering should not be seen in a welfare community, it does not even think of the government. This sucks, and therefore, protests with equal members of the United States severely on behalf of ordinary people in this country, who before election believed the words of those now in charge. They're failing. They go behind their words. They say: "It's coming soon, don't be impatient. They keep promising. Is that credible? I hope, long enough, man will try. The largest group in this administrative work has long been at the catacombs and has developed the Icelandic community rather than other political parties and have achieved this even. To turn the nation into a place of hope, and now to how good and wise they are to protect the sand, the wealth. They have not perceived, and have not done, in what our riches are. Our wealth is in the best interests of all. It is the real source of prosperity. We live in a welfare community, we believe that. We are one of the richest nations in the world, measured on the physical scale, is saying that we have an average of something better and better than most of the time, but the division grows and grows, and we have repeatedly pointed it out, and many surveys show it. Shared averages are dishonored by thousands of Icelandic children. Is the discrimination that all of us look at some unchanging phenomenon, any protective objects that can't be mixed up? No, it's politics, and it can be changed. We want equal members of the United States, and we must do so if peace is to remain in this country. We handed out an agreement earlier today, a compromise, a proposal for the government to assist children, children's families, those who are living and their homes, those who continue to build this considerably harder country, but who do not choose a different and more familiar place in the phone calls of the world, those who want to increase the population of Iceland, young people in child care. And we see the results and subsections in the results of the majority of the section that gave the smaller part a long nose. It's the new job. The government proclaimed a huge expansion of the infrastructure and expected that the nation's cry for reversal would be respected. Do we see, though, any signs of a campaign? Do we look at any sign of parishion? No, I don't think so. I'm sorry. Undiscovered, there is a serious health - care situation in 2018. One of our most serious health - care ailments is aimlessness, where are we going, and how are we going to get there? There is no guide, no guide, and no fuel in the tank. Still on the same path in the dark, they head out into the unknown. Health institutions are based on random sizes and institutions, which believe that most of them are overlooked by regional change, increase of projects, and one budget determined here by the high Council for a year. Such a system is unacceptable in modern society. It is unique in Western society that health institutions are financed in this way without regard to projects and activities. It is estimated that health institutions have a lawsuit, their institutions in defense of financing, and so do many difficult conditions and have done for some years, almost despair. The pressure that has been involved in making money affects all employees, both those in the past and those of the general staff. The danger is that this has a negative impact on the activities of the institutions, workers, and services. What is marked together by all health institutions in the country is that the business is underfinished, heavily reused, and maintained. This is not answered as far as new legal requirements are concerned, but that is a sign. According to a hospital case, the hospital's circumstances have been like this in these last days because of pressures and disasters that they simply didn't have the resources and energy to support the capital and recognize the real situation. Figuratively, the decision to choose what can be cut off from the operation and to dismiss it is predictable. And where should we point? To the town of an independent operating agency, which pays for each event specifically and to the top of a currency. This is not true of a land hospital that has been funded for a year's pay. V.E.G. A health minister has not put it simply that the change in the hospital budget is urgent. There seems to be no future for that purpose. There's no sign of that on a budget bill. A comparison between institutions in health care is difficult, sometimes misleading, and dangerous. The representatives of health - care institutions in the country provide a wide range of reasons for their speech when they come and raise their problems in business; a growing need for service, dating, special employment, increased number of tourists, etc. All of these are valid explanations in themselves, but there is a lack of objective, critical, and consistent standards. However, there is little further use of health care, since there is the comparison between the number of people in the relevant medical community and its composition and activities, this very important basic service in each community. But in the hospital field, it's more complicated. The population of the local population cannot be compared, since health institutions have so different roles, and the uptake area varies from one to another, and their roles are varied. In time, therefore, a person must weigh by cost analysis of the funds for them. This further emphasizes the importance of the growth of the cost analysis of the ministry. Sadly, little has been done about this on the part of governments and knowledge outside the local hospital. Madam President. What we are discussing in the last few days is this: It is a lack of respect for those who are housed by their feet in the community; the elderly, the children's, the desperate, and those who are ill. Where is the mind of the company leading the government? Have the fires completely turned off? Ómarn't that song sound good to me? Though a future is hidden, it's still right around the corner. The future foretold by that government does not promise that the freedoms of those most in need will be broken down and will yet be left. Building a just society does not appear to be on the log of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for 2018. What about the fight? They have been forgotten by the permission of a president who knows the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u215	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this excellent match-up speech reminds us of where it came from. A senator, in fact, comes like others in this room. I can, like, unveil it over and over again, and probably 100 percent high that I call myself a socialist and a part of the same ideologies that sound familiar to me. A senator talks about. What I'm wondering about from a talk. A senator likes what he likes. A senator would want to set his priorities differently if he entered the position of suddenly being a member of a government of independentness and facing a budget that would have to face the test. A senator could stand here and defend it against other left groups, such as the United States. Would it not be most logical that such a government, with so - called left men working with so - called right men, would put forth effort to make financial laws that immediately show that it mattered that it was in control? I hear a little bit from members of the greater body that something will be done later, it's being revised, and God knows what. However, I feel that the emphasis is missing on what is not to be improved now, especially when considering the suggestions that have come from the smaller parts, including the smaller classes. A senator, a child's settlement, and so on. What should be the emphasis if we put ourselves in that position? Here, we naturally have a left-class, left-steam, a green supply, which, in my opinion, is a class of serious. There are people in this category and a government that are good people who want society well. So I ask: What if other good people I know about here in this council hall came to power, how would they establish priorities? Based on current policies, how could a financial bill be found to be acceptable? A senator expressed himself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u216	Madam President. There are many suggestions from the United States on how we would like to establish priorities. What I have spoken about is to provide family members with increased support, young families that are making their way into life. We tried this with our suggestions this morning, unfortunately, they were not well received. We'll keep trying. Of course, in health care, it's not a simple group of paint, I admit it. V.E.G. A minister has a lot of work to do that I know it will do well. Molding policy in the seminary should be a top priority. Since then, we try to weigh carefully what it takes to engage in the ministry at various levels in the system. We don't know that properly today. We just know that it is not necessarily the cheapest thing to do in medical service and surgery at a land hospital. There are a number of measures that can be taken elsewhere, making better use of public equipment. Of course, our emphasis has been in general in the form of a number of suggestions presented by the Conspiracy for children, disability, and older citizens. That's where we would've wanted to take a lot of weight without putting everything on the other end.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u217	A respectable president. Put it all on one end, by the way. Judgment Day is generally foretold when a person suggests that a tax is raised or done at the left. We heard one Judgment Day talk about it from earlier. 5th a.m. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" What's happening to me in this is that we have a government that should at least twice to agree with this. I know it's a plan, and I know you shouldn't be imagining how other senators would vote, but I'll say it just as if I were watching that it's strange that we're in a position that the proposal for higher child care so that they don't get far below the minimums is rejected, an overexcited demand is I think. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would administer the law if he were to become a minister and stand here and be responsible for these laws - oh, immediately finished. [[The president calls.]] How would that be? A senator accepts my proposals, e.g. if they weren't necessarily part of the team's cooperation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u218	Madam President. It's easier talking than getting there, that's just the way it is. Part of what you see in front of you is a top priority. They could have been carried out at once and do not need to be overdramatic, not having to pay attention, and not needing a great deal of pressure. We take these groups we've been talking about, i.e. The children, the cripple, and the elderly. There we can do much better. But there are other and larger lawsuits. I realize that. The government has not been ruling for long. Your healthcare provider will include, for example, Big ship. It takes a long time to turn it around and be effective. There's a lot of practical things. They are often not playing around. But I'm just going back to the work that our great party, the Conspiracy, has put into preparation for financial preparation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u219	Madam President. I listened with keen interest to a talk. paritaprevir Guðjón Brjánsson In fact, he took a discussion that may have been heard more frequently from Pirata's side than from an interesting friendship. This made me wonder how these things could be won different and even different from myself or others I've heard of have been described. I think I know what. A senator has considerable experience in this regard, so I ask how it would be possible to improve the future planning of health care institutions as they are today in order to make things right. In context of that, I ask, "How would I know? " A senator wants to see the structure and organization of a potential long-term health - care programme that has been widely discussed and is coming to my attention? When I think about this, I always think about units and pieces that click together properly, depending on the way an institution is involved; where it is, how much service it needs and the like. But I realized that by listening to a talk. A senator, that maybe it's this tidbit needle, which is somehow stuck in my head, not the only way to get close to it. Perhaps there are normal approaches that are more experienced in the medical sector than are totally exotic to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u220	Madam President. In short, it may be difficult to comment on how we wanted to see our course. The country, however, has been divided into a medical facility, and the policy has been during the last 10 to 15 years to reduce the number of clinics and increase them, to make them more fertile administrative units and to be more responsible for larger areas of service. They have never been given to fulfill their assigned role. Both have not been given the financial resources they need, and in terms of much of the special service, this has not been accomplished. I think the territory should be responsible and strong, this district. What we need to have included in a new course of health care or health care, guidance, or what we call it is that we agree on where to serve and that this service will be rendered in full - time service. She's not today. This is just a matter of fact, what I can think of about the organization. But what a challenge it is to create new health - care policies for the whole country, for there are strong opinions about where and how to provide health care! Everyone wants to have the health care that works well. We're supposed to try to solve it as well as we can, but it'll probably be slow enough to match, but we're supposed to promote good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u221	Madam President. Thank you for your excellent answer. This leads me to reflect on the position of a senator on established contracts, such as the one in force at the Southern Institute of Health, on the Cape of the Hornfjord, the work unit there, who was at the time fired as a contract with the local community. I wonder if this idea has given us some good experience as some other administrative level? It's always this fight. Indeed, when larger and more united units are being made, there will be more integration in business conditions and organizations, but the individual characteristics may be slightly affected by this. There are many places where the ministry is very limited and very small, but it may be possible to enjoy and thrive in some way if the conditions were correct and perhaps another organizational level could help. What is the senator's position on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u222	President. You see, there is a very remarkable service form being run in Southeast countries, where the National Institute of Health at the Cape of Hornfjord is part of the Southland Institute of Health, which has been accompanied by a rift agreement. Health's a close-up. Of course, she should be living at the home of a local community, just as home service belongs to local communities and home nurses too. But the moves scare. In fact, rural society has bent on taking over a government assignment and referring to the subjects of the disabled and the elementary school. Thus, doing this work is a serious task. She had this service, the health care department, on her shoulders, but unfortunately she wished that she would go back for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u223	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a extensive talk would like to communicate with him on a better occasion and at a different time of day and year on health matters. He considered a certain part of the medical system with great knowledge, and he has had experience in this field and experience far more than the one here. In this contrast, I would like to acknowledge my desire to have a long - term upbuilding conversation, i.e. discussion of long-term policy, since that is correct. The senator points out, in some respects, that the way being treated here under a great deal of time pressured out the payment of money is a question of continuing in the dark, as he himself put it in his speech. It's also gonna take a long time to turn this big ship. But my position is that for this to be successful, we need such changes very much and transnational cooperation. In fact, we need a common understanding of the part of the Community Convention that a good health system should exist and that it will survive, as it were, political disposal, elections, new elections, new elections, new health ministers, etc. It's important for the people of the country. It is important for our health - care providers. I'd also like to stop for a while. A senator mentioned regarding the clear complexity of the individual factors, stressing quality, equation. But I would like to ask him to say a few words about the equation regardless of the population and the challenge of providing equal access to our country's health - care services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u224	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. I realize that, and that's very well said, that that's where we have to make a community contract. This is a real challenge because it is a unique group of subjects, very sensitive. It is said that having a safe, safe health care is one of the basic factors in each community. But the public is becoming very informed. Now it's no longer true, not in the country or any other community, that there's just someone at the station. People demand a good service. I think it's the best thing to do with the quality. We're supposed to talk about quality more than guaranteeing heads. I realized in my line of work that men were busy because they didn't sleep at ease unless there was a guy in the room. Of course, living in security is vital. I think we have to start getting ready to do that if we're going to keep this country all in the country we want to do, to challenge this important aspect. It's not like today. Health - care managers often deal with the problems, with places that are part of the tradition. But no one wants to compromise. Many settlements have been followed by the priest, then the cop, and now we are also to be taken away by our doctor or nurse. People experience it as a retreat from the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u225	President. Thank you. A senator for good answers. I would like to get closer to him and call for his knowledge of the group of languages. Hv. A senator speaks of quality as perhaps. More important than design, i.e. to have heads in the place, as he says. It's important to build on quality. Then I would like to ask: Do we have a good measure of health care quality? Then I am primarily talking about the service of the medical institutions in the country, the standards for which they exist. Are they good enough? Do we need to revise them? It was considered in the McKinsey report that we needed to increase the number of tests. What do you think? A senator? There is another thing that concerns me, that is a service to women who are now very limited in their land, and that is, in fact, only limited to the capital area and the Eyjafjörður region. [[The president calls.]] How should we respond? I have a feeling that we have not responded to the position that has come up by reducing places for women to bear children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u226	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers of these inquiries, both fine, but short. Of course, we have key standards for measuring results in certain areas. But as for the quality of our service, how good our service is, the pot is broken. In fact, it is surprising how poor our standards are in this delicate, delicate service. There's work to do. We do not have business records or quality checks in the ministry unless we are very irregular. Regarding birth service, it is reversed. Of course, there are places in the country where perhaps 30, 40, 50 are born. This is not realistic, or it will cost at least very much to keep out of delivery equipment for safety. What has happened is that this service has been taken away or has disappeared, and nothing has been replaced. [[The president calls.]] Families - feeding women receive no or no support when they have to pick up and leave home. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is a marriage mate and perhaps even a child who wants to participate in this remarkable event. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a big deal for a family in the country. There we would have to shape our course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u227	A respectable president. It's getting a little late for a Friday meeting, but what do you have to do besides discuss the budget? I'm going to review some of the factors that have actually taken place in the discussion, both now and the two of us. Um., and also reviews material with the so-called corps, i.e. Of course, changes due to financial responsibilities are closely related. First, though, I'd like to mention something that is extremely important to be settled in this discussion that has to do with the change in the bandormies. As it turned out, a financial and business committee, as it was dealing with the comorium, showed an extension of the provisional principle. This provision gives higher schools the authority to charge for material expenses. It seems reasonable to whom it is normal for high school to plunder, but it was true today. According to the law and their main contents, it was expected that this warrant would not be necessary, that government funds would pay it. Then came 2008 collapse. Then came 2009. Then, on account of the economic situation at that time, the General decided to set up this provisional principle that would certainly lighten the wealth of the state, but on the other hand, it was for students who had to buy the material from school and pay more for their education. This was done for a while. It is clear that the Lawgiver's will was at the time that this provision was necessary. Now it's no longer necessary, just evil. This was only discussed in the Economic and Business Committee. It happened for a while that the greater part would still like to have this preliminary law, the smaller part was against it, and just wanted the government's money to pay for it. Then came the issue of whether people thought this was normal or not. That's quite a valid debate, but it should also change the principle of the law itself, so it's just plain and not always have to be extending some preliminary principle. Of course, if people want this authority to be present, they should be placed in the principle of the law and no longer waste our time with a sizable provisional plan, which then needs to be rolled up every year. I could keep an independent speech on temporary regulations and the scope of their treatment of these matters - I'm referring to the fact that income tax laws are complete jungles, there are 57 preliminary regulations there, although several of them numb those lines - but it's just a mismanagement that I'm referring to. In any case, in our memory, we suggested that this temporary law just would not be extended, that the government fund would simply pay for it. The suggestion to extend this provision was withdrawn from the greater part, happy memories. It was a positive, very positive, and hopefully is a part of my speculation that the government groups always vote against the smaller parts. Now I see that the theory that I hope to be wrong is wrong, that would be really fun. The reason why I mention this is that if this provision for remuneration is simply taken away, students in trade who need this material to study still need this material. Somewhere from now on, it'll have to come. If it is not financed and the source is not available, it will reduce the capacity of high school to contribute to this industrial education. It can't happen. In my opinion, taking away the provision is worse, i.e. does not extend it, without financing the cost of the material but extending the provisional principle. The minority was willing to refrain from extending the provisional principle and is well accepted. But then we have to finance it too. And that's what happens in this case. We asked a financial and business committee how much it cost. The answers were completely clear. I have seldom heard such clear answers on any committee. That was 300 million. I asked again: Is that enough, is it the price needed to fix this permanently? As far as I can remember, a man nodded his head and said yes. At any rate, the answer was that this is how the memory lives - even though the memory is memorizing and all that. The change has now been made from the smaller parts to increase this budget by 300 million in order to achieve this goal, to skip this provision without allowing the school's ability to contribute to this industrial education. Now the majority of the item can vote with the suggestion of the smaller part. The suggestion to increase this spending by 300 million is the inevitable result of retracting the greater part's proposal to extend the provisional principle. It's unbreakable. If the majority intend to take away the preliminary principle without contributing, secondary education is being reduced. I can't believe it was the objective or purpose of drawing it back. And I don't know why, if it's gone, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, I would want to do it. But it also means that my guess may fall into votes afterwards, and then the majority of the item can vote with this suggestion. I hope that the more part gets a little bit of that, but not a disgrace. There should not be any surrender, there being on the contrary, it would be splendid to see a greater part of the vote with a suggestion of a smaller part of the budget. Even if it was only to experience it. I think I'm gonna make it work for this particular team. It happened during the days that the president of the United States, Donald Trump, did what Donald Trump often does, which is that he threatened. He wanted a vote for the United Nations on whether Jerusalem was to be recognized by the United States as Israel's capital. A clean case and, of course, delicate. In fact, it is so fragile that seeking peace is at risk. This is very serious. This is not necessarily just because Jerusalem is the capital of Israel or not the effect on the peace talks itself. This is one of the main factors involved in this discussion, and this is at risk for decades of trying to bring peace in Israel and Palestine. Now that Donald Trump is Donald Trump, he does what Donald Trump does, threatening nations that he will stop funding development aid to those countries who intend to vote against him. Besides the shocking, childish behavior - most youths I know do not act that way because they're growing out of it, it's ridiculous behaviour. And by the way, we should just say it out loud, the man behaves like a child, with all respect for children. At the same time, he reduced the budget for the United Nations. The United Nations is not necessarily the most popular international agency in the world, and I understand that. In many ways, they have the same flaws as the Generals. This is the scene where people come together to discuss disagreements. It can be quite an ugly thing, can certainly be uncomfortable. But it's an important scene. One of the most important developments we have is the United Nations, with all flaws. If so, I would not want to minimize all the good things the United Nations has done; unfortunately, that seems to be often forgotten. In any case, he reduces his funding. Now it's not my calculations that I rely on, but there are some ways to figure out what would be reasonable, that we would add to the United Nations if we wanted to set an example, Iceland, and do the opposite of what Donald Trump does. If we were to try to figure out what was righteous and wise, we would do well to contribute instead to our solidarity with this important international organization. That's why we have only 100 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not much. This is a figure calculated by average or median or by any of the three different means that could be used to calculate what would be fair for Iceland. People can be consulted and two other ways. I didn't figure it out myself, so I don't know the exact premise, but at least it's a very small amount, 100 million, and then we could send this clear message. It's a rather recent suggestion. I don't know that she's been talking about budgets so far. This is definitely something we should do to show that although some elements in this world prefer to shut themselves down and everyone else out there, Iceland is not. That would be important, a good message, and a little change, based on the news of those days. Sadly, I do not have the time I would have needed to review all the other things I wanted to go over. But I'm gonna pick something out. I think I mention only one thing that I've thought was quite affordable, after being back in the election after an election campaign that was characterized, like a general campaign, by a so-called campaign of elections. I have to say in my own way that I'm opposed to elections. I don't think classes should give them, I don't think people should believe them. I think the campaign code is just not appropriate. I think they're irresponsible. We tried to make it very clear in our campaign that these were suggestions, could change. They would be on certain grounds, they could change, and they could possibly do so. Because that's how reality works. Not that politicians decide in a campaign that this is just what they should do, no matter what. It's just irresponsible. Of course, people need to know what politicians intend to do. That's why they have a bearing. Hence, they try to explain the reasons they make their decisions and try hard to rely on us here at the order of the Council to make relatively informed and wise decisions. But above that, I'd like to mention, of course, that of the public, if he wants to directly control the way things are done and what they do, simply to get that right. A good first step, as long as I remember, would be to introduce a new constitution based on the Council's bill, where the public can recall basics in national terms if 10% of voters require what I think is a very modest proposal. It is also possible when such arrangements were made, to give the public more opportunity to control things, even the way money is directly and each one. Then perhaps it would be less necessary to rely on the gurgling. Congressers and politicians and candidates will meet someone who loves them. If the public wants to rule, the public should be allowed directly to rule, themselves. He should not have to trust that someone who promises and promises that, by the time I remember, the public is generally used because all politicians break. I sometimes ask: What is meant by this statement: All political groups always violate all the election promises they give? A remarkable number of people agree with this. One individual has his doubts, can point to one and another as progress, unfortunately, at some point. But basically, it's the mesmerizing of society that politicians always betray their campaign promises. There must be a reason for that. I think there's only a good reason for that, that's because it's often very irresponsible how they speak in a campaign. One of the things I felt so irresponsible in the campaign for these elections that I was shocked when the Independence Party began to talk about 100 billion in the infrastructure. If you began to know more about it, it just didn't come out of the budget, then it was suddenly some profit somewhere I hadn't heard of being available to politicians at the time. It often comes out in a campaign that there are hundreds of billions of people in some chest that no one knew about until the election had begun. And I also realized that it was talking about four years, which is a perfect period. 100 billion over an entire elected period. That means 25 per year, which is a different message than just 100 billion inside. These numbers and claims don't tell us anything if they're not exactly what they're talking about. That's why we in The Pirates released a table design document with our suggestions and ideas so that people could view it, as people did. [[The president calls.]] How much I could boast about it more than I intend to let the president rule this time and finish my speech here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u228	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask him about the arrangements that had fallen away earlier today, i.e. provisional regulations set up after the collapse of the economy which delayed validation of 45. g. and 50. g., reminds me, a high school song from 2008 on expenses paid by employees and trade students, as well as on academic fees paid by late-school and telecommunications students. Thus, in 2009, when we were on the brink of bankruptcy, a preliminary law against high school law was set aside, and the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter,'s government, was going to extend it to the blues of the goods on the top of the swing but then saw and left, and we were happy and happy to do so today. But then it turns out there's no funding in return, 300 million. K. There may be a problem. A senator had a good time with this in his speech, and I had to get out of the way. But I'd like to ask why. A senator will see if he doesn't understand it like I do to ensure the future schools are 300 million. K. In business funds, if the decision made here today not to agree to the preliminary principle, they should not have to cut down this 300 million dollars. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u229	A respectable president. This was shown at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee before our discussion and the vote we were earlier on the question of whether this law should be extended or not. The figure has been ahead of us ever since we started talking about it here in the Hall of Congress, i.e. 300 million. You don't talk about very large amounts of money here, but I know they'll accumulate gradually. But it's 300 million that the government fund can certainly afford. In view of the fact that the provisional principle was thought of a crisis and that we are simply not in a crisis right now, it is very important that these extra funds are needed to do this. If my share's proposal to fund this other good decision more than that of not extending it, then I can't see this any other way than that the left movement has made a little better. Because it is not possible for them to want to reduce the capacity of high school to offer this study. I can't believe that's what it's all about. There must be some serious misunderstanding if it's not to be financed. Then there are two things, whether they want to fund it by putting it on extra budgets next year, and I'm referring them to a long and fine discussion here on budgets where we considered how planned it was. We know that money is needed, and that's where it belongs. This is how it is under the laws on public finances. If we're not going to deliberately violate these laws, we're going to have to put this on the budget bill. It's in the eye. And then, the other thing, I wonder, is there any gio-question that these 300 million are in the modified form of the smaller part or more of the part. That's what I was wondering. I hope that this is strong enough to give the majority of the item a vote with the suggestion of the smaller part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u230	Mr. President. I think it's the only way, to accept either the less part's proposal of 300 million in the college language or that the more part itself makes a new suggestion, different to 300 million and a dollar, if they'd rather agree to a proposal they're offering themselves. But I think it's necessary. However, I worry that there is something wrong with people and that they want to compromise government laws. Especially after having responded to what was done, I am deeply worried. paritaprevir Early in the evening, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's bellow when she said in response that it would be clear when it was the highest power. A minister of education explained to us that the reserve was to be used to finance it. But reserve is for things that are temporary and totally unpredictable. A reserve reserve is not to cover some decision, which is hastily taken from the greater part of the Assembly Hall. I didn't expect that when the head of the Economic and Business Committee came here in a pita and said that the top-of-the-board section had stopped this proposal, that men had not considered and considered what it meant. I did not think of today when I was truly happy with the suggestion that the meaning was to cut down in high schools or to compromise public financial laws by means of some means. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u231	A respectable president. I just don't know what the motive would be for not setting it up as a trust fund. Rather, I want to go to some reserve. I just don't understand why, first of all, they would. What is accomplished by this? I'm suspicious because there's so much now that something is said and then someone else gets it wrong. It is rather typical in this work not only because people do not always speak the same language but also because when interests are meant to get wrong or to understand details differently, there is a greater tendency for them to be divorced or misunderstood. The idea of taking it out of a reserve, it's a bit remarkable sometimes, what the Parliament can easily do to break the rules it makes for itself. We're the members of the Parliament. We set up a government law on public finances. Maybe not exactly the individuals standing here, but at least the person standing here. I can't remember better than that. A senator was involved in these laws. That's good stuff. But we should follow them too. And when there's a suggestion not to follow them somehow for reasons I can't imagine, considering that the goal is clear. We know why we're doing this. We know exactly what the amount is. That's perfectly clear. There's no doubt about it. There's no complications here. This is just a question of whether the greater part intends to finance this transition, which he blessedly agreed to take back his proposal to extend this provision, not to go too deep into law technology, or whether he intends to reduce the level of high school to offer industrial education. It's just those two options. I can't believe it. The members of the greater part are going to vote against financing this change they have made themselves. I just don't believe in them. I need to see it. I'm still wet behind my ears here at the Council that I don't believe it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u232	Mr. President. During the 15 minutes I have them, I want to talk first about two things, one of the instruments that governments have in order to counteract the growing inequities of society and high school and their status. We have many discussions about the budget bill and some laws that need to be changed because of the financial bill said the importance of raising children's compensation, which is far less than the minimum. We've also discussed the need to change growth, where there needs to be an increase in property targets because real - estate assessments in this country have grown dramatically in recent years and more in certain areas. The modest growth that we in the smaller parts could be compared to that, and more people would enjoy the growth. These two controllers, these two devices that are so effective in increasing the balance in society, have been weakened in recent years. I got to win a budget bill once. It was in the fall of 2012 that we were setting up the budget for 2013. Then, after working on 216 billion financial holes, we saw a country. We were able to present a legal bill for 2013, where we closed the hole. As soon as we saw the country, we raised the child support. We wanted to take a step toward what is going on in the Norwegian countries, where child reforms are effectively used in order to balance the status of the children with the rest of the non - children. We also had a step - apart income tax system. It is in our policy in the United States to increase step - by - step, but as the new government took them, the number of child reforms that had been increased by 30% - is almost the same number that is being proposed today to the General approval to defend the country's children's families and was approved in the fall of 2012 five years ago. These systems are being progressively weakened, which are part of the welfare system and are effective. This is what we want in the memory of the change. The rest of it doesn't want it. Depending on who speaks from the greater part of the government, some may say that they are at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities that all of this has to be considered in the context of collective agreements. I hope that it's not true, that it's what the board wants, that people who are in the lowest salary, people who are on the minimum wage in Iceland, have to sit at the dresser contract and make up for minor settlements, probably expect to get a lower salary for everyone, whether they have children or not. This is something very strange and something I would never have thought my long-term partners in the left green would support. But it is, unfortunately, it seems. Then others say why. directors that did not have time to raise your child's request more or the criteria more than from 225 yous. K. every month up to 242 you. K. As if it had taken longer to raise the criteria to 300 levels. K. What is this nonsense, Mr. President? I don't understand. Here, in the special discussions about poverty, some spoke, and I remember a moment ago. A senator of the left green who spoke of humble submission to that assignment. But we should do it, not now, but later. So it's not going to happen in 2018 that child damage will not be impaired until minimum wage is paid. Rather, it will be far below that. This is unacceptable. That's why we've talked about this in a number of discourses, written on the committee, repeated over and over again, because this is a matter of the heart because we are equal. These are effective tools for combating social inequities. I'm not talking about this for the first time. Every year since 2012, we have talked a lot about this matter in the United States. And until now, right by our side, members of Congress have stood left with greenness and been completely with the same mind, but not now. Today, when we were in unprepared inquiries to discuss this at the highest level. The prime minister chooses the highest. Instead of answering a question that I directed to her to attack the Syndicate for the rest and this and everything possible instead of answering the question. I would have liked it better, and I would have felt better in my heart if it was the best. The prime minister would have just said: "Sorry, we didn't make it now, we promise to make it back in 2018. We won't let you down then. But it wasn't that way. It was a tool that worries me that, in fact, these equations should not be changed. In other countries, child damage is not linked to pay, it is not reduced by income, but is taken by step - by tax system. Those with high income will pay more for the combination than receive child benefits. It's where we want to go. We've heard the highest. Secretary of finance will discuss how he likes things. He wants to look to the World Bank as a model for the children's relief system. Mr. President. It's not just that I'm worried about this evening, it's high school and their business in 2018. It was to extend the provisional principle set first in 2009 when the crash struck. We were trying to close the budget, and the General delayed the implementation of two branches and authorized continued remuneration, as before the collapse, and before the law went into effect, for reimbursement of trade students, and as for night-school and telecommunications. This is what we did. It was temporary because we were in a lot of trouble, otherwise it would have been necessary to cut even more out of high school education, but we had to open it to young people for a job search when the situation was just after a crash. However, what has happened since then is that the provisional principle has been renewed. True, it was not replaced with the last budget, so in 2017 the law was to be in effect and no provisional principle should be applied. Now, however, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was going to restore the provisional plan, even though it was said that a new education campaign was to be started, and it should especially be looked to as a staff worker in the land. They then felt that it was appropriate for them to raise the amount of material on employees, as well as the school fees for evening school and telecommunications. Happily, a respected president, and it was a pleasant surprise to me, the administrative point decided to withdraw this decision. I thought it was such a just and good suggestion. Of course, it is not a preliminary law to add interest to students in high school just when education is starting, that would be a strange start. Of course, there are not students in high school who are supposed to have 300 million. K. Donations via electronic bank transfer. You don't do that in one word and talk in the other about the importance of access to education, regardless of the economy. During the discussion of poverty, a minister of finance did. But it never occurred to me, a respectable president, that they would not have assumed that they would have to set 300 million. K. a donation to a high school convention, and this proposal would now have to come to a vote on a bill for budgeted by 2018. That certainly surprised me when I saw it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir here said that it was all right, we didn't have to worry about it because they were going to use a general reserve to cover it. It is a violation of public financial law. The only one who has not read the law or who has not considered the conditions under which to use the reserve can be considered. First, you don't use the reserve in advance. The reserve should be for something completely unpredictable, which is temporary and no one can handle. The reserve is not to be used, there is no way to make any contributions in such a business as the operating of the high school system and say: "We're going to pay it with the reserve. No, it's not gonna happen. What needs to be done is 300 billion. K. contributes to the management of high school. And the greater part of the government needs to show us white before we leave this hall that it will be done. We were not celebrating the fall of this preliminary law, which was put back in distress in 2009 so that secondary schools would have to cut down about 300 million dollars in their business. K. in 2018. No. There's no way that's gonna happen, Mr. Honorable President. The administrative part needs to work out a solution for this mess. Clearly, the decision has not been made. Although I thought it was pretty good, it wasn't made up and wasn't taken all the way. But that's what we have to do tonight. We have to stick together for that. I call for an agreement that we fit to high school and that this morning's decision not to extend the preliminary principle will not be necessary to cut down in high school. I trust that we all agree on this and do what must be done to make sure that there's not some bullshit going on from this decision that seemed so good this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u233	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First, she spoke about the equation and the importance of the equation. Hv. A senator spoke of an equation at first and is probably academic, at least in my opinion, one of the most important equations. I am self - equal, liberal, and express liberalness there. I think this is one of the most important devices to achieve an equation. In fact, I believe, if it is, that equations are not just a matter of being fair. It's also that, but to me it's mostly about power balance and balance, because if it's too much inflexible, there's gonna be some weird combination of money with freedom and power, so that someone becomes overly powerful and others overly powerless and freedomless and can't really work out their dreams for the future. There I would think that education is the first thing we should discuss with the authority of people who do not have much freedom in their lives. I wondered, away from the specific case we're discussing here, the 300 million that obviously needs to be added, whether there's something that the left movement like the left motion would fight for, and spend until red death rather than risking it with something like that -- I don't know what to call what I've been suggested here, using the reserve. [[The president calls.]] Isn't it a lot of character for a class that teaches itself to the left, teaching itself at the equation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u234	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yeah, yeah, it's character. I'm not going to stand here and say that the left movement, uh, green production, is not as good as education is an important part of growing the equation in society. I think it was a mess. But they just have to figure it out. And they must figure it out before we set up the budget for 2019 C.E. This is the case in the Norwegian states when people wonder why there is such an equation and why there are so many good things in the Norwegian countries that countries want to see, it is out of these three strong foundations for communities, i.e. A responsible economy, a strong welfare system with good schools and a secure school system that affords all opportunities, and a third, healthy workforce. That's why we need, for example. here to look out for fraud and social subheadings, which are now increasingly in the labour market and are, unfortunately, linked to the imported labour force more than the Icelanders, causing social inequities and anger. When inequities become severe and governments do not use their controls to straighten them out, there is an increase in social anger and crime, and our health becomes worse. Of course we should be contributing to equality. [[The president calls.]] A powerful educational system is a large part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u235	A respectable president. People who knew me at school would not expect me to stand here in the town of Generals, preaching about the importance of education. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I believe that education is nothing less than the most important and fairest equation device based on the idea that so - called right men prefer to get into, i.e. Those who believe in the equation that revolves around equal opportunities primarily. I don't feel exactly the same way. I want to go beyond that. Well, there's a lot of opportunities, but if we look at the equation that is based on constant opportunities, then education is absolutely a key there, first of all. Second, I wonder how far we should go, because I've sometimes called myself a human being, and I don't want to blame myself otherwise on other tragic ideologies, i.e. I believe that people should have access to education. I believe she should be free or as good as, close as we can. I'm that belief, at least until someone proves against it, that we're going to be very late on the oversized education system. I've always felt that there is no need for money in education regardless of the particular case we address here because it is the basis for everyone to have equal opportunities, at least equal opportunities, perhaps never equal opportunities, since people's circumstances differ. But I think of this as the most important thing. Therefore, I feel that it is so important that we prevent the decision made earlier today that we will not extend this temporary law to be some failure for this important equation. If that's the result of something like that, when we know the amount and we've had this conversation here at the Hall, it'll be very difficult to forget or to forgive it later, I think. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u236	Mr. President. I'm not going to compete with what. A senator of being more educated than he is. But I completely agree with what. A senator when it comes to education. But I'm worried about college. When the crash struck, I was working in high school. We had made a lot of money in the high school system until the crash. And the high school directors at the high school participated in the economy and obtained good results, resulting in the failure of the crash, there was no fat cut. However, because of increasing the number of young jobseekers, the need for service was even greater, and it was, of course, the right choice for the left government to open high school to them. However, as a result, high school saves in furniture, equipment, maintenance, anything they could save in which they did not serve. But now it's payback time. Today, buying chairs and tables in two rooms without having to cut back an offer of study. In this regard, we need to take special note of the high school system. We must definitely not walk out of this house and set up the budget for 2018 with regard to higher schools hanging that they have to cut down about 300 million because of today's decision. We must unite in handling this matter in a proper way. Not with some piece of shit in it, but with some serious proposal we approve and guarantee that this apparent accident will not happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u237	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator greatly appreciated the explanation in her talk on authority to use a reserve. Now, the one here has been attending a council for about two weeks and thus has a very limited level of congregational experience in the opposite direction. A senator who taught us about this with a reserve fund and, in fact, in contrast to that member of the left movement, a green bid on a budget, which referred to the use of reserves to finance the 300 million missing in high school after deciding not to charge industry and workers in particular for their material expenses and thus to make serious differences. My business in a pita tonight is asking why. A senator is well understood that this reserve is not to be used, that it is not at the point when budgets are discussed to finance something in the future, next year, with the reserves defined in the government laws on public finances. It would be good if the newborn could be taught.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u238	Mr. President. Official financial laws discuss a general reserve that is supposed to be 1% of the budget. It also discusses the reserves of lawsuits and paintings, but it is collected into them. There is no reserve in the high school language. They would have to go to a general reserve. A general reserve is discussed in Article 24. it's a government law. I want to read what it says, by permission of the President: A financial bill should be arranged for a limited general reserve to respond to temporary, unpredictable, unfortunate, and cannot be handled in any other way according to these laws. It goes on to say that the reserve should be worth at least one percent of the budget. It is obvious from the lyrics that the money cannot be decided before the budget has been arranged to do something that the greater part decided and take it out of the general reserve. Clearly, this is not going to work, and it is clearly stated in Article 24. it's a government law. And you can't go to the reserve for the rousing party because there is no dollars there. So that's not a good way. Either we have to accept Pirata's proposal, which is already about 300 million. K. extras in college management or the administrative sector suggests a similar suggestion. This must go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u239	Mr. President. Then perhaps you should ask. Harðardóttir The correct understanding of this cannot be said to be an unexpected or unforeseen cost of making a decision here tonight, so there is a very little surprise and unforeseen regarding the expenditure at this point, something that we cannot consider to the future. If I got this right, there's no law clearance and maybe it would've been better if it were. A senator named Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir would have known that there was no record in the law to use a reserve fund, especially if the reserve is not available for the seminary of high school, but then a general reserve of measures made by the government and the administrative body to decide and the administrative part of the Parliament during or before the budget is approved. If I understand this correctly, we are in the position that the greater part must accept Pirata's proposal of 300 million, or make an independent suggestion, if the government cannot, under any circumstances, show a solidarity with the colleges and solidarity with the smaller parts of the council and simply accept the solution available. There isn't even a need for work, there's a suggestion. Is this not correct with the one we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u240	Mr. President. Yeah, you're absolutely right. At this meeting, we are setting up the budget for 2018. We are now agreeing on what we will spend the money we have, which we have decided to use, and for which we earn money. That's what we're supposed to decide now. But if there is something going to happen, and we don't see that it will happen in 2018, we'll think that options have come true that have been distributed today in newspapers and weekly newspapers, we might have concluded that we should have read the predictions. No, of course not. We don't know if there's going to be a big volcano here, but it's gonna cost you. Then we can go to the reserve. Then it's important to have the reserve. Let us say that tourists are more sensitive than we anticipate, and this will cause problems, and we can go to the reserve to deal with it. But we do not go to the reserve to cover the unfounded decision of the management sector. Of course, it is willing and willing. We can't accept that. Hence, we will talk very highly until we are given proof that the administrative part will not be willing in this way and will place extra weights on high school in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u241	Mr. President. I got a little ahead of myself because of what's left of it. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson, who is then in the hall in the meantime. But I'm not gonna have this very far this time. It's really two things I want to come on. In the first thing, I'm gonna do the same knees and knees. paritaprevir For me, this is the case with Oddný G. Harðardóttir of high school and the 300 million missing to ensure their progress after the changes made earlier today. What it's all about is chemical cost. Well, I understand it's not really about reimbursement fees, which are a little smaller, and maybe there's room to go down on this demand. I'm not going to say exactly how far, but it's clear that you can't, and it's not acceptable to leave the high school system with 300 million. K. A hole, or whatever the amount is, right now at the start of a new year of budget. We know that the change that was made here earlier today will give us a hole of some magnitude. It's just a matter of doing our job decently, making sure it's done well. In this context, we have two questions; on the one hand, whether the laws on public finances as they are made - we are gradually collecting experience in how they work - perhaps being a little too rigid in some of the ways involved. It may be the arrangement for the reserve, whether it is a reserve reserve of a cause or a general reserve, just too narrow a format so that things can be done properly. I'm not a court order. I have very limited experience with the conduct of these new laws on public finances. But as time goes by, the law's not working as well as people hoped. They had good expectations at first. The law is clear, though. According to these, three conditions that must be followed, which have been very much discussed during the last days, must be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. Then there is the question of the precise posing of the reserves. Because I want to be specific, I ask, " How can you fix this? ' There are some ways that are quite obvious. One is that we only add to the budget for high school that the Pirantar have made a change, and I hope to walk through tonight because it's the most simple way to fix this. Another way would be to reduce the overall reserve of spares. Then we're in the same place, but then we won't change the rest of the government's business, then there won't be 1.4% left over, or whatever the government intends to do in the state business. There's one way. But that means the common reserve is slightly lower. It is interesting to consider how the common reserve has been used in recent years. I went through the budget bill earlier and checked each team for myself. There were quite a few special changes. One of them was an increase in the general reserve of the land around Geys, which is in my mind of a monotherapy operation, at least for a short time, but this is not an unpredictable operation to which it was authorized in 2017's budget. And this was not inevitable, since it could have been delayed if the coin was not anticipated. This is a question of the subject. I'm pretty convinced that the government will not begin his reign with 300 million. K. A mess in the high school system, but she has said she wants to clean up until she does, and she's got some evidence that she's serious about it. Then we'll have to solve it. We're just gonna have to sort this thing out tonight. Pirate's proposal is the solution to the problem. We can round up this general reserve to meet this if it's changing. I really don't care if we do or don't. But we have to fix this. It's totally done. There is another subject that I briefly discussed in the council work yesterday. In these days, news came from the United States that President Donald Trump had taken quite a fit and determined in one of the greatest and most ridiculous diplomatic acts I have ever seen, to reduce contributions to the United Nations by 258 million dollars, which are expected at around 25 billion dollars, if I do not miscalculate. That's a lot of money, all right. It is important for an organization like the United Nations. It is difficult for people in the community to understand what the United Nations daily does and why the small decision to take the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is of some importance. I am not going to follow the history of the United Nations No. 181 and 194 here, or the history of the second caused by the second emissary, may be too farfetched, but we need to realize that a global decision was made in time not to be represented by the world's embassies in Jerusalem until the issues of Israel and Palestine were resolved in a proper way. The United States did not have a embassy in Jerusalem at that time, but Brazil and Chad and countless other countries brought their embassys out of Jerusalem to solve this problem. That's what's been going on. Over many decades, the issue has gradually been beginning to flare up. Then this man, the president of the United States, actually turns the table around, starts to cause all kinds of bad wishes. One fine journalist said after the United Nations decision that happened that day: Now toys are being thrown. Because it's really the feeling that comes from the decision made by President Donald Trumps that he make a statement in childishity and that he has no respect for what has been achieved in the miserable ice that has existed between Palestine and Israel for decades. Pirat and I have proposed a new proposal that will come in this evening, which is simply about trying to counteract the President's tantrum. Our suggestion is that Iceland pays a little bit of this 25 billion, little 100 million. K., which is a fairly large bit, yet moderately associated with the current Iceland budget for the United Nations, and that we increase our contributions to the United Nations, which is therefore our share in the remaining 193 countries of the United Nations if the United States decides to remain in this childish fittle. Hopefully, other countries would follow, thus ensuring the work of the United Nations. There were two countries who passed through a recent vote on this matter at the UN General Assembly, South Sudan, and Uganda. These two countries may have been absent because they had followed the threat that development aid would be dropped to the countries that would vote against the United States on this matter. Not everyone knows because there are now a lot of humanitarian problems in South Sudan, and they even have them. leading to the fact that only October of last year was a large area in northern Uganda empty. It was really just a big tuna. Since then and up to this time, some 600,000 people have moved from South Sudan to this tuna in northern Uganda as refugees. This is a huge refugee camp, which is caused by a battle in South Sudan. These refugee camps are financed in a very limited way. They have very little opportunity to fire themselves. There are a number of problems when twice the population of Iceland is suddenly transferred in one year into areas much less than Iceland, where very little resources are available. I know people who have worked in these refugee camps and have seen pictures from there. It is really remarkable, though, what has been done to build up something that reminds us of a decent life for those who have fled this conflict. However, this is just one of the countless examples of what the United Nations will do and try to promote world peace, which the President of the United States has now risked to a very vulnerable area of childishness and freckles. It is our duty to prepare for the United Nations organization, to ensure that the work done there will be done in the least because there are many more things we could do. There are very big problems, such as. in Myanmar, where the Rohlin people live. There are problems in North Korea. There are problems around the world. We can, the whole world, fix it together, but then presidents in the United States and maybe more are going to need a little less aggression and a little less childish, but small nations like Iceland may have to make a little more of our money to support these good works. Otherwise, such projects as the Oslo process, which lasted in 1993-1995, are actually doomed because solidarity does not exist. Political and reality on earth are intertwined in many ways. We've got to do our thing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u242	A respectable president. When you're political replacements, as I am, you gradually find out that there's not everything that you want. Promises are sometimes just words that promise themselves rather than those that they focus on, sometimes just words. In educational and cultural matters, for example, there is now an educational and cultural background. a mass - scale press of a government contract that looks very good, and there is no need to question good plans and ideal thinking. Governments, tops. A minister of education in that subject, we will not be able to stand in the United States to support them in their plans. Admittedly, though, you get a little bit of a thought about material that you watched before elections, and then you watch them change and mutations that happen when campaigning on their way out of a government contract and on a financial bill. Before the election, it was the highest. The minister of education of Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddóttir for decommissioning the value tax on books and then following in a government contract, but when it came to a bill for their budgeting, it was a shock that the book tax has begun to be taken off in the mouth of the highest power. Minister total approach. She has started talking about the media and music and even the affairs of the entire Icelandic language in this regard. Independence has taken hold of this, even occasionally. A gentleman in the left green, and he has begun to link it to decommissioning valuable tax on the press, printing media, and many are apparently willing to kill this remarkable cultural language in distribution, no matter how well planned and want to go to the top. Secretary of education. That is what happened with the promise, but we see what happens. It is appropriate to quote the poet's good speech, the Sigurður of Pálsson's son, when he reminded politicians of promises, whose Sigurður son Pálsson spoke, indirectly quoting Gertrud Stein, by permission of a president: A promise is a promise. And a promise is a promise. This morning we witnessed such a promise. The function was from the change in proposal to allow the industry to depend on its substance costs. Is the amount of money it's costing up to 300 million. K., for instance, to have an unfair payoff on a trade student who has fallen between them and the Congregation Book Students, and yet has a high regard for many of them. Most of us agree, as well as the education minister's policy, to promote industrial education and encourage promising students in that field to go to trade, to stop directing people into literature automatically. This morning, as we have entered the hall, we received an announcement in the 11th hour, a joyous moment, that there would be a fall from this proposal. And there arose quiet joy here in this hall. Now, however, it seems that the boat is being loaded by the day, as the funding of this proposal seems to have not been fully satisfied or fully planned. Will money be taken from reserves, as is the case with volcanic eruptions and emergency measures? That doesn't sound good. Will this be financed by next year's budget? It's a complicated subject, as we've been given to hear a variety of interesting statements here tonight, and maybe we'll hear more about it. Will this be taken from other high school funds? Let us hope so, then, that we do not exist. A respectable president. I want to make another matter a little bit of a talker, another promise, another beautiful promise. It's about the carbon expenditure and the reduction in their rise pay from the last government bill we see here on a new budget bill. I realize that this sort of thing has come under contracts and agreements between the groups that come together to the government. But I am quick to remind you that this is one of the main issues that the left greens were actually formed, one of the major basics where left greens felt that they were out to bring a better, more true course than all the other groups. During this discussion, the prime minister's debate said the highest. Environment Minister, with permission of presidents: And then the left green counts are urgent in a global review of green taxes that promote climate-friendly decisions. A 50% rise in carbon tax is the first stage of that journey. This is not a strong word for word, according to a declaration of policy, by permission of the president: At the beginning of the terms of the terms of the season, there will be an increase of about 50% in the next few years in terms of the expected climate action programme. The reduction in carbon costs will be amongst other things. A financial bill entitled "Bjarni son of Benediktsson, " is presented on page 5 of this magazine. 85, with President's permission: ▪ The total payoff of automobiles and fuel is already under way. That work in a working group appointed by the secretary of finance and economics in February 2016 is intended to offer proposals for the future government policy on these issues. His proposals include... taking into account that taxation contributes to less greenhouse gas emissions, guarantees sufficient income to support the maintenance and development of transport workers, and reduces taxation on the property and production of vehicles. In this context, it is proper to assume that a total of income was actually published in June 2008. You might therefore conclude that there is a problem and that there is a problem with solutions. In other words, the General Congress agreed to this budget as stated above, and there seems to be a lot of evidence to be done, and in other words, it will be on top of the highest level. The financial and economic secretary of Bjarni Benediktsson, whether or not anything will be done to reduce the disposal of cars. It has been estimated that a 100% rise in carbon tax as represented by the last government would have cost car owners about 30 percent. $12,000. is 10,000 miles per year. We've heard these anticarbon charges that there is a special tax in the country, such as the country's settlement, some single group, and just normal people living there, with all the same interest because they can buy cheap gasoline. Of course, this has never been investigated or investigated by e.g. The living room or the Agency's office. Of course, there are no data to support this claim. I suppose it costs a lot of carbon money for people like me, but I drive here every day to work and then back home on Elfunes where I live. In fact, Elfunes may be in the same rural group as the highest. Secretary of finance lives in what is called Garville. In other words, most likely the cost for people who drive to Reykjavík daily is from the Garden Town, Hafnarfjördur, Kópavogi, or north of Mosfellsville. Who knows but that day could ever rise to the highest. The secretary of finance will be traveling with us to work here to Reykjavík for an electric mission. Transport is the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions in Iceland, i.e. the part that falls under government operations at home. So we have to cut down on automobiles and replace trucks with fuel or diesels. We have 12 years to go. A respectable president. Opinions on this budget are about how political differences usually occur, how we share the social and social benefits, and how we share in the benefits of society, and how we share our burdens on the common tasks of society in transport, education, and health, and so on. Equals believe that the role of governments is to make sure that everyone has equal opportunities to make the best of his abilities, that everyone has the opportunity to enjoy himself in association with other people, and at the same time, to have the advantage of healthy employment, to make sure that variety of activities thrives. It is the society's investment in the private enterprise and the investment of the private enterprise in society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The project is about this interaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u243	The president wants to make a decision to give a speech lesson. When the president was a parking guard, it was so that when men had been very long, they gave a little extra slack before they accepted a fine. On the other hand, if they had stayed short - lived, such as in protests and so forth, their tolerance for what was involved was slightly greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u244	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's always fun to listen to what's happened. A senator. One of the words he used a little bit much was the concept and the word of promise. I have a strange opinion, I think it must feel strange, of election words in particular, or of promises in connection with politics. You see, politicians do not control the future. They do not provide all the circumstances. Therefore, for a certain period of time I have been struggling with this term and that we are using it in politics. Now I realize that it's probably a minority opinion, certainly, among the people, and probably here at the Council too. But I think it is worth the effort that we take to heart the responsibility of making a promise. When I was a senator last since 2013,2016, I received a lot of mail from people who had a serious problem and wanted a solution to their affairs. What I had to deal with was to tell these people that I didn't want to promise them something, say that I would do something I couldn't see how I would do, and especially when it came to social security. In fact, now I'm going to go a little too much out for this short answer. What I wonder is: A senator spoke of promises. I may have misunderstood, but I understand that in the context of election code. I think it's a little different. I view it as a matter of sorting out direction and vision, promising to do their best, promising integrity, promising everything, but we don't control situations. Now we have a group in a government called the Left Motion, and then I really feel like - regardless of the promises it may have made or some voters have interpreted as a promise or whatever, and that is the nature of the party itself that he is a left movement - she must say with a what? Senator. Because of it. A senator went so hard into this promise - giving situation I wanted to ask him what. A senator's details. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u245	A respectable president. First, I'd like to make a promise to a respectable president that I will not exceed the amount of time I am meant to spend and measured here. But I appreciate it. A senator for the question and for these thoughts, this meditation, this need for meditation on the word promises that we may make too much use in the day's political discussion. You sometimes feel something like voters think of themselves as some sort of consumers, they're consumers, politicians are market defenders, and the voter is like that in front of a shelf, and he's choosing from that shelf what he best described, and the politicians try to make themselves the most desirable merchandise of promises. Try to appeal to some different groups of voters with promises of certain options that may be useful to voters each time during their daily activities. It may be less important that politics focus on basics, principles, and politicians put forth their basic perspective on life and ask voters to rely on them to follow the basic policy of solving problems, and to make decisions on all kinds of issues that might arise. Now all I can do is finish my speech because the light is starting to blink, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u246	The president respects it with the senator's promise to respect speech time, but he will not be overly anxious about it, even though he may accidentally go past the deadline, but, of course, he will remind us of it all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u247	A respectable president. The delay in President's iron discipline is due, as is usual. - Calm down what I was going to ask you. Senator to. About those promises. When we say something in a campaign, I think it's a question, well, because of that. A senator mentioned that the voters trusted some politicians to do what they say. I think it's important that politicians do what they say. Therefore, I feel that it is so important that they do not always say that they will do something that they will not necessarily be able to do. This will be the ridiculous competition for a campaign. We all know that, at least most of those who have served in the ministry. We're set up at a meeting and a group of people asking for something. I am now the most memorable of the insurance fees, for after that, it was elected against it earlier, when all classes had promised to do so, except the Piratars, if gone. Our political responsibility must also be that if we are going to live up to what we say, we need to be careful of what we say, and somehow we need to resist the competition that we have to be always praising things without knowing how we are going to cultivate them. This also happens in terms of a lack of time and assistance here at the General Assembly. Or when groups complain that they don't have time, other senators come and act as if it's just a failure; of course, all members of the Parliament should read all the affairs, all 800 cases of each assembly or what it is. Really. This kind of competition has to pretend, I can do it. And always in the spoken word, not in the doing. I am determined that our responsibility is not merely a promise. Our responsibility is to share with them what we can and to acknowledge that we cannot do everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u248	A respectable president. I thank you for this spiritual reflection on the promises and roles of politicians. It's certainly so that you sometimes see politicians stand and try to scream as high as they have made promises in the invitations, then you see the man of this same politician here at the Senate try to turn himself out of these promises and come to the fault--it's sometimes played here some sort of Black-Peter where Black-Svarti-Pétur is passed, and then some one miserable politician or political party lives up with the Black Peter not to reach the promise of any other party that was even completely unrealistic. As I said before, I believe politics should be about basics and fundamentals of the ideal order in society and a fundamental view of how we share the goods and the rest of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u249	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorsson, son of Thors for his speech, very fine speech. He spoke of promises and quoted poetry after the Sigurður of Pálsson's son. And then I thought of a man I knew, who's dead now, he never promised anything, and if they asked him for anything, he always started saying no, so that he might have a yes. The Senator spoke of decommissioning a valuable tax on books, and we in the Central Party have spoken of it as well. When you start considering this case, it's not a lot of money in the context of the state's budget, 350 million or as much as it would cost. But it's hard to publish books. Books have become expensive. You have heard that many publishers are giving up; they are having books printed outside. We, who call ourselves a book people, are deteriorating in this regard. I'd like to ask the senator what he thinks is hanging over there on that stick, i.e. the fact that this promise is not going to work out. And what about industrial students? We've talked about getting it specially marked in the budget, but it doesn't seem possible. Then I ask, too, although both of us are in a position of government, "What's the problem?" A senator who can hang there on the stick?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u250	Thank you. A senator for those answers. The current Icelandic edition is complex and not new, and it may have been followed by this business, which is a bit like the silor's; sometimes it is good, and sometimes adventureful, and sometimes very bad and bad, it is never the tip of a book version. Over the last few years, literature has been contrary. There are changes in eating habits, decreasing reading, decreasing colporteurs taking them to heart. It is not to deny that there is a limit to what the State has done, and the circumstances in which this industry has been established have not been sufficiently effective. On the other hand, I state that I am not beyond the limits of hope that the intention of a minister of education for improvement in this field will not be accomplished. To be honest, I hope that sooner and later the book tax will be taken away and there will be a number of other measures that are urgent to support this important culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u251	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. It's a very strange time to agree with the financial laws. I agree, probably it's part of the answer, but this isn't coming right now, but hopefully later. The Senator mentioned the carbon tax. I've been studying the history of carbon emissions research into the atmosphere, and the results are somewhat different. The automobile tax was being talked about earlier and the pollution from cars. I saw a disk that shows that the largest emissions are from advanced ground, about 40 to50%, but the car spill is only 4How5%, since 2015. To me, this was quite remarkable, considering all the information on pollution from cars - and surely we should help reduce their pollution. But has the senator seen this disk? An inquiry to the Minister in 2015 provided such disks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u252	A respectable president. I'm so careful to stay within the time frame, after the admonition of a respected president earlier, that I couldn't get over to answer the second question by then. A senator of the past regarding trade studies, and in fact, I do not have the answer to that question. But I reiterate the need that industrial education is greatly promoted here and that young people who are skilled in these fields are directly involved in industrial studies rather than in book studies. With this disk--no, I have to admit I haven't seen it. On the other hand, with this exhaust, we need to apply every means possible, regardless of whether it is the recovery of wetlands. A senator is referring to - and certainly too far in the development of swamps in the last century - and just as we need to electron the vehicle fleet and to reduce the emissions of cars by all means, by any means possible. I've felt that this review of the carbon pay in this budget was a little bit of a matter for a government fund, and I don't know what it means. But I thought the environmental part was only forgotten, but it's naturally important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u253	Mr. President. It was interesting to listen to a conversation between two faces. Senators on a promise. It may well be that political and political groups are getting a big grip on themselves. In this way, it may be difficult to expect men to fulfill all their promises after elections, especially in a system like ours, where there is no tradition that there is a overwhelming chance of grouping people who live together and being neighbors in politics becoming involved in an organization after election and would be a government. Of course, the government formed today is no exception. Many said that this was the cooperation of the parties at the bottom of the political spectrum. Actually, I don't agree with that. There are many and many things that understand the left green and independent party that on this traditional left/ right axis, but in politics there are so many other dimensions, such as nationalism, internationalism, controlling, liberalness, and other things. The Treaty states that these three categories, which constituted a government, are greatly compatible in many areas of human life where we would have had to make radical changes, changes in our system. Then I'm talking about currency, farming and fishing business, but that's enough. There have been two elections over a year in which political parties praised precisely. Most people wanted to make a major contribution to health, education, and transportation infrastructure. Then there were several categories that put much emphasis on social stability, building it up, and saying that he was not only a fair matter but also the best way to make peace with a labour market, so that people who are forced to live in the worst of terms would not always have to live in the fear that we least suffered like illness and accidents, such as storing the car, such as missing animals, would become family life and economic conditions at one end of the home. In effect, for these elections, there are two distinct categories, convergences, and left greens that are very focused on these factors, i.e. approach to the Norwegian welfare system and the North American model based on three pillars; economic stability, free labour agreements between employers and public employees; and third, social stability. In the North, it is not that social stability is used as a change in order to get employees to reduce even their demands and make peace with others less than that, but is the prerequisite for security. Therefore, the frustrations in my mind are so great that the present government opposition, which reached a greater part in these elections, should not become a failure to form a government from the center to the left, especially on these projects. Others were critical, too, that were depravity, secretism, and patriotism, which was only possible by holding the independence party outside the table. It didn't work, and it doesn't mean anything to curse it. But this would have made it more likely that the classes could have fulfilled the promises they made. That's why I'm still a little shot at the whole piracy that the lines are supposed to be clearer to elections. I don't think it's good that two, three weeks before elections, as experiment was done before the last election, it's only a custom that finally makes it perfectly clear to the voters what pattern they can provide for themselves. Now it's a little bit like a Russian roulette, or like going to a diner that has 20 dishes on the menu and it's very easy to make endless versions of good combinations, but you can also turn a bicycle, and you can also find out if you can get a piece of soy sauce or rice or carrion or anything else. It's too random. We have to disappear from that, I think. I think this budget bill, the government deal, and this uplifting period, possibly three and a half years, four years, will tell us we can't live with this anymore. The disappointments also turn to the Treaty as a new method of work. They were to include more than that smaller things and more things should work more closely together to make things more efficient and better and to increase the voice of the smaller part. There is nowhere in developed Western countries, except maybe the United States, the tradition that whoever works with the least possible will merely care for everything. The memory part is always right. In mature democracy, 49% of the nation must have their unsettled rights. That is why when we realized that none of us were to want any of our commissions or on what committees we had taken the lead or anything, we were all rejected. When there are these changes that must fall at least two of the three categories in the government, it doesn't seem possible to do that because they're working with such different parties in command that it's all in irons, everything's locked down. In the end, natural disappointments are the most boast of those who are left behind. Although I am truly going to celebrate health and education structure, I am sure to find that there is much more to it than good and narrow. It is good, too, only to be put on transportation, although it is far from what was promised in the 2016 approved transport program. But it sucks that nothing should be done for the worst estate that's ever to wait because there's never a coin, that's never the time. We can't afford to do anything for them. Then, of course, I'm talking about the elderly, I'm talking about the poor, young family members, I'm talking about poor children. You would have felt that the adjustments made by various categories should have been made in showing the smallest expression of respect for the rights of these people. Of many suggestions made by the United States, e.g. If I could mention child interest and interest, I could bring up the increase in money in the case of the elderly, I could name the abject poverty, but it was all rejected. I kind of think that's the saddest thing. The last act of government is to do something real in welfare this morning when adjustments were made that were very modest, such as the fact that people under minimal benefit from children's welfare, or that people who live in modest housings that have tripled or 4-folded into value in recent years without having something to do with them while in their apartments get more interest. All of this was rejected. I was thinking, under the discussion that maybe this class that I put the greatest hope in in the government, and I have an amazingly powerful group of senators and a good policy of changing my name and throwing away my name, just calling myself green. But then the action on climate matters that are spoken so easily of in the government covenant. It will also freeze unless one chooses to use another meaning in the word greener than the environment, of course, that is a person's choice. The environment was to be the flagship, but there is far too little to hold. It has disappeared from raising carbon costs as much as was suggested in the last government that I was not pleased with, but it showed quite a color to the environment. It disappears from the State Fund 2 billion that could have been reached as income and could have been completely used for the rise in child reforms that we proposed this morning. Besides, I'm getting a little tired of people believing that it's all going to work out by laying spells on cars. This is essential, and I supported a full carbon bill as it appears in the fall. But the problem with the car is not just the energy source, not just the fuel that is very bad and that needs to be reduced. It's also just the car's quality, that's the motility. Today you can live between work and driving home at night and drive another 100 to play soccer games and another 70 to go and buy you for dinner, all in one day. This makes the structure grow and becomes insurmountable in itself. There is therefore concern, then, that in the Treaty, there is no mention of the human environment, which is certainly the factor that would enable us to achieve the most results in climate, except that there is no money involved in the financial bill. I hope there's a new environmental minister I understand that arrived at the table after the government's deal was fixed there. Eventually, all governments will be judged by their actions. [[The president calls.]] This one has support, natural, people called for cooperation. [[The president calls.]] It is a talented politician and a popular prime minister. However, the initial efforts are that if this government is not corrected, its members will be gone very quickly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good talk, in fact, so good that I think I will listen to her again when I get home tonight or night or whenever it will be. I see, I'm not gonna promise you that. That was, in effect, the first part of a talk. A senator whom I found especially interesting about how things turn out here according to how a government is formed. It may not be necessary to count the fact that now these two alleged opposites of the Polish, the left, green, and independent party, in a group of government and promotions that have always described themselves as a middle class and appear to be somewhat molded, have been seen throughout the ages, depending on a group of colleagues, which is in a certain way honorable. I believe that working together with Independence class was a big mistake. I think we're going to be in a bit early, I think we're gonna find out already. Just like that, I agree with what. Senator, I understood why. At least a member of the council is not to blame himself. They're fine people who are in the government, full of great people over there, they can't belittle it, but there's something in our situation that makes the government still become the way it is, no matter how good people are in the government. That's why I don't necessarily trust any other members of the council that I have as much opinion or more of in order to enter a government under such circumstances, without having to make any changes in their system. Hv. A senator mentioned that he had come to believe that there should be a clear advance of which groups of people would be willing to work in the government. Is there anything else that stands out? I've got to get my big question to a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u255	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator that there are many great people in the government and in the administrations of all, but, of course, I agree more with some categories in the government than with others. But it's this forced position, this system of ours where everyone can land in the room with everyone after the party which makes it bad for voters, and it forces you to go down to the lowest common name in all matters. The fact is, at times, it will not be a bird or a fish. It is not possible to step in either foot, either the right foot or the right foot of the welfare leg. It seems to be there right now. These are general speculations, because I'm not going to hide that like left greens before elections they're at least My neighbors in politics, though I share with them on various subjects, currency, agriculture, fishing, and other matters. The basic work we carried out was: A To cope with the worst of the world's rifts and to build social stability. B to challenge the integrity of cousinry, secretism and corruption that have destroyed two last governments. This current pattern is therefore impossible. They could have been able to attack A's, but they don't, b was naturally impossible. We don't have to talk about it. That's why the premeditated conclusion would have been - I'm afraid to stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u256	A respectable president. I'll agree more and more. A senator according to what he's talking about longer. But I'm also hoping that I will succeed in convincing him of something that we've talked about before, which is the fact that groups would publish in advance who they are willing to join in the government. It is this that I am constantly inciting, the strange relationship between the European Commission and the legislature and the legislators, and how it is an overwhelming inconsistency, I think, between the speech of the General Assembly of the Public Institutes and the public, I would hold, and certainly the dignified president of the Parliament and others, concerning the fact that this is the state's highest institution and Ministers say that the capital is at the General Assembly, but then I need to consult with the Ministers, if the Allied would like some adjustments. It's really weird if you think about it. In my opinion, this relationship is the whole weird pattern we see now. However, there must be a reason why it is said that the Council is the highest authority in the Republic and that it is said that the U.S. Council has the legal authority. I don't think it's just being pulled off a hat somewhere, I think it's because these are good ideas. It is a good idea that the Republic's highest organization consists of national terms elected by direct elections. It is a good idea that the fund is in the hands of that institution and not in the hands of the European Commission. But the reality will always be different. I think it's the only way to explain this which would otherwise be completely incomprehensible, certainly before the election. I'd like to draw some. A senator more towards me in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u257	Mr. President. Of course, I'm kind of a green guy in here, I've been for a year, and I haven't had a lot of experience. Yet, I have experienced that it has been funded by the Council without any government other than the government. It went fine. We will see what comes out of a document, where two or three very different categories of money may pass through the council. I don't know what it is. A senator was saying that, but perhaps it would be the way for us to take up a budgetary committee and call down the council and work with the officials the budget they thought of and then send to the Commission and ask for what they should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u258	President. I'm gonna try to have an intellectual conversation here at five minutes to eleven in the evening on this long day. Still, I find this interesting conversation to be a minor concern about our work in this house and how it all works out. I'm new here, too. I've been here for a year. I always notice better and better -- I wonder what this new government is all about, that the Independence Party comes back and forth, and that it doesn't seem to matter what any members of Congress do or what this group does; these members get away with everything. These ministers get away with everything and somehow they move on, continue to their thrones of power, and continue to control this land. I'm watching this old political bitch who's going on, the acting thing that's going on behind the scenes, and how senators come up in a pit, not only from the board but also from the smaller parts, members of Congress who've been at the council much longer and have more experience, and there seems to be a semi-act play in progress. It's all about getting attention, and it's actually kind of like Morfis. I'm sorry. That's what I feel at a council hall, that people come up, and it's all about who's wise to talk, who can say as much as possible, but as much as you can remember. I wondered how we can change it and whether the present government is somehow - whether it's a fear of the new politics, the new parties that come to council and offer a new political bitch. Is that what holds this government together, i.e. trying to stop the change in the council, that the new ideal comes in, and we change things for the good here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u259	Mr. President. Of course, I'm not going to any of the classes that formed this government to have gone into it in order to try to prevent new practices, not at all. But in order to achieve their policy, they have undoubtedly taken some form of mountain back road, so to speak, because it can hardly be the easiest way to take classes that are so different and to make them some document that is to be pleasing to all. If you gather all the colors of the world and stir them, you get gray or brown, then you don't get that beautiful tone that our eyes can study. There is a much greater chance that this tone, the beautiful colors we possess in the world, will shine if there is not some random trash in the bucket, whether it is a solidarity, an independent party, or anyone else. I don't think it changed anything with this government, that a conversational tradition got worse here at the council, but promises of new employment give at least Not good expectations, because as I mentioned in my speech, on the first day, people began to reject all the proposals of the government on committees. Since then, there have been no recognizable changes that might, at least, have been considered as unrecognisable. It's useful for some of the government classes to keep their word to their own voters. That's what worries me. Again and again, I come to what we have to say. paritaprevir Hrafn's Helgi talked about, that it would be the wisest thing to do in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u260	President. I wasn't trying to suggest that the operation had gotten worse with this government. If anything is, I feel a completely different attitude and it's totally different working with this government than with the first. I think the left movement, green advance, and forward probably puts forth a lot of effort to have the situation different from what it was here during the last term, which I felt was very bad. I have no doubt that people will come to this job, to Congress, with ideals. I know I did. I was just wondering how much influence all these media services have when you have as different categories as your left movement, the green offer as well as the independent party of control, the independent party that has already proved to be a failure to use its power and to play excessive ugly games. That's something I've noticed. I think it's like this--I don't know, I don't have any pretty words about it, so I'm not gonna say anything more about it. How much effect does it have on the will to change when the media have become so high that the moral line is far away from you? Is it really possible to act effectively when you cooperate with such a group that I feel has repeatedly proved to be a victim of mismanagement? There's corruption going on there. I wondered what it means to be part of such a partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u261	Mr. President. I wish I could agree with that. A senator's idea that the work of this government has changed for the last time. I haven't heard of it. I mentioned it in my speech why it is. The media do not have to be bad in their nature, but they do not have to be good. In Icelandic politics, the two most important medias are not necessarily the best in terms of a difference of 0.5% to a greater part or less or 2% or 1%, because less things always have the right and need to be respected. I don't want to live in an American system where the person who just crawls over the majority is the man. It's not democratic. I also reviewed it in my speech why I thought the Independence Party should not be in this government and should not be in the government right now. This simply makes it impossible for us to deal with one of the vital tasks we have to deal with, to counteract corruption, secret thinking, and cousinism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u262	Mr. President. This discussion will soon be over. All of us agree that the work being done in connection with the budget has been done in a much time pressure, and it is never going to be good for the results and good reflexes to do this work, an important project, in time pressure. Public financial matters have been discussed here. Their main means of law is to promote good economic management and the sustained and responsible government of public finance. Many have been overlooked in this discussion that this work has not been in the spirit of the law. We need to improve in this regard. We'll see, for example. The funds, he is in shouting opposition to the goals of these important laws. But there are some things that I would like to stop at the end and that I will try to avoid the repetition that the senators have become tired of. I've always been a spokesman for financial matters, and I'd like to stop for a little time from being told about the bill that my sentence has not received enough attention and the attention it deserves. The bank actually gave a warning, saying very clearly that the government budget does not show up in a conservative government policy. What does that mean? Reduced maintenance means the growth of steering growth, the growth of interest and the increase in the dollars. With the bill, the government is clearly that my opinion is that gambling is hardly any matter of economic stability. After all, we are faced with collective agreements in a new year. Instead of living for the benefit of a new year's living, my judgment is rapidly turning toward economic red light. Under such circumstances, we may not be easily overwhelmed by inflation, rising prices, and a lack of money. The crown's funding can also adversely affect our basic work, our tourism, and the exports in general. This important aspect of the budget has not been considered important to me. The bill contains e.g. sources of selling state property in banks must be very careful about taking money from banks. If it is not done carefully, it will mean an injection to the economy, which will resupply increase growth. Business organizations have agreed to this process, saying that discipline is not improving in the financial affairs, and the financial bill shows itself to be a stimulus for financial policy. This is a concern. I feel that this would have required more attention in this discussion. Then there's another thing I've come on a little before, wanting to explain it a little bit further, that there's no litigation policies like the health system. I welcome increased funding for that important matter party, but we must have the policy and the best use of our resources. They're putting a lot of money in the Land Hospital. The land hospital is the most expensive resource. This is a high-tech hospital and is to receive the most difficult of cases. [[To the point: He does.]] And you certainly do, but there are also cases where others could be solved and, as a result, will be less expensive. I am confident that the highest. A health minister agrees with me in this, that we need to find ways to make the most of the money, and this is one of those ways. Only with regard to education. I agree and welcome the extra emphasis that is found in the bill, but we also see this with the policy that is not enough for my judgment. We need to see where the greatest need is. They're going to put a lot of injections in college and college. But is increasing college education the right focus? Since the year 2000, the number of academics has increased by 184%, but the level of academic education has increased by 51% at the same time. We have not created jobs that require this education. There's a problem with concern and I would have liked to see an extra focus in industry and technology because there's a shortage of industrialized people today. There's some kind of strategy I'd like to consider in this case. ASI has said that it lacks education for those with little education. It is important for that group to arrive. When you go through this conversation, you ask yourself where you can save money. I'd like to mention one group of subjects that is, of course, fragile, but that is the issue of the trustees. We can see that this is a class of fewer than 2.7 billion. Then you ask yourself, " Is there a way to be saved? ' We have a report from the State Marshal who says that this system of ours, a fine system as far as it gets, is abused. Now I want to make a clear distinction between refugees and fugitives. I believe we should continue to welcome and do what we've done well. But how important it is to avoid abuse of the system, since it is very expensive! We have a way of doing it. In fact, there are accounts I've received from people who work in this sector that in certain villages in Eastern Europe, they say it's so easy to come to Iceland, and it's good to be here and to have a good reception, and these may be people who really don't need it. V.E.G. Just before elections, the Minister of Justice told a fine press interview in the Morning Press that these cases could be resolved in three days. It is important that the work is done. It's part of the fact that this system is not to be abused. Finally, I want to introduce another matter that is also sensitive to some members of the council, which is the church's subject. Some members of the council are exasperating the funds that go to the church for financial gain. But for this, there is a agreement, called a church meeting. This is a further application of the agreement between the State and the National Church on the Churches and the remuneration of the clergy, the personnel of the National Church, and the operating expenses, an agreement from 1997. The government has to live up to its agreements, as did others, and the point is that the state received all the churches apart from the priests'fields and was to pay the price of 138 priests, bishops, and 17 bishops in the Bishop's office, but in recent years as a result of cuts, the fee has now been reduced. It is a question of these churches, as it were, that even if I can't, I can put a price on them. What's the price, e.g. Þingir? These earths gave up the church for the State against a price. I believe this agreement is the benefit of both parties. The church provides a specific service that is important to the State, such as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. To preserve the nation's religious culture and all that has to do with the death of the individual, psychological care in medical institutions, nursing homes, etc. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the budget for the cooperation and chairman of the Committee for holding the job tight. As I say, it was worked in a lot of time pressure, but everyone contributed. I'd like to thank the members of the board again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u263	V.E.G. President. I recommend a change of motion on the deck. 142 on behalf of the highest. The budget board, together with the Commission, which includes a new $250 billion. K. a contribution to higher schools to be fully influenced by changes adopted earlier today in discussions about bill making adjustments in various laws due to budget 2018, which is about to collect material expenses in high school. This proposal is to make a full contribution. Under the suggestion, all write to each other. Senators at once. Fundamental Commission, Willum Þór Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Páll Magnússon, and Gírdur's Þorsteinn Víglundsson Gindur. We suggest that this adjustment form be adopted when we take the matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u264	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on the 2018 budget. These are optimism laws. They give hope for optimism and give the tone of building on our social infrastructure. This is at the same time the law of reason, the sense of reason when it comes to the economic impact of government money, the money being left over, and the continued subsidies due to a decrease in interest rate. A respectable president. It was a rough round, and I think it's a reason to thank you. The budget of contributions and solidarities, and I thank all members of the Committee as well as they came to the management of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u265	Mr. President. The budget bill that was put up here two weeks ago has an enormously important step in building the social structures that all of us have together. Of course, most of them are about large amounts of donations made to a health care that is the legal class that Iceland has set the top priority when they have been asked on polls and think that our priorities in our work here are important. There, the government's contributions now 8.5% of GDP, a significant increase from previous budgets. Here, too, education and transportation are on the rise. We're having an offensive in the infrastructure we've put on, not just for the last election, but for the last election. This does not mean that all the world's problems are being solved. I think we should appreciate these steps that I think are very important to our good society to make it even better, and I will gladly support these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u266	Mr. President. I'm not going to have any material discussions about this bill, I've done enough of it here. I'm just going to state that handling these funds in the way we do now is a tremendous disappointment. It is quite a lack of well - being. There is also a shortage of reliable income sources. I would like to use this vote to encourage all members of Congress to be more able to live up to what we promised in the event of an election. I think we can agree on doing much better when it comes to the necessary infrastructure in this country, that we can all travel on that road. Well, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u267	A respectable president. It is with special pleasure that I vote here with a bill for the budget of 2018. This is a historical increase to health, with an increase of more than 11 percent between years. This is a public interview, so the rate increases from 7.7% in the current year to 8.5 next year of gross domestic product. It's important. More importantly, protection is being turned to national public health, reduce patient costs, and halted that health - care projects move uncontrollably into private rooms. A policy with equal bioavailability regardless of economy and localisation is priority. We are to move forward in behalf of a powerful health system. All the people in Iceland put this party first. We should heed and comply with that requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u268	A respectable president. This financial bill is based on a weak foundation, based on small and large income stocks that break when the economy slows down. It is particularly noted that in recent years, several income - income bills have been dropped and might be helped to cool off and to slow down in the economy. I warn these conditions that mix up future agreements with the projection that inflation is crossing limits as well as a reminder that a high level of health care is being proclaimed in all references as if they're holding zero. You're right about keeping it out of a minus. The focus is on building clinics, but it's reaching the lack of maintenance and buildings in recent decades that haven't happened so that we barely reach zero. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u269	Mr. President. It is true that this financial bill includes a considerable expansion, in fact so much that it has not been seen since the state of Independence and the United States tried to buy happiness with an expansion of funds. What is involved in this money? That's less said. Ministers come up here and boast about how much money they can raise, but they don't talk much about how these expenses work or how they use it. You see, nothing is being done about improving our systems, improving the way the funds are handled. It's, for example. nothing has been done to cope with improving health - care systems, as a surgeon among many other experts has repeatedly pointed out the need to be done. There's no big talk in the others and in these cases, e.g. In transport, where there is a substantial cut-off from what is expected in a transport program, it is far - fetched. There is an increase in expenses in certain areas without doing anything about improving the systems involved, but elsewhere there is a clean cut to the previous plans. [[The president calls.]] All this talk, Mr. President, is as meaningless as they think it should be to improve and strengthen the rank of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u270	Mr. President. The joy of it is that the health - care system is going to keep seawater and is at its height. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir promises to make sure if there's anything wrong, if there's not enough in the year. This is a cause for joy. I hope that the health system will be adjusted by holistic policies and such. I hope for health matters. What I'm not hopeful about, and that's one of the biggest concerns we're facing, is the chicken business. According to one recent report, the highest. The secretary of the estate of Bjarni Benediktsson said that there is a need to increase the value of the country so that we can continue to improve the standard of living. The government covenant says that reconciliation in the market provides a basis for this growth. Nevertheless, the ASI says that this budget does not match the entire national employee body. In the summer, the work community mentioned that they were not meeting the reductions in insurance fees that are not being seen in income primary projections, so there seems to be no meeting the labour market parties in order to create this reconciliation. It doesn't seem to be really happening, and it's a great risk to all of us. And it does not seem that this government is planning to reduce or correct the salary paid by members of Congress in a general sense of pay development, this raise we received a year ago, so there is a great deal of concern. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u271	Mr. President. This bill certainly increases expenses for many good works. That, however, is a unprecedented increase, in which, contrary to the warnings of many people, on the contrary, across history, we need to be careful that at this very time, we need to be careful. Although we are happy to see the priorities found in this bill, we need to remember that today is a time of concern. This bill undermines economic stability. This bill contributes to a higher growth rate than any other. This bill teaches no lesson from the previous economy of history, and it's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u272	President. This financial bill is like another financial bill, and there's a lot of good about it and a lot of other things. It is proper to keep balance between expenses, and earnings may not be as desirable. I'd like to use this opportunity here to make the most of it. Governments and the administrative body in meeting up to better and closer cooperation with the smaller parts of the work and in applying the rules of this work. All of us need to help with our work ethic. The smaller portion will be involved, but this requires that the management do their part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u273	V.E.G. President. This financial bill shows that it is pronounced by two groups that have calmed one another for decades and the third on vacation in this cooperation. There is no political vision, for what can we expect? Most of the bill is an inheritance from a former government, and it is brought to the fore by some government official. Of course, there is no room for greater money to be devoted to health, education, etc. It's got a tail like a shoe in it. You can't support this bill because, as I say, it lacks all ambition, all political vision, and political thinking. The execution of this case in two weeks is characterized by the work practices that people in the country do not want this organization to show. Although everyone did well and did their best, the pay is not the way the people in the country want it to be worked. I hope that next year there will be improvement, and I look forward to having more time next year to do the next bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u274	A respectable president. I just wanted to say the same thing. A senator just told me. What we've done in a short period of time, despite people making every effort to do that, in my mind, it means that there is bound to be some mistake on this bill. We overlooked something, even if a few members of the council find themselves well from one point of view and hold that great speeches, other members of the Parliament do the same, which means that they cannot necessarily confirm their claims to one another. I've found something in this discussion as if people don't even agree on the facts. There is nothing else to expect when there is so little time, when the pressure is so great, and each senator is thinking about what might be the most important thing about the senator or his party. Next time, it's time for work to be better. I know they'll be better, at least if we don't go back to the election in October. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u275	A respectable president. The financial bill that we now vote for shows a tremendous amount of economic strength. We have a very strong tax base at this time. Much has been discussed here in this bill and in recent years. It's all right. It's all right. More important, however, it is that the total cost of the state as a share of land production is not to be increased, they have been further down. We're doing paybacks to turn interest rates into income and investments, and at the same time we're still paying off debts and making money for the future. We're strengthening the infrastructure. We have strong tax institutions and are building up our community. From all sides of sight, this is a strong bill in a strong position. Little wonder, though, that the government does not really know how to handle the situation because you have rarely seen such conflicting political opposition as either the destruction of the matter or the inevitability of the matter because too little is spent, the increase of taxes, or just the decrease of taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u276	A respectable president. This second year, while each is in its own way, we put up a budget under unusual circumstances. I thank everyone for a great job, that I could have done this in the short time. As mentioned earlier, Iceland's situation is very special, it's great. The economic situation of the entire financial and economic sectors makes it possible for us to spit on such important issues as health, education, and transportation. It certainly has to be done better, and in the years to come, we may have a chance to do so. It is surprising that we heard the opposition and the smaller part of a council criticize us for not adding, not putting more 10 to some lawsuits, but, at the same time, others come from the same smaller section, certainly other categories, and criticize us for enormous expenses. At the same time, every category in the smaller section is provided, with proposals to raise the expenses by 3 billion or 4 billion. [[The president calls.]] There's not quite a whole bridge in this, my friends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u277	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance speaks of the opposition to the government. She is like a family, however, you do not choose a family member, but you love all of them. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then the directors either talk about the quality of the bill, the use of money in health, education, and transportation matters, and it's certainly good, and we celebrate it, but let's also talk about what has been forgotten in this budget; it's the actions for poor people, for children, for the elderly, and for desperate people. A good novelist would call this the bill of the forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u278	A respectable president. I just can't sit around because of the criticism we heard from the highest. Secretary of finance because I find it so strange. There are many groups in a position of government. How amazing it would be if five political groups agreed on everything in the budget! Of course, there are different categories and priorities. That's what it says. I think this criticism is too strange. Sometimes I hear criticism that seems unfair to me, but it hurts a little bit. This one just seems weird to me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Just kidding.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u279	Mr. President. This is a small suggestion to try to break into a large hole that arose during the days when President Donald Trump decided to cut down his donations to the United Nations by 258 million dollars. This is a very moderate suggestion to try to match these impairments to the Agency, which will significantly affect their ability to promote world peace in the coming years. I know it's really late, but the problem just got started. There is good reason for us to do something about this and even be responsible among the world's nations in fixing the problem created by a member of our West.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u280	Mr. President. As we have seen, contributions to the United Nations are being made by 100 million. Iceland's contribution to the United Nations by the next year is 0.023% of the United Nations Organization. This is primarily a symbolic operation because the President of the United States has announced a 37% cutoff on donations to the United Nations. It's a serious matter. The United Nations government has issued a declaration for this. This will affect peacekeeping, child support, development support, peace talks, nuclear control, and humanitarian assistance. Here we present the small amount, which is symbolic to show our support. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u281	V.E.G. President. Less than a year ago, I expressed concern that the president of the United States was a fascist, racist, and misogynist. I think he's been going a long way to fulfill my concerns. He has also shown that he is this type, that old man, who cries out at the clouds, unless he also has nuclear weapons to control and vast sums of money that can affect all of us. However, I find it strictly clear that we here at this council can take our stand and say that we show such people that the harmony of other nations can make a big difference when it comes to aggressiveness like that one in the President of the United States who is adding on top of everything else. It's a moderate suggestion. It aims to see that we ride, that we cooperate with other nations, and that we want to work out the building of these most important international organization we possess, the United Nations, who have often maintained peace for us. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-29-12.u282	A respectable president. I am delighted to make significant changes in the budgetary budget of the 250 million high school budget. These funds will be spent to eliminate material expenses at the high school level that depend on the price set by the authorities. This is a human lamotian decision aimed at promoting industrial and national engineering. This operation is in accordance with government policy and it is clear that far fewer graduates of the local trade and to-dos than in our neighboring countries. A respectable president. What a joy it is to see that a parapolitic agreement was formed to settle matters in this way! Finally, I'd like to wish everyone in this room a happy new year and thank you very much for your cooperation.
