ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. Prime Minister of his policy for the government and will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. The Prime Minister has 16 minutes to history, while other members of Congress have nine minutes in the first pass, five minutes in the second round, and four minutes in the third round. The order of the classes is in all of these: the left movement is a green supply, the Convergence, the Central Party, the Independence Party, the Piratars, the forwarding party, the group of people, and the restoration. The speakers for the left movement ▪ green supply will Jakobsdóttir prime minister of the first round, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, Environment and Resource Minister, on the second round, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir Health Spíísvevarsdótir on the third round. The members of the United States will first pass on Logi Einarsson, the 5th. That's the north side. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, 4th including Smoke. n., second round and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, fourth round. We're out of here. "In third round. The members of the Central Party will first pass, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, 3th. That's the north side. "Birgir of Þórarinsson, 3th. South, second round and Anna Kolb Kolbrún Árnadóttir, 8th. That's the north side. "In third round. The members of the Independence Party will be Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, first round, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, 5th. Smoke. n., second round and Friðriksson Frirdurksson, fourth round. South, round three. To Pirata Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., first round, Jón Þór Ólafsson, 8th. We're out of here. "In the second round and Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. n., third. For the advance, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, secretary of transportation and rural development, in the first pass, in the second round of Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddsdóttir, minister of education and culture, and in the third round of Ásmundur Daðason, minister of social and equal rights. For the Gang of the People, the first round of Sæland Goad, the 8th. Smoke. So, second round Ólafur Ísleifsson, 10th. Smoke. n., and third round Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, 12th. We're out of here. The superintendents will be in the first round of the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, 7th. Smoke. n., second and third round Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th Smoke. The path to the program "umount"
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u2	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We have been living in an unusual political age in recent years, and this time of year is unusual to have a discussion about the question of prime minister's policy. And certainly this government is unusual in that they have never worked together before, all three, in the government of the national affairs. It is about a key project that all of us value so important for the people of the country that we believe it is a basis for such wide cooperation. At the same time, the government reflects the results of two recent World Congress elections, which were held at short intervals and did not provide a significantly greater part to the right or left. It has been said that it is easy to judge politicians from their ideals, but more important is the judge who agrees with their compromises. The media is not really good or bad. At times, however, less interests have to be sacrificed for more than the results must be for the welfare of the community in general. The aim of this government is primarily to address the public's appeal that the prosperity of the past few years will bring more to the community, primarily for the building up of health and education systems, as well as the material infrastructure, the one that we all live in this country have together. The Treaty of the Government discusses ways to achieve social, economic, and political stability that ensures a good standard of living to the future for ordinary people. He gives a fine witness to the economic situation as well as to the major issues evident in the building of social and social reconciliation that the nation has called on. The main focus of the government as expressed in a government contract is strong society, vigorous economic, environment, climate, innovation, and research, as well as opportunity, democracy, and transparency as international. However, the subject of this government is not merely the key projects I mentioned here. The task of those who appoint the government, as well as of all other classes in the General Assembly, must be to build trust in politics and the Generals. We've had about a decade since collapse, the economy has improved, but the trust of the public in the General Assembly and the community is still considerably less than a decade ago, and there is a serious situation for democracy in Iceland. There's a lot of responsibility here on the board of directors. It is important not only to change the discussion but also to ensure transparency and trust. Therefore, we will stress the importance of learning from past years' experience and looking to international standards, e.g. The review of the protocols and the rules of interest registration is in order. A good communication between the government and the media is also a key factor in this work, and it is important that we try to establish solidarity in the way we deal with important issues. I'll mention the General Review of the Constitution in the context that has been one of the biggest political debates in the past few years. We must never forget that the word myister means a slave in Latin, but not a gentleman as a domestic tradition is for making us a government ship. However, trust in politics and the Council can never be the sole responsibility of the greater part - we know as far as the longest time has been spent in government opposition at the Council - that is the project of all of us, all members of the International Parliament. Good citizens of the country. The government's going to do better on climate than the Paris Convention assumes and heads for Iceland's nothing of carbon at the latest in the year 2040. It is our primary obligation to take great pride in this of mankind's greatest subjects. The Treaty contains a number of projects and improvements related to the environment and climate and immediate action will be made to appoint climate measures as agreed by the Generalis, which will play a key role in building a road guide for society into a non-carbon future. The climate demands cooperation with everyone; governments, employment, and the public. The key element is to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from all sectors of society but also to use the recovery of ecosystems, including wetlands and forests, to carbon density, and to use technology to support these objectives. The shape of long-term energy policy is another key factor in climate, but it is also linked to nature protection, where it is important to the future's energy efficiency that governments have a vision of how to use the energy we use. A new government highlights a central nation of national governments and the peace descriptions of the areas that have already been placed into a series of reservations. We're on our way to a new era of environmental protection. Amazing changes have benefited people in the past decade, and these changes could clearly be seen in a meeting of national leaders in Paris earlier this week, where it was clearly seen that the nations of the world are setting priorities for climate. My fellow Americans. Kristný then wrote about the cheeky horse that Gunnar ran at Hallgerður: The silence is so quiet that she was entombing anything that followed. The ones who tried to break it Found the cheek A fire of shame. The clouding of women's community centers for the last year's hooves a centuries of silence. There we are not near the end of the world. The long - term task is to change accepted opinions that have sustained the inferior status of women for centuries. One terms will only be a brief step on that journey. And it is appropriate to remember that today is the birth date Ingibjörg Inafjörg H. Bjarnason, the first woman elected at Parliament, in 1922, and the statue of it here outside reminds us of the importance of this struggle and how long it has taken, to reach the equal rights of the sexes. The acute project on these issues will be an improvement in the treatment of sexual fractures, which will be strengthened through the justice system, and the legal environment of sexual abuse will also be cleared with the aim of strengthening the level of the defendants. Education and prevention will be emphasized, and conditions will be improved to support national violations throughout the medical system. Of course, equality is about much more. The Treaty of the Government stresses equal opportunities - Iceland being the land of opportunity for everyone, and it calls for many measures to combat the pay of sex, to improve the affairs of queer people, to ensure community involvement, and to ensure that economics, euphemism, age, or disability do not prevent people from taking advantage of the opportunities that an Icelandic community has to offer. More important, equality is about equal opportunities for different classes. There will be no avoiding a reexamination of society. Many have noted that there is a long line between those who put the government in that regard, especially when it comes to equalizing the role of the tax system. The tax changes proposed at the beginning of the ideal period aims to make the tax system more righteous regardless of the origin of the income. The focus of this government is to build social infrastructure serves as the goal of equalizing the situation of the people living here. At that time, the government will also take the interests of the most successful groups in life, inspect their positions, and work to improve their situation, especially those of poverty - related children. Poverty is simply not supposed to exist in the richest community we have here together. The core of a strong community is social infrastructure: health services, welfare services, law - enforcement and shelters that provide security, education, science, culture, creative articles and sports that enrich our spirit and build us up as society and transportation, communications and settlements that strengthen the support of land - wide and flourishing communities. In all these areas the government will strive to bring in a better place than it did. The health of the nation is natural. It is natural for the Icelandic health system to meet the best that happens in the world. All the people of the country will enjoy good service, regardless of their economic situation and habitat, and the government will focus on reducing the patient's expenses, improving their mental - health care, and prevention, and building up space. Today's budget bill puts special emphasis on health matters, but it will then be presented in the financial program that will be submitted to the council at the end of March of the following year. In education, there will be a big attack. The university budget will reach an average of the OECD countries in 2020 and must be targeted at an average of 2025. Industrial, to-do and occupational studies will be extended and the work of the high school will be reinforced to the level of what they were promised in the financial program of the last government. A grammatical program will be funded, which is an enormously important case in order for Icelandic to become eligible in a digital world. We are in the race for time, and technological progress has been more rapid. Economic strength must always be compatible with social stability, prosperity, and quality of life. Thus, responsible economic management is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable society in which economic, social, and environmental balance is in place, and if we consider history, this balance has often been hard to find in this country. Although the people in the country in recent years have enjoyed greater financial resources, strong gangs, and low inflation, the exporting companies feel less competitive because of pay costs and success development. It is therefore important in the long run to trust the foundations of the budget, including in the establishment of a national fund on profit from energy resources. For the future, more resources may be added to that fund. The high economy is based on a wide range of economic activities focusing on increased knowledge and value development and sustainable development. The foundation needs to be solid; sustainable sea transport and tourism, environmental agriculture, security and healthy financial systems, and a powerful research and innovation work. A vast economy is necessary for society to prepare for its challenges and to take advantage of opportunities for ever greater technological change than in the future, prosperity in Iceland will be based on intelligence, creation, and knowledge. I have in my first few days as Prime Minister the leaders of a total workforce, but successful cooperation by the government and the labour market is essential to building social and economic stability here. The future of the collective agreements will be a great deal of control over the economic development of the coming year and years, with the government focusing on achieving economic stability but as well as the importance of trusting the social support and working with as many as responsible employment markets where improvement is needed to ensure and protect and promote the rights of wage workers in this country, the rights of working people in this country. It is important to revise public housing and provide lines of vision so that it is fully useful, especially for young people and the low income. As it is planned to extend or extend your birthports and pay, it is considered to lower the tax level of the income tax system on the upcoming labour contracts to improve the country's terms. I emphasize that in cooperation with the pan-European donor, the work will be quick to revise the part of the social security system that allows them to maintain a manly rate and encourage the development of micro-employment into society. In the following year, this is one of the key requirements of the elderly for elections that will reduce the costs of the elderly and the disability donor during dental work immediately next year, which is a matter that has been long delayed and will be called to this hall. Worldwide, there is a flash of light. It was sad during the days to see the president of the United States declare that the United States now counted Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. It will make it even more difficult to establish peace in this area. The Icelandic government will continue to speak for peaceful solutions to the issues of Palestine and Israel, and we agree with our neighbors. We Icelanders and I are to do what we can to benefit internationally as an unwary nation, and those speaking the languages of peaceful solutions. The government intends to do better in international development and the hosting of refugees, both of whom are relevant in the larger context in order to promote a peaceful world. My fellow Americans. I've been focusing on what I believe here tonight, as well as the government, that we can do better in our society, but at the same time, there's so many things going our way. To the international community, we are in many respects a exemplary society, and we are to rejoice in its success. The country's mind will be in Russia the next summer, when the Icelandic male soccer team will be fighting other best teams of the world. Never has a smaller nation ever been a part of an HM male soccer program. Who knows, unless the female population succeeds in the same way on HM, France, 2019? And who would have expected that ten years ago? If there's something I've learned personally in the decade I've been sitting in the World Congress, it's not that you don't know what's going to happen next. This is true not only of the working days here at a body meeting but also of the general community development. Often, we Icelanders have been struck by unexpected and heavy loads, but we have always earned them. But I do know that if the vision for the future is clear, if everyone turns down, there's more potential than a better chance of success. I give hope that at the end of this election season, all of us here with our actions have gained confidence in society's institutions, especially the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Our main concern is that we will be better able to work together to make a success of the population. We Icelanders and I will celebrate 100 years of sovereignty next year and the marvelous progress the Icelanders have achieved in just a century. It is amazing to study the history of the sovereignty when it is thought that it has lasted no longer than one lifetime. One of our country's people who have lived the entire period of national sovereignty, Stefán Þorleifsson, 101 years old, is the one who was the first one driving through the North Sea when they were recently dedicated. On that occasion, Stefán even said: "Look!Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: To think about the future, that's what everyone should do. It is each human's duty to try to understand society in such a way that it is good for those who accept it. Keep those words in mind, now that we start our work in a new season. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u3	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. I sincerely wish a new government to be happy and successful, and I rejoice that now a woman sits on the throne for the second time. Hopefully, that does not refer to future events. There are some good promises in a new government contract, ambitious climate goals, prolong birthworm, and transport campaigns to name something. In this way, additional health and education contributions are offered, although there is a great concern to be added to business without making permanent donations. Finally, it is noted that the smaller parts do not strengthen the Council and achieve a better solidarity. However, the first steps taken by the government suggest little more than that, since these groups are in control, they are now about to fall into love. All the wishes of the object were rejected, but with the consent turned to cross political committees, including in the Constitution, and in the matter of foreigners. There is no need for a special projection to realize that this arrangement primarily sheds light on the unsolved conflict between the governments. V.E.G. During this talk, prime minister tries to justify government cooperation and speaks of unusual circumstances, broad cooperation, the value of the media, and the importance of building trust. What has in particular understood that these three categories are their attitude toward the tax system and that of the equation. The Treaty involves the compromise that the left greens firmly lean toward the independent tax issue. It is primarily a matter of giving a discount in the battle against inequities. The width of the cohesion is greatly increased. They are fully integrated in the preservation of special interests and restorations in matters requiring reform: the lost currency, the high growth, the water supply injustice, agriculture monopolis, and the out - of - date constitution. Their attitude toward common resources is so crowned in the Government Convention, with the permission of a president: ▪ As fish fire grows, the future budget for the release of the legislature must be discussed. In other words, limited resources are to continue. Trust as the highest. The prime minister became so frequent in his discourse that he almost found himself in a fight against the corruption, secret thinking, and nepotism that led to the downfall of two last governments. It's supposed to be left green by leading the lead players out of two last tragedies to the stage again, more or less to the same roles. It is not credible, Mr. President, to hide the current financial minister reorganize the banks and have him financed by government companies. Ironically, he leads to a fight against tax fraud and avoidance. Then it is disappointing that a minister of justice, who put his party above the general public in a recent case of abuse, should be restored to power. How sad it is to trust her with refugees! No, Mr. President, this cooperation will not restore trust in Icelandic politics, but it is likely to meet the highest level. A prime minister on his head when she said that this was a fairly unusual approach. My fellow Americans. Women's close cooperation with each other makes it clear that there is a need for mental revolution in the community. He draws a clear, unpleasant picture of a millennium of male culture that stands in the way of equality for the sexes. Of course, it is necessary to engage in a major offense against sexual violence, as well as a systematic degradation, discrimination, and rudeness against women who poison all day long life, even without men's realizing it. And as important as it is for women to break the glass roofs of the Generals and other institutions of power, let us not forget that many of the most difficult and most important jobs of the community, which are almost entirely employed by women, are low - paying jobs. I'm picking up fish farms and cleaning women, shrinks and teachers. Sadly, this is no coincidence, but it is a man - made values and a highly clear form of gender discrimination and inequities in society. During this unprecedented cycle of economic growth, the struggle for equality for the sex and for any discrepancy should be a major factor in politics. V.E.G. The prime minister may quote French economist Thomas Piketty. He said, with President's permission: ▪ The only way to spread waste is to lower taxes on large groups and to raise those most likely to fail to achieve the highest levels of mismatch. These words go hand in hand with the log of the left green, not with the constitution or with the financial bill. Enforcement and public service are essential. However, this calls for lasting income, not just beating on the cracks and using leftovers and money that are as luxuriant as the Icelandic weather. At the top of the economy, it's the best time to make more money and get even. In addition, it is wise to delay and soften the next down cycle, to reduce growth, and to hold back inflation. On the other hand, the government is going to sit on the couch, eat from the refrigerator, and do not care to go out and find a farm. She may feel that there is enough, but she leaves the consequences for the next government. An increase in tax pay will be little or nothing due to a new formula. Lowering the tax on the lower level of income tax, which gives them the highest income three times as much in the pocket as others on the minimum wage, people who, by no means can make ends meet. There will be billions of dollars in income that could be used to combat inequities and poverty. Perhaps, though, the most difficult way in which the government's priorities are made is by permission of a president, comparing two sentences from the government covenant: ▪ One of government's first projects must deal with the problems of short and long - term sheep farmers. And only later: The decision to evaluate and follow the optimal revenues in the Icelandic community will be taken into account. Special attention should be given to the status of poor children... V.E.G. Government. For the benefit of poor children, immediate action can be made. However, it may be well taken at the same time. We know exactly where the shoe squeezes, and we know well how to loosen it. Children and growth improvements need to be increased as well as the elderly's basic life span and disability. This is mentioned in the Treaty, and there is no increase in funds. The same is true of immigrants and refugees. Above all, housing needs to be done on a large scale. Sadly, the government's coverage is more likely to narrow down the potential of loans for young people. Mr. President. The gap between the poor and the rich will continue to increase under the seat of socialists. At some point, that would have been news. My fellow Americans. V.E.G. The prime minister says that in the eyes of the international community, we are a exemplary society in many respects and that we are to rejoice in its success. That is true, and although it is undoubtedly true that an average of fairly good is seen every day in Iceland as distasteful as it is. An elderly couple sitting in front of a fire in a expensive villa and writing Christmas cards while an old woman is in a basement and wondering if she can afford to pay an electrical bill or go to a doctor. While another spends his 50th birthday in a drive in Saturday, hoping that the night will not be cold, the middle - aged call will pick up apartments to rent into a lucrative market. By the end of the day, when a small boy can't get the best medicine because he needs tens of billions of dollars in the drinking. A young family with children sitting on a jet on their way to Germany for Christmas. Let's get a pretty young man, a sick pregnant woman, and their little baby on the road out of safety to the unknown because Iceland cannot provide them with shelter. And a little boy goes to sleep at a Simon's Eve with a laugh. He's convinced that Kertasníkir will be generous in the morning, and then he's hoping for a playmate for Christmas. His classmates crawl into their beds at the same time, know that he gets nothing on his shoes, and sleeps with feelings of anxiety about Christmas. My fellow Americans. We can do much better than this. - Good break.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u4	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. There is reason to first congratulate the newly appointed Prime Minister on his office. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is the first socialist to lead a government in Iceland, and to achieve that historic status, she had to do a considerable feat. She managed to bend the backland of her own party, while 3% of the voters of the left green wanted to go to the government with the Independence Party, and at the same time the entire independent party puts them on its feet. That is certainly not a small achievement. There is no need to commend the minister in particular for reaching the third party, for he had, as the minister had advertised himself on a fire sale since the last election. On that occasion, the new prime minister mentioned a number of things that each prime minister has done for many years, likely decades. The minister spoke of the importance of improving health care, increasing education and innovation, and eliminating poverty, quoting poetry and celebrating sports performances. There were things that almost everyone can agree on, and I have no doubt that the will is there for the new prime minister - like the predecessors. The question, though, is, How will this result? Iceland is in a better position than nearly all other countries of the world, almost no matter what criteria you consider. That situation did not come about by itself. And now we want to do better than that will not happen on its own. A lot of talk about how things should be returned little by themselves. What matters is what humans do. And what will this government do? The prime minister gave us little insight into this. Let us consider, though, the clues that are already faced. We've been given a government that speaks a lot about how it's going to issue quality, how much money was created by the huge operations of the past few years, but at the same time, the government is going to allow complete failure in the procedures that yielded the result, allow them to turn into its opposite side. The left government handed over the bank's hedge funds. The government, in turn, restored them, but now the problem will be reversed. As we observe after the surrender of the big victories, which brought back the economic losses that are now to be used, we see the government piling the community into system again since the last century. A magnificent mistake in the construction of a land hospital shall be finished. I guess the system has spent so much time preparing the mistake that it will just have to finish it. When, and if, the new hospital construction at the Ring Road is being initiated, house - to - house work will begin based on a 30-year-old need analysis. The hospital will then have more homes and houses built over a period of time than the houses of the Aarhus. It's not the government of big decisions, and it's not a reformer control. It's a system control. Justice is to call it a stable government that does not want to deal with big political issues. She's going to distribute money into the current system and then leave the system to control. The groups that lost the election formed an alliance based on the division of the Ministers' chairs and continued systems, in fact, the left green system. Where in the Treaty can you find the candidate or the independent emphasis they can be proud of? Then I'm not talking about all this general talk that everyone can agree on, better health care, more innovation and everything else, everything in every government deal and all policy. No, that's not the question. The question is, Where in the Treaty can independents point to a point and say: Our ideals, what we have to offer, the vision we have, in contrast with others, are we able to discern the best way to succeed? There are not many such factors. The media seems to have received nothing, not one of their big elections, except that it is called, as in shame, that in the Ministry of finance, there will continue to be a progressive step toward decommissioning insurance. We who have been watching that work until that time - which is actually quite good. The members, the proselytists, and the forward class, who did not bring many in the government covenant justify their position in the government by doing this in order to establish political stability. These men, of all men, now think it is best to ensure political stability. These are the men who sat in the government with 13 major members, a government that had produced the highest and fastest economic reversal seen, a government that was working on the nation's enormous interest issues when they surrendered. They gave up and announced an election at the end of October with unfinished budgets, in fact, all incomplete, whatever they had planned, or should have finished. Yet, they had accepted that the prime minister would step aside so that peace would be provided to complete the work that had to be completed. After they were asked to look after the issues that had to be done, the end of the summer had begun. When a convention was met, the government led the government and finally decided to close the shop, send everyone home, and give an election, an election that gave the government crisis. These are the men who now volunteer for political stability. However, there is little chance that the government that has been adopted today will follow the same procedure as they associates, stand back, let the government rule, and wait for elections. Let us reflect on whom they gave up. They gave up on exactly the same left greens they now lie down in government service. Of course, left, they sensed their strong position, and they are going to take advantage of it. The political treaty gives clear evidence, but so does the financial bill. Much of the bill is interesting, and we will discuss it tomorrow, but one thing must be mentioned now, since it has to do with the prime minister and the direction he preaches. The budget bill expects to increase contributions to the Ministry of Presidency by 50% between the years. I've never seen such an increase in any department. This is, of course, much more than was expected in the budget bill presented in September. Much of the increase is new 105 million. K. a contribution to the Ministry of Presidency to monitor the government's advisors, coordinate actions, and ensure that they follow the right course. For this amount, the prime minister may hire ten people to monitor the stewards, one officer for each minister. 105 million a year to ensure that the direction of the left green will be carried out. They may find this to be just fine with the others. Are they really so different, these categories, i.e. When it comes to big things? Don't they just take care of the same system solutions? Had the current control, e.g. did big things differ from those of the left government? I'm not sure. In the near future, we will no doubt hear a continuing flood of propaganda justifying the existence of this government. But politics is not merely to say things that sound good and leave out the governance of society. Governments are to be controlled, afraid to make decisions, work out, take the consequences, and do all this as a representative of voters, not as owner of the left partner or owner of the right partner. Just sitting still is not enough to keep the boat from rocking. It also needs to calm down. Decisions need to be made. All this funds that can now be used to trust the infrastructure could not be used to discuss the importance of confidence in the infrastructure. This was made up of big decisions, controversial decisions, and carrying out them. No community has been built up by the empty fables of politicians. However, they are often a cognizant of poor decisions or lack of determination. Hopefully, the new government will have the courage to make major decisions that will prove to be well with society, and hopefully it will take guidance and guidance on how to do things better. To that I wish a new government success.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u5	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. A new assembly and a new election season are in a way like the political annual convention. This is a new beginning, a new face at the council, and this time also new categories. There is reason to congratulate new categories with the results they have achieved here in recent elections, even though there is no opportunity here to trace the entire history explanation from the previous speaker, who was now quite affordable. Many of the things I heard there about the leading of a choice here in 2016, I am hearing for the first time. In recent elections, all of us had expectations, hopes that things would be possibly different in the future, that the cooperation here at the council could possibly be better and more successful for the people. The votes are over. It's hard to say that the end of the election was completely clear. Most agreed that after the boxes had been listed, there was no default regarding the rest, no obvious option. Hence, it would be concluded that in order to form a strong government, they would need divisions that would come to the government, in whatever way it would be, to contribute, to sacrifice something to form such a government for the land. This new government cohesion has set the lines of a government covenant that highlights the urgent tasks we can meet together to meet and meet with matters that must be followed with a broad solid solidarity. Someone would even call that a radical sense of reason. The government covenant also provides clear direction that this government wants to trust in the future social stability, prosperity, and quality of life. Our goal is to share with everyone in the present economic growth. That everyone enjoys the economic success that has been achieved and lies ahead. It's the very essence of our budget bill for 2018 that was submitted today. I'm not going to go to the end of the first discussion on that subject tomorrow on the council program. However, I would like to mention that in this first financial bill of the government, the issues of health, education, and the field of transportation are clearly expressed, to name just a few. I'd also like to reflect on the big film of the state's budget, maybe not the millions and millions of different topic areas, but more almost on the real. Why is making decisions regarding the provision of money and the setting of priorities in government matters special? Why do we do what we do at a council? And why are we in politics? I am sure that many in this hall have often had that question, and no doubt many have covered it with themselves when they made room for political involvement, why they wanted to do it, why they wanted to pursue politics. Even if the question cannot be answered in the same way for all who take sides in politics, it unites us, I believe, to want to do good things for us. I believe we all want to do some good work for this country. In order for this to happen, there must be a willingness to seek solutions, to find ways to make the most of what they can do. The answer may be part of it. Among the things that make the work at the General Assembly is the method we have to reach, in order to draw conclusions on specific matters. The talk here, not only between those who have chosen to participate in the council, but also with the community by consultation. I suppose it's safe to say, in spite of most people, if not all the senators who have served here at the council, that we always feel that the changes we want to make are too slow. After all, it may not really matter how fast the changes take place, but whether we are meant to be a society ahead of us. I think the bad news is the best thing to do. When you look back, there can be no doubt about it in the past decade or so endless speeches, where it claims to be all wrong and we don't make any progress. Despite all such talks, however, the situation today is that we are living in the longest economic growth in later times, which is a better economic balance than has been true for decades. Inflation is low, unemployment is low, and domestic wealth has never been greater. In other words, we are able to strengthen the infrastructure. So we continue to do so vigorously in the budgetary bill being presented today. After as unusual years as we have lived in the past decade, or so balance, calm, and peace become even more desirable. In a decade we've been through what we thought was the greatest goody republical season and then one of the deepest depressions immediately. And now it looks like we're sitting on the top of the current economy. We'll have soft landings after the big growth in the years to come. So over the years, we have had much to do with it. Though it takes strong bones to cope with adversity and hardship, we also try to be wise, prospective, to take advantage of the periods that build up. Move forward and move forward. It doesn't happen by itself. But we need to reacquire tickets, so there is a strong contingency of the Declaration of Policy. What a joy it has been to find support from people from the innovation sector to what is said in the Treaty! Being able to deal with what you want is part of enjoying prosperity. Building a competitive diversity and exciting working life in Iceland is an important factor in holding on to powerful workers and attracting people who can become an injection of companies. What stands out in the current state's budget is a very good thing when you look at basics and incomes, but there is a heavy burden of interest that reduces your ability to return money to build up society. But we're on the right track. The rate of debt declines rapidly and the economic success that has been achieved in the past few years is beginning to result in much better rates of credit. We can see that, for example. Just the week before, where we were offering the best loans in foreign markets that we've ever had. Looks are generally good. The number of tourists will increase substantially next year, projections will follow. The condition of fish stocks is the best we've seen in the last 20 years, and business around the world is well balanced. That is the situation that a new council has to work with in order to be successful. Sometimes it is said that no business would do things like the State. Certainly, the State could learn much from well - trained companies. But we're not running a business. We're tending to a community. A community of people with much in common but with different needs, desires, and expectations. It is our job to meet the expectations we can best. To give everyone equal opportunities and equal access to the quality that society has to offer. The decisions made by the government and the suggestions we make for the Council are the means of well - being and quality of life. One dictionary defines prosperity as happiness, well - being, success, and success. We want all of this and more from the Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u6	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. V.E.G. Just before, the prime minister said in his speech, with the permission of a president: ▪ Poor people are simply not meant to be in the same rich society as we live here together. I couldn't agree with that. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has spoken similarly and intends to eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland. I suppose it doesn't have to be stressed to anyone in this room how important it is for all of us to secure the interests of children and to make sure that they have the opportunity to thrive on which they have an exception and implicit right. But it is important to keep in mind that the poverty of children is a direct result of poverty on the part of parents. This is the inevitable fact of the matter, for it is one thing. It is disturbing that people do not have access to wholesome, nutritious food to satisfy their hunger, to cover their heads and clothes that are more appropriate and fit for the season. Many take these things for granted, but for so many, it's a luxury. Prime Minister is correct. We're a rich people. This should not be tolerated. That, my senators, is our responsibility. Prime Minister also spoke of compromises that include sacrificing less interests for more. These more interests seem to be for them to spread more wealth or prosperity to the common people. But I suspect it's more about protecting the same situation. Or securing this stability that is always being talked about. All right. What, though, were the less important interests that had to be sacrificed? Was it perhaps the Constitution - where it is intended to create a solidarity in the process? Were they public resources? That the nation could demand a vote? Separation of the European Commission and the legislature? Free media? That the nation is free of special interests and corruption? My fellow Americans. I am concerned that by leading a group to power that has been repeatedly opposed to democratic reforms and has been replaced by the misuse of power, the left movement has underestimated what is going to be a society as a whole for the long term and will completely miss when it comes to building trust in politics and the World Council and strengthening democracy in Iceland. A key element of the granting of democracy is to ensure legal environment, enabling the media to communicate information that is considered important in political context and to be relevant to the public. This means that when it comes to information that is mismanageable to a political party 15 minutes before election, there is no way to put a restraining order on the media. Rather, confidence in politics and the General is involved in improved work practices and democratic processes that ensure the access of the public at all, not just of special interest, of policies, legal contracts, and decision making. No one, in the power of capital or cousinism, should promote his interests above the interests of the common people. The arrival of the public in decision making is of utmost importance, since it has the consequences of distributing power and responsibility. By the authority of the public, we withdraw from corruption and authority at the same time, to find the courage to move forward the needed changes in order to meet the future with a plan that serves the entire community and thus the development of society. This is more of the interests. Especially in view of the grand changes we face, not just Icelanders, but all mankind. If we're going to survive, we're going to have to evolve. You see, it is time to get the courage and face certain basic questions about the benefits of the systems we have tailored to, whether they are really serving the whole thing, and to start dealing with the root of the problems rather than having patches of ingrowing and system damage. The most important is to start with an economic system based on ideologies of linear, infinite economy on a planet that does not have infinite resources to control. We live in a time where there is a danger that many of the conditions that this planet that delivers us and gives us birth remain beautiful, generous, and capable of bearing human life, the dangers that modern technology is most likely unable to repair, even though it was emphasized by a high degree of emphasis. In spite of this, our measure of success, success, and well - being, is still GDP, the quantity of goods and services that we make, regardless of what we really need. Thus we let our economic system work directly against the systems on which we base our right to exist. This is the danger we face. This is the big movie. As soon as I'm glad that a new government has the goal of ensuring a good standard of living for the future for ordinary people, I weep for the sacrifice of democracy. Because rarely has a government needed as much help in helping the public to give them the courage, the ability, and the willingness to take root of the huge problems we face in order to really achieve good living conditions for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u7	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We are living in a time of political instability, but in the past ten years, it has been chosen five times to the Council. The present government co-operation of the three major councils at the General Assembly is based on a common view of different categories that have the goal of working on specific key projects that arise in Iceland. This country's competitiveness will have to be enhanced in order for our young people to choose Iceland because living and working is good here. To accomplish this, society's infrastructure needs to be strong all over the country. At the same time, the government's purpose is to ensure that the elderly are truly free from a lifetime of care. Unusual conditions in society require change in practices, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. With the welfare of the common people, we politicians need to approach matters objectively. The knowledge and experience of all classes must come in here, and in the greater part we hope to cooperate well with the smaller parts that also have somewhat broad appeals, and the groups there are different. We politicians must not forget that we represent the people in the country and are to pursue a good partnership between us. It's on the responsibility of all of us. Common values, such as responsibilities, vision, and service, can strengthen our support here at the General Assembly to achieve the best results for the country and the nation. A good conclusion in the conversation of more groups is long - term and is at the same time a source of greater peace in the community. To make peace, it is often better to pick a hook along the way if there is much difference between views. In such cases, we need to be a little slower than most, but we agree on our goals, even though we are aware of the routes. Good citizens of the country. Large, long - term activities are ahead of us, and we need to maintain stability at the same time. The economic stability and financial growth that have been achieved without the loss of inflation are valuables that we must guarantee. For one thing, we, the heads of the governments, had a conversation with the workers of the workforce at the administrative hearing about how we could approach the project together. Long-term plans and consultations increase awareness. At times, we Icelanders have heard that our decisions are being made in the park. We have not always had a successful guide, and as a nation, we need to make long - term decisions. The future challenges directly require that we work for the sake of the economy and consider our long - term goals. We need to ask ourselves, " How do we want to see our country evolve for the next 203/4:30 years, what will happen in the next 10◯20 years, how we will promote our competitiveness and what we will have to do in the near future to support our plans? ' This thought is especially true in the major projects ahead of us where it is certain that all the people of the country will have the same conditions for public service, have equal opportunities for employment development, and that there will be a wide variety of jobs in place. Our basic plants, tourism, fishing routes, energy, agriculture, and creative branches of intelligent design all depend on the design here that contribute to healthy future growth. In order to promote further value development, the country needs to be in flourishing settlements, and regional policies need to be integrated as most of the problems. Job life and close society need to be able to deal with external changes, and in areas with scattered habitats, employment needs to be a source of value. We need to look to the local community as a country where we live, including the local community. by strengthening the student loan system and making the best use of regional knowledge. The transport and distribution systems of electricity need to meet the needs of industry and the public, but across the country, energy exchange needs to take into account our climate targets as best chosen. A fibre optic link to all the population of the country, which will be completed within three years, will include: Have us in the front row of information and technology for the next few years. At the same time, it is a system that is most important to all family members, at all ages, who are also to have access to the same basic services regardless of their location. A service card will add perspective and provide a basis for needed action. Good citizens of the country. There's still room in the coming years, including that. Because of the good supply of the State, but also for the use of government property on such projects and for securing the solid structures that are essential for varied and vigorous employment. However, this cannot be avoided in order to maintain stability for years to come, then big projects must be prioritised. Then it is important that we reach a common conclusion over the course of time, but not just for the next four years. In transport, which is one of the most important investments we are facing, there are priorities for different localities, tourism, and safety issues. In order to create a larger work area than to ensure safe transport to the outside world, the priority of priorities must also be taken into account for the practical and based policy-makers, connected and communities. Transport and communication play an important role in the construction and opportunities of the country. Transports need to be supportive of each other, consisting of safe road systems, ports, airports, and Internet security. This will increase the need for improved public transport in densely populated areas. Decisions need to be determined by an increase in the number of tourists and how we can best serve the local population in reaching territory. Inland flights need to be a more important part of public transportation, which we need to better connect with all parts of the country. The systems need to blend into one body so we can all get as much service as we can. Cooperation with rural society needs to be good. It is a key factor in developing closer to society, the well - being of its population, and the human life of all society. They need to grow stronger in order to carry out their assignments that may include them. contributes to the more productive, productive, and productive ministry. Yes, there are many steps, and some will take longer than others. The important thing is that these are tasks that are important to the welfare of the great nation. This will help if we all agree on where we are going. The structure must be built but not increased in individual areas. It is possible, and then we will succeed indefinitely. Can we all agree on that? - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u8	President. V.E.G. Prime Minister. Government. The whole world. My dear Icelanders. I choose to address everyone here tonight because this is the first time I have the privilege of standing in the most powerful and most respected public speaker of the country - and that is on your invitation, my fellow Americans. First, I'd like to congratulate the new government. There are many good things that appear in a new government covenant, and I certainly do not intend to stand here and begin by being negative and by no means boring. But that does not change the fact that there is really too little, I think, in the government covenant, which at the same time marks the highest policy debate. Prime Minister, who has the hand of a hanged man. It is truly brilliant that there is an attempt to achieve an OECD average before 2020 in terms of our educated people. We will also have high goals and try to reach an average of the northern countries by 2025. That's good. As I say, there are many things that are well meant in this treaty. The equation is spoken of, equal to the opportunity and equal opportunity for everyone. I want to stick to what led to the existence of a group of people, and the party of the people is now here. It is and has been for decades, and it seems to be a continuation, that this equal opportunity will be for some people only, unfortunately. I'm here with the budget bill. I'm not an expert at reading financial products, and I can tell you that it's just not too easy to scratch through it. But we got today, so I run from one to the next, nice call to the council. There, representatives of the desperate new president with his supporters came and brought us a gift. She gave the gift to the desperate for the year, which is, "It is called a cutting. " This is the game this year, the game of Christmas that cripples play, the game that no one wants because there is no money in this game. This card speaks of the permafrost of disaster, as it says. Usually we want to try our luck. What I'm stressing is that this fine financial bill, fine for some people, underscores exactly what I fear, and why I stand here and now: there is little or nothing to do in microbubbles. We -- I'm not going to talk about me because this is where the superloin stands, and that's what you are, my fellow Americans. I really hope and believe that the trust you have put in us in the little mob of the people will be worth it and that you will never have to regret your votes. We do not come to have traditional actions at the council halls. We are here to follow our ideals, to fight for what we were chosen to do, but we also would like to see all the fine people here, the 63 people, who are part of the eight tribes, that we are in a town and ready to meet in the middle wherever we are to eliminate poverty precisely. It is a national disaster in our prosperous, prosperous land that there is poorness in this country, that many people live in wheelhouses and tents down the valley of Saturday. In fact, they lost their electricity the other day. One president, who caused them to have no electricity in their RVs at a temperature of ten degrees Fahrenheit [10 ° C]. I'm sorry, I'm all drying up here in the pont. I'm gonna go get a drink of water. We see, and we talk about meeting the demands of senior citizens to raise the pay markets. It's true. They had come a little to meet them, toward almost getting the holiday goal where it was when it was cut down, almost to what it was then, 100 yous. K. ... nowaboutyear-oldtime. I have received a report that has been prepared for older citizens, very carefully and a good report. It's full of facts and calculations that I'm happy to provide here which show and prove that what we were preaching in the campaign is just this: it's a public health matter, with the exception of a total decrease in the pay of older citizens and desperate people. They're talking about the equation, they're talking about equal opportunities and prosperity. Why in the world would we not be able to work if possible, to try to save ourselves if possible? Especially when the ones who calculate it to a beard. The Generals look mainly at the Excel document which should be negative and have a set cost for state funds? But who calculates what would return in the form of taxes; income taxes, indirect taxes, consumer taxes in all directions when we could have more between our hands? I'd like to tell you, my fellow Americans, that last night -- there's nothing fun to tell about it in a torturete on this night that I've had a toothache, but I see now on and uplifting the money to the teeth of an old citizen's health and disability. Actually, it's kind of funny because we have a legal obligation to obtain 75% dental expenses. I don't know why in the world I only got 16%, I should've gotten 0% because I'm an invalid on the sharks today. But I met an old couple who were going to the elevator when I was going home. They congratulated me and said they chose us. I thanked them and simply pointed out that without the help I have received and the possibility of standing here, I could not have gone to the dentist. I couldn't go to him for nine years. Is that acceptable? Is it acceptable that our old people lie down anxiously on the pillow at night? Is it acceptable that our children can't have merry Christmas? You can't buy Christmas steaks on the table simply because your parents don't make ends meet. When we're talking about the 9.1% of children who suffer from a degree of lack, it was in January 2016, according to a report by UNICEF in Iceland. It's just got bigger. Let us see that in good school this has only increased. But there are other factors. Now I am almost in an open discourse in the state of Generals, and I hope that I will learn. It's just the first speech. I'm certainly hoping, Mr. President, that I will learn and maybe learn better and stop being an offer forever. But since we made the decision that we were going to be in politics, are we not always in a campaign? I would like to see just one category of all the people of the country who are working underground and aware that they will eliminate poverty and stop taxing it so that we could all enjoy our beautiful country living here with dignity. Since I would like to finish the talk on the positive note, I would like to say that it is still a fact that in a new financial bill, there is a significant increase in the amount of money being made to health care. It's being added to the infrastructure. What I like to call is that my priorities aren't right. I want to start with the kids. I want to start with the poor people. I want everyone to be able to enjoy what is being done well here on increased medical and educational donations. I just say: The only thing we can do right now is really hope that all the good people who have chosen to do the work, decided to work for our prosperity, and take to lead this government really ill what it says, that it will totally from the heart to put everything in order to fulfill what it says in this beautiful covenant, that it is not just talking about the assessment of poverty because it is on page. 29 In this 38 - page covenant, poverty occurs once. It's over and done with equal opportunities, such little ones in the covenant. I still want us to be optimistic and smiling. It doesn't always mean looking into the air. Let us be optimistic and smiling, giving a good government an opportunity to show itself and prove itself true and to stand at the big words. It is only by smiling and trying to be optimistic, which we can look forward to tomorrow despite the plight of many. My fellow Americans. Smile at one another. Let's see if we can welcome Christmas. Be kind to one another. Merry Christmas and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u9	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. History does repeat itself. Thirty-five years ago, Vilmundur Gylfason gave a memorable speech in a discussion of distrust in the Government of Gunnar Thoroddsens, who, including the permission of the president, said: A government of peace is at present. It represents the historical reconciliations that the Morning newspaper proclaimed in its day. There is a common alliance, a forwarding party and an independent party [...] But the peace of the present world's highest level. Government is peace with nothing. This is the peace of the narrow and closed sect, of peace in defense of power and interests. This was, of course, then - but these words of the late Vilmundur have a remarkable parallel today. Vilmundur Gylfason had strong opinions during his time. He actively advocated freedom and equality and spoke to classical moral ideas. He considered modest business ventures to benefit the masses, and he objected that the state was pushing too much of each individual's freedom. He also argued that the use of the terms simply baloney and strudeled in political debates was out - of - date and did not serve the future. It was 1982. But the red thread through it presented itself; distribution of power and opposition to power in few hands. I can see that my husband and a number of other Icelanders followed Vilmundur. My fellow Americans. I could review the ideas, speeches and the writings of Vilmundur Gylfason all night, but there's a better time. It is important, however, that we not forget the types, those who have dared and who have simply dared to speak against power, against special interests, the old party system, and the extent of Icelandic politics, which many feel is out of date and is certainly critical. Vilmundur was one of them. He was precious, important, and true. Yes, history tends to repeat itself. And now, 35 years after Vilmundur's speech, many people mean that history has again come to terms with the opposites of politics. Independence party and forwarding party are in the government together. This story is neither unusual nor new, but this story continues to be available to the left green, since it is not free of the fact that a certain apology was struck at the top of a policy debate. Prime Minister. It is true that political landscapes are strange these days. It is understandable that changing emphasis in politics is called upon, a requirement for groups to function across line lines. As all of us are getting rather tired of this, perhaps that makes it easier to sell the idea of the deep - seated categories, which, in fact, can be so tragically predictable. Everything is now to be done for everyone, and no boat must be rocking at all, especially if it calls for improvement or system changes - much less a system change for the best friend. Yet, despite the benefits of political tranquillity and peace at a council, let us keep our eyes open and not let our guard down. We must not forget why we are standing here today, why we now welcome a second time in less than a year. We cannot overlook that reason or place the pot lid on other issues that the government groups find difficult to resolve between. And let's remember why we all step over our heads out into politics. Most people go into politics with idealism, have an incurable political virus, since politics has endless appeal. They got it. We at the council want to do our part in improving quality of life and creating a better community. The ideals are often put to the test, when the prince's hand is often tested. In fact, this year is a fine example of this, for there are many examples of many of these that appear on the news. In fact, when the large words of a number of former senators are examined in smaller sections and some who have become ministers today, it is clear that ideals have gone away. Princesips have been broken in the last few weeks. You can call it anything, compromises, compromises, or anything else, but a prince's step has been broken. This will not be overlooked. A respectable president. Now that never before, we are pressured into political life to look back on ourselves, not just on the basis of who is in command or who is in a position of government. It is our job to nurture the real things inside. At the same time, it is in our work to worry about the ills involved. And what kind of community do we want to create so much? To me, it is not a community that approves violence and force use, nor is it a society where transparency is evaluated and placed on reports, memos, and information. After the #metoo Revolution, a most welcome revolution, we must agree on the importance of attacking the root of the problem and eliminating the systematic social ills that have been exposed to grass for far too long. We must ask what we can do in that fight, and there the government needs to do more than show a friendly color. Here at a council, all of us must keep to one another's content. My fellow Americans. I have the firm conviction that we must never lose either joy or optimism, and I take pride in the fact that Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has become the highest source of joy. Prime Minister. It's not just a bit cool, but it's a man of character who hopefully manages to put his arms around, not just the government parties that really don't help, but the community. True, the expectation is great at the same time, but setting up in the government is not automatically within the comfort frame. We also know that the image of the government would be very different if another person from the left of the green held that same office. Everybody sees it. That government would not then have become a reality, so we can ask, What role does the subject really play? You can see that prior to the government classes, the political debates were, for in some respects, certain Hunger Games; survival, simply surviving in politics. Now we have a new highest. Prime Minister, in whom I have great faith. For one thing, I would like to give a new government a chance to prove itself and show that history does not repeat itself, that the peace that is being offered for the nation all but not for the protection and interests of the people, as Vilmundur once did. I personally find this an interesting experiment, even though certain conservativeness hangs over the lakes. This is an interesting experiment for the government class and for all of us living and moving in the political reality. The opportunity is sure to be there. The government accepts good living and has every chance of making our country and our community even better. During our restoration, we will resolve to maintain a materialistic position of government, to support good matters, to follow our convictions, and to speak for our fundamental ideals. We understand the importance of compromises and wills, such as more, peace, and professionalism, but we are going to learn from history. Efficacy is not available solely for the maintenance of power, the maintenance of archeological systems and specificities. Reverence will take a stand for freedom against custody. We choose international cooperation against isolationism. We want a responsible financial administration that doesn't send the account into the future. We say liberality instead of conservativeness, transparency instead of secret thinking. We will be loud if the individual's freedom is impaired and will always be on the watch for public interest against special interests. It's clear, it's complicated, and it's simple. At this you may walk, my good Icelanders, with a restoration to the Council. The government and the Allied Parliament wish to bless and bless all the people of the country in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u10	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. The Treaty Treaty District Convention, Independence Party, and Left Green put high emphasis on environmental and nature protection and you must forgive even though I speak mostly of it tonight. The objective of a non-carbon country in 2040 is good news. That ambition has already brought attention to the landstones. The climate program will be seeing the day next year. Such a plan is important, for we are responsible for both the world and future generations. Emphasis will be put on reaching emissions of greenhouse gases that cause climate change in most areas, e.g. Through electrical vehicles in transportation. Economic improvement follows many of these measures, i.e. It is simply practical to attack them. In that case, the left green has to work on a global review of green taxes that promote climate - related decisions. The increase in carbon price by 50% is the first stage of that journey. However, key elements to the recovery of carbon neutralisation are working on a whole - scale program because of carbon binding from the atmosphere. Such actions will take place if this goal is to be met. Good citizens of the country. We can all be happy to set up a national park in the middle of Iceland. A Federal Committee will set up this project, and broad consultations with rural, public, and stakeholders will be made. National park in the Middle East will be the largest step ever taken on nature protection in Iceland and will play a prominent role in Iceland's image as a tourist service country. National park regionalisation guarantees that some areas would be more protected while other areas would be allowed for conventional applications, such as sustainable baits and fishing. National parks are not a small fortress where everything is forbidden, for one of their goals is to communicate and teach about nature and to support the awesome natural experience or pleasures, as the Sigurður Þórarinsson geographer put it. Good citizens of the country. I have long been amazed that the environment and the economy are set up as contrasts without a diagnosis. In this context, we are unsatisfactory to compare the economic effects of activation of national parks or other peaceful areas. In support of my case, I refer to a recent study of champions in Environment and Resources at the University of Iceland. The student studied the economic effects of the National Park Snæfellsjörg, which turned out to be $3.9 billion a year, of which 1.8 billion will remain on the Snæfells. The national taxpayers of the park's visitors are 14 times the annual cost. It is encouraging to note that in the study, for every cent laid on national park in Snæfellsnes, National Park will receive the set of 58 k. Back. These findings, of course, show that nature protection and natural tourism are an economicly strong alternative to the use of natural resources. National parks are economic opportunities for urban development in the country. Good citizens of the country. The government intends to act on a very timely structure for a broad range of long-term energy dating. We need to analyze the demand for energy for the next few decades and in what we want to protect our energy. In this context, it is important to carefully review the work interaction of energy policy making and the decisions needed to establish a framework of where to activate and where to protect. Good citizens of the country. When opposing political powers meet at the government table as we do today, we have a unique opportunity to promote greater peace in nature and environment. That's why I decided to join the government. I'm going to try to find the courage to break out of the conflict politics and focus my energy on looking for solutions with all of you. May I prosper this journey well with all of you... and wish all the people of the country... and the assembly of merry Christmas and New Year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u11	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Iceland has created a international name for its view of equality between the sexes. Here, as the first woman, was a national leader in the democratic election and has a clear view of equality between the sexes since then created a special place for us among the nations of the world. Iceland has also created a name for the environment, Arctic and climate issues, possibly indiscriminately, but we have come to the attention of our clear stand with nature. Hence, it is not out of the way to commend the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for reporting at a conference in Paris earlier this week that Iceland would live up to its commitment to the Paris Convention on a noncarbon section in 2040. This clear view of the government's view of climate is commendable. Iceland has also taken a clear stand in the rights of homosexuals and has led many to the issues and conditions of independence, the country of Iceland leading to what was accepted as the independence of the Baltic States and Palestine. For this clear stand at home and abroad, we create a unique position. Hence, they caught attention when they were at the highest level. The prime minister described his stand on the missile that President Donald Trump shot in the heart of the search for peace between the Israelis and Palestinians during the days. Said the prime minister's decision to describe Trumps as the capital of Israel to be a ◯vage. This was set in motion at the debate tonight, where it was said to be surmountable. Icelanders are an armyless nation - yet. Thus, we are in good standing to take a clear stand for peace and war in the world, a stand against powerful men who seek war and war. This great U.S. president's willingness to work against this area is already causing harm and undermines the search for peace. Main national leaders have either condemned this act of presidents of the United Bandaríkjaforseti or have expressed great animosity. But Iceland's government seems to be mostly sad and disappointed in Trumps's decisions. Thus, it seems impossible for this government to take a firm stand against the work of Donald Trumps that we now observe. It is noteworthy that at the same time U.S. government representatives speak such mildly, a law is passed at the U.S. Senate that the U.S. Navy receives an equivalent of 1.5 billion dollars. fund to reimburse U.S. military shelters here - Iceland. This report was noteworthy, and it had forgotten to introduce to the people that the country had returned to its military post in Iceland, and this was done by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the left movement of a green bid. Good citizens of the country. The government's talking about disappointment and sadness over Donald Trumps's decisions. Today, the government introduced us to its budget for the coming year where she named herself 20 million in an additional presentation for the Council of Government. This government, which in a government contract speaks of climate and the movement of violence in the middle of the #meto Revolution, has the exact same amount of money, 20 million, in the service of sexual and domestic abuse, in emergency conventions throughout the country as well as in the global work for climate change in Iceland. The same amount of money is thus considered in these three areas: a presentation for the government, a service for victims of violence and climate. This, my fellow Americans, is the government policy on these matters. That's how it shows up in black and white. So I take the highest word. To my mouth, I must declare that this is a cause for disappointment. I am sincerely sad about these actions of the government in its first days. - Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u12	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. At present, 500 years have passed since the reformation of the day. The Reformation is taught by Marteinn Lúther and his fight against corruption within the Catholic Church. The social security and welfare of the Reformation have their beginning. Health services and assistance for the poor Lúther's fight against corruption was successful. The beginning of all of this was a handwritten note, attached to a church door in Germany. Today would be enough to put a note on the door of the Ministry of finance and pray to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget of not hiding any information that could blow the new government. We have the press that Lúther didn't have. It is best to let the media handle these matters, but the media must not be impartial. They must not go through the new government of silk, although left greens are on the front of it. Now it is time for the U.S. Radio to shake off the left plunger. Shortly after I was elected to a council for the Central Party, I crossed the East Coast. At the statue of Jón Sigurðsson's son, there was a fine group of foreign reporters and tourists. To the group, an Icelandic guide went. I listened. He said Iceland was the most corrupt state in Europe, and members of the council are many corrupt people. I was shocked, and I thought, "That's how it was. Of course, this is not true, such as corruption. A endemic problem in Eastern Europe, but this shows that all of us here have work to build trust, such as the highest. The prime minister said. As a result of former prime minister's involvement with sensitive issues that were attempted to silence, the result of an advanced government was lost. Trying to silence unpleasant speech depends on the term "corruption. " A prisoner of the left green recently said that it would be good for the nation to get free from the moral corruptions of the Independence Party. Who then would have believed that the same category of power would continue to be guaranteed by the left greens? Speak to the highest. One minister felt that she had not been happy for this cooperation. In such a case, poor sowing produces poor crops. There's a few things wrong with the budget. No change is made in insurance, as was promised. It's available to the Independence Party, who thinks he's the best friend in the world. The offer for older citizens is low, and an increase of 1 billion to the road conditions, 5%, is now the full success of that class. You can't go to all these projects, said the highest. A secretary of transportation in the News Press today. He promised something else before the election. Now that a woman is seated in the health minister's chair, I would like to encourage her to apply specifically for the improved health benefits of women. There is no shortage of professionals and work loads. Although the South is full of population populations, the budget has not been specifically affected. I expected the minister of the Independence Party to correct the injustice that continues on his watch. I share their wishes with them that ahead there is a political stability in Iceland. A new prime minister is facing the challenge of making sure that this will be the case. The task will not be easy. Her two companions are not known for their political stability. Nevertheless, left greens, a group relatively sober in Icelandic politics, have decided to sacrifice their reputation for power, leave their ideals, and join a single bed of advanced power groups with poor outcomes in the elections, so poor that it has not been seen for 100 years. All talk in the campaign to give them a vacation was cut one. I wish to the highest. Happy by the office, the prime minister wishes it well, as well as the entire government. Many put their hopes in the highest. Prime Minister and I hope she talks about more than climate. Now that she's had her chance, I hope she'll live up to it. It could cool off quickly under the political marriage bed. Good Icelanders. May grace, peace, and prosperity follow all of you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u13	A respectable president. Good Americans no matter where they look, Iceland is a success. Almost all economics are positive, there is plenty of work to be done, domestic income has increased, commercial growth, and the general success of the country. Iceland continues to promote equality, and according to international assessment, the health system in Iceland is one of the best things in the world. The standard of living in Iceland is the best thing that happens in the world. But despite good standing and positive prospects, Iceland does not say that there is nothing to fix, change, or correct. There are still burdensome restrictions on the economic and personal freedoms of a nation in this country and restrictions that impair the self - determination and rights of adults. Increased freedom, liberality, is a key factor in the public's standard of living. No matter what standard is used, where the public has freedom of action, the standard of living is better, the life span longer, equal to more civil rights more, less poverty, more equal to gender, and so on. Therefore, it should be our clear policy to increase people's freedom to pursue their lives as they choose as long as they do not interfere with the same freedoms of others. In this context, it should be noted that some groups and individual politicians give themselves over to being liberal without actually being. It is not mere liberality when politicians feel that they have sound, righteous opinions. Sometimes it is those who speak at the top of liberality who are always ready to vote with public intervention and burdensome action in the name of concern for the welfare of the common people. In fact, though, it is the prescientism of the one who wants to rule. There are others who say that they want even more liberal than they quickly become when faced with tests - a choice to the left. The only significant factor is whether a person is truly liberal or not is whether he is willing to support greater freedom to do something that he or she feels is a bad idea. It is no problem to say that we support the right people to agree, but it is the freedom of those who disagree with us. Good Icelanders. All members of the General Assembly need to rely on the variety of human life. It is the right of all to seek their own opportunity to make their own happiness and to seize opportunities. This is true in business, in personal life. A book such as the simple name Progress was recently published here in Icelandic translation. There Swedish historian Johan Norberg writes of how our life on earth has never been better than right now. It is not the personal opinion of the author. Rather, it is a statement based on scientific facts. The nations that have achieved the greatest success and progress in recent years, decades and centuries, are the same nations that have enjoyed the most liberality. All success comes from evolution, imaginative work, and the hard work of men and women, who were given the freedom to live their own lives and to improve the world. This is progress that no agency or government can control or create. Freedom is not a dresser that can be taken around when it is convenient for a political battle or just before elections. Freedom is our attitude toward daily life and how we want to behave and treat others. We want to be liberal, and it depends on us whether we are. As younger ones, we are at times bent on talking about matters that do not matter. Yet, each point is a statement that we have decided to let our life be guided by free will. That battle will never end when people speak for ever greater interference from the government. I hope that all classes will come together during this council and will act for the benefit of the common people, of course, on the basis of liberality. In this way we can repay voters the trust that we had been shown when we were brought here to take up this council by trusting the voters to decide what is best for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u14	My fellow Americans. Mr. President. The priorities of the country before the last election, and the last of them were health issues. In the course right now, it's the most important thing. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, first mentioned health issues. In the government covenant, health matters are mentioned first. It's a good sign. It is also a good indication that left greens are serious about having health care first that they take the seat of a health minister, which is usually rather unpopular, since the minister who sits in it usually becomes unpopular, but also to check the hæstv. level. Svandís's daughter's trouble in the chair, but she's usually very good, she's sort of just always very good at getting her will. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This gives me hope. I talked to the health officials today about the government's budget. They said it was still unclear if they could get past the zero, let alone start a restoration. Now, the key point is that Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the highest. A health minister, not a good conversation, about what is needed for us to start the restoration, with the staff in charge of health care institutions in the country. The most important group of subjects today, for the whole community, apart from health care, is the chicken business. The increase in the salary of the executives far beyond the national pay of the country's average day since then has created a great deal of problems in the labour market and upset 70% of the labour agreements. Pirates called for correction, we gave a bill on correction, as did Davíð Oddsson at the time and later Ásgrímsson Ásgrimsson, yes, they did it when there was a slight rise. But Pirata's case was put on a committee. What I finally did was find a union, VR stepped in, and we filed with a board of dressers. And, yes, I'll pay it out of my own pocket, because it's easy because the raise I got as a senator goes to file charges and make it invalid. This government has acknowledged the importance of making peace in a workforce, both the highest. Jakobsdóttir Jacobdóttir and the highest. Bjarni son of Benediktsson in all his speeches and in a government contract accepts this. I sincerely hope that they will succeed in creating this reconciliation. That's what we all need. Otherwise, there's gonna be a lot of problems in the labour market, strikes, and we're all going to lose. The new president of Generalis, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, is a conservative. I know the old communist doesn't like to hear it, but he's still a conservative. However, the stated will of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is to promote the Council, to strengthen it progressively, to increase its impact, and to its independence. In order to fulfill such a covenant, it is actually necessary to make changes that are difficult for the conservatives to do, so the order of Mr. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son, who is raised by the president of the Generals. But let's give him a chance. Let's see if he can't make it. Let's start with the requirement to transfuse the Senate. How will he succeed until then? Let us judge men according to their deeds. Finally, it's the natural elephant in the administration home, the highest. My friend Andersen, who continues to sit as the highest. Minister of Justice. With the highest support. Ministers of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and members of the council of VG, at this time. As Minister of Justice, she violated a law against the order of a judge in the land court under the judgment of the province in the fall. If the Supreme Court confirms the decision, there are no doubt few who really trust in the Supreme Court. Sigríður Á. Andersen not to abuse his power. On top of it lies a secret problem of the highest order. The minister's information about the adulterated sexual offenders. We will use our surveillance role as senators to investigate the procedures and decisions of the minister in these matters. Piratar and I are on the watch. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u15	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Education, culture, and sports are key elements in our society. All of this is the source of prosperity, the cornerstone of progress, and the root of increased quality of life. There's a big college advance ahead. We are going to prepare our children and community for the huge and rapid technological changes that are already taking place, and we are already having a social impact. We want Iceland to be the first option of young people to live, that education will be in the highest order and lay the foundation for prosperity and well-being. The education system is to prepare the students for new challenges and diversity of work based on creation, the ability and ability to solve complex problems, as the future Iceland has increased in its ability to be a man - made man. Education contributions are investments, not expenses. Every dollar we enter the college level makes an eight-fold contribution to the economy. Next year, the government will increase investments at the university level by 2,800 million. K. Investment will be gained in a more varied business life, a higher risk distribution of the economy, and an increase in quality of life. The country's secondary schools will also be extended immediately next year. The savings that shorten the study to a student's test will result in a return to school business with an increase of over 1 billion. We are going to make sure that our school system is not only varied but also progressive. By this encouragement, we are actually promoting a national industry and engineering program. Besides, there's gonna be more emphasis on real and technical issues at high school. Good citizens of the country. An overwhelming decrease in the teachers'class is one of the largest challenges for society. Many teachers are entering retirement years, and many choose to work outside the educational system. All things must be brought together so that the teachers'work will be restored to the place and respect they deserve. Together, we need to solve the problem we face and approach it with an open mind, possibly thinking things over again, but not only from the system as we know it today. System changes may vary. One such is the planned change in the student loan system, where it is intended to enhance the motivation for good practice and change the credit laws of the LAIN so that parts of the loans will become the intellectual scholarship of their student at the scheduled time. A respectable president. I want to talk about something we all love. That is the case in English, in our language, and in our future. What a joy it is to report that right next year, 450 million will be put in place! K. in a grammatical project aimed at making it relevant to the technological revolution taking place. We should keep English to our children, encourage them to read, write, and create more. We're supposed to make it easier to publish Icelandic literature for adults and children. That is why we are going to change the taxation of English, music, and books, as the government's government covenant says. The first step must be to eliminate the worthy tax on books so that writers and publishers may have more time to cope with challenging circumstances. In addition, the media's environment will be developed to help them continue to be able to communicate good material to us. We continue to support the Icelandic film and TV shows, which are not only important for Icelandic language development, but have also created enormous value for society. Good citizens of the country. Culture, art, and sports are cohesive forces. They're not the few times we've been happy about the achievements of our international artists and athletes, whether it's our girls or our boys. Regularly, the wonderful people are able to inspire us and make us proud. The success of our boys in the World Cup soccer competition is the latest example of many. Something tells me that all the people of the country are waiting to experience the great celebration that will prevail around the Russian World Championship in the next summer. It's supposed to be a celebration. According to this, I wish to wish all the party members and members of the council who are here benefiting the coming council. I look forward to working with you in increasing the ways and respect of the Generals and moving ahead for land and nation. - Good times and enjoy the Adventist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u16	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. Though winter is at present, much light is on land and nation. The economy has been at one of the greatest zeniths in human memory, and the benefits of many have improved accordingly. We in The Gang of the People want to have a general economy as soon as we want to make sure it reaches everyone, but not just for some people. There is no doubt about who is the one who is at heart in Icelandic society. These are groups of elderly and desperate people - but these groups are known as never different from those of children with low incomes and people in general. The people view it as their role at the Council to protect the interests of those who are in palaces and to offer them adequate standard of living instead of the present and ongoing limitations of life. A new government is requested to be successful, but it insinuates its covenant and policy debate that its ambition to improve the terms of these social groups seems modest, not strong. The four - mile - long [15 km] holiday set a whip to a new campaign, where a group of people first recorded the matter and followed. Yet, there should not be an increase in the holiday market from the infamous 25 you. K. in but 100 you. K., which doesn't get what it was a year ago. A recent report for the Fégá of older citizens in and around Reykjavík supports the policy that we have proclaimed is safe and right to go much further in this regard than the government intends. Microbolas, which everyone knows have been left behind, should be assigned to a committee like those of the previous year. Today, at the General Assembly, the leaders of the Quantum Community were well aware of the righteous indignation of disability and disillusionment. The government has to do better than it does in the matters of disability. Another outstanding lack of ambition is the housing of the index. While overall prices as measured by Iceland's Haustium have fallen over the years, this housing has increased substantially, partly due to the policy of more than one part of the city's city city of Reykjavík, which is marked by lack of property and the related increase in real estate and rent prices. This drives through the housing team and has resulted in transport of valuables from local homes to financial institutions, damaging housing and renting. This amount of money is placed in this way at home, running to tens of billions, corresponding to the value of every part of the seawater every year during the past few years. The problem is accepted in the Treaty of the new government, but her intense concern on the matter proves to be no greater than that it says that it should be considered. No actions are offered to remove this force immediately, but it is not enough to initiate a checkup. The government seems to have many good plans and will be supported for fine works, but these few examples show that it needs an active position of government. We will not detract from that subject. A group of people would like to review standards considered valid to this many. What is a balance in the state's population that includes the establishment of society's institutions, such as health and education, in financial terms? What balance is set on the fact that a government fund can survive only taxing income that is not enough for needy ones? A recent report by the European Union of Iceland from summer onward shows black that personality discounts have not followed pay development, resulting in a four - man family with low income makings that are well - equipped for hundreds of productions. K. less than a month if the person withdrawal had taken normal increases. Similarly, a group of people reject the kind of financial stability that includes thousands of Icelandic parents being expelled from their homes, leading their children on hand, as has happened, with tragic consequences for the health and well - being of their children. A recent history of these substances is a shame not to be repeated. A group of people would like to welcome home the thousands of Icelanders who have left the country and live in foreign lands. We must do better than invite these people in an ice - free insurance policy that almost demands the removal of financial independence, as wide commitments as it places upon loans against a much stronger party, which the lender usually makes. In a new financial bill, it should be noted that the government plans to promote law enforcement in the country, even though the government covenant speaks of a powerful law enforcement force. The fact is, the law has had a decrease in the number of policemen since a long time before the collapse, and as the population has increased, the arrival of tourists in the country has increased. It is then clear how much law enforcement is served in the country. The people's party will be keeping a close eye on the police business. The safety of the citizens is one of the cornerstones of society. Finally, a respectable president, I want to emphasize the need for national solidarity and effort on the part of the government - I thank the minister of education for good words just now in this matter - for the protection and authority of the Icelandic language, which is bound to go as never before. We must put our hands at home and in the schools of the country with increased culture and history. - I wish a Merry Christmas to all Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Strong bones are needed to endure good days. That saying is especially appropriate today. It is at a time when this is the biggest mistake we have ever made in economic government. In fact, we Icelanders have countless proverbs that encourage caution. The end should be considered at the beginning. Let us walk slowly through the door of joy. I think the bad news is the best thing to do. Politicians often resort to them during battles, but they listen to the warning contained. Me and the Icelanders now have many things of envy. The economy is flourishing, the level of money has never been higher, and the level of income has rarely increased. The government's financial status has benefited from this trend and the expenses for welfare and education have been greatly increased, the debt of state funds has been paid down, and the investments in the infrastructure have increased. True, we have good work to do, but this must be considered good results when we look to the situation less than a decade ago. Many things have been done, and many things have been done well at this time. As we have seen, as a nation, we are far better able to get out of trouble than to avoid finding our way into them. A respectable president. The political body of a new government is about a lot of nice ends up there familiar on a journey from a former government. The priorities of well - being and the importance of equality can be maintained. But it is much more interesting to see what is not discussed in this government covenant. Changes are there to avoid becoming the focus of the cycle. The government seems to have no independent opinion of a unstable coin or a high interest level. There is little discussion of possible improvements in fishing or agriculture, and there is nothing there on how to promote the competition or improve the interests of consumers. There the public's interests for special interests are replaced. Despite the fine results we have in many areas, our performance is not so impressive in every place. We have the third highest interest level of OECD countries, the third highest food prices, and we work longer than all our controls. The Icelandic economy is also a multifold mechanical record holder. Inflation has been here, and our dollar loses much of its value at regular intervals, causing damage to companies and homes. This is the greatest challenge for Icelandic society. This is why we need much more than our controlled nations. Few if anything could improve the value of Icelandic households over the increase in economic stability as well as the decrease in interest of interest costs and food prices. But it is not just homes that suffer for this instability. The company also has to wrestle with him every day. The Treaty describes concern for the worsening competitiveness of our exports, while much of the solution is presented to the problem. The changes in the years to come will be faster than we have known, and they will be based on the knowledge industry. The work of knowledge has been under attack by the unstable management of the environment. We know that when we look forward to the future, there is our greatest opportunity. Therefore, the competitiveness of these companies makes us very important. There, a constant currency, competitive interest level, and good economic management play a key role. Sadly, the government has nothing to say about the currency or the interest. Its policy in terms of government is directly against responsible economic management and thus undermines our competitive position. The government offers a toxic cocktail of tax doctors and tax payoffs at the climax of the economy. Such policy in government is contrary to all warnings from the Secret Bank and other specialists and contrary to the cost of high economic experience. I'm afraid there's no future here. A deep source of economic instability lies in irresponsible economic government over the decades under the direction of the groups that are once again controlling the country. Although our position is good today, it does not point to calmness. How sad it is to see that it seems to be here to repeat the same mistakes as before! A respectable president. Strong bones are needed to endure good days. I wish the whole country happy Christmas and happy next year. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u18	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We said we were going to strengthen the infrastructure. We believed that the infrastructure had grown so weak that it was a serious danger. That's why we're here. We feel that the health, transportation, and education systems are so important that we, with left green, under the leadership of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, have cooperated with groups that we have criticized at all and never worked with before. This requires clear political will, strength, and courage. We have what it takes. We have that strength and that courage. We dared to take the initiative and seize the opportunity. Sometimes it is said that we are not promoting system changes in this government. That's wrong. We're saving the health, education, and transportation system from the long-term neglect and greed of the money forces in the country. The economy has been straightened out after the collapse. Afterward, many of them are neglected for a long time. The parameters are everywhere. That's why we're here. We are repairing our community infrastructure, respecting the Community Convention, restoring the greater vision that no one will be left and worked accordingly; we will change, change, and also build new ones, and work with the people who know best and know where the need is most. At the same time, we are building a radical climate and environment policy. We are promoting the public health system, the share of the elderly, the disability, the schools, the language technology, and the protection of nature. We want to strengthen the position of minors, women's classes, and broken - down sexual abuse. These are important social benefits. We also emphasize ethics, transparency, and open conversation between classes into society. The left movement is a political movement that has the courage to handle the unafraid projects, political movements, can cooperate with others and lead the rescue mission for an Icelandic society that the people so desperately need. We can lead, and we can point the way. We're changing. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter wants to establish a political exchange for the public in Iceland for the environment and nature and for the culture. We're going to attack the land with poverty. We would like to counter indiscriminate, increase the consumption, reduce the payment of those who become ill, and build up as much as we can in any way possible. We want a more just society. These are big goals, and we will use all our power. One of the things we have put great importance on the formation of government is to trust and build up the General Assembly. After several years of being a member of the Parliament's House of Directors at the U.S. Assembly, it is clear to me that the Senate's position needs to be enhanced, especially a follow-up and a maintenance role to the Commission at any given time. The legal role must also be strengthened by both government and government. These emphasised into the government covenant. Aren't we happy about that? I hope all members of the council. Are we not satisfied with increased financial support for health care? Are we not satisfied with increased education funds? Are we not satisfied with increased emphasis on the moral and spiritual growth of the tongue? Are we not satisfied with radical climate policies, where we join the world's most progressive nations? I hope we like it. A few years ago, Iceland and I lost a great fighter to nature protection. Guðmundur Páll Ólafsson was memorable, powerful, and tireless, leaving him with many books. I had the privilege of knowing Guðmundur and enjoying his guidance and friendship for years, the last time I served as a minister of the environment. Páll was a demanding member of the congregation. Thus, members of the congregation are the best, those who make great demands but support a man for fine works. I urge every member of the country to be a demanding member of a new government, to keep us firm. That's how we all do the best. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u19	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We are given up the laws and pleasures of nature here on earth, and we have learned to adapt to them. However, the laws of nature do not exist as widely in our lives as they might sometimes be expected. It's, for example. not natural laws that here are high interest rates and overwhelming years of loans for all ordinary employees who are merely satisfying the basic needs and basic rights of each family to have shelter. The currency is not natural laws. The crown is not a national treasure that we should love as the loo and gurgosole eyes. Rather, it is an arrangement for the division of valuables in the community that suits the rich and the powerful, the specialities, but the bites of all the people in the form of interest and insurance, not to be spoken of as the massive failings we teach in plagiaring. It is not a natural law that causes the nation's profit from its sea resources in the form of fishing bills to be 1% of the government's income. It is the decision of politicians to have it this way because it is suitable for powerful forces. As a result, we will be of a powerful, righteous, and lasting income to strengthen the community, while the rabid food owners are dwindling throughout the nation's life, with all the consequences, the one who finds his way back from the world's tax clouds. It is not physical laws that powerful men can resort to violence and harassment and rely on invisible alliances and laws of brothers to cover up, hide paths, destroy data, white blood. It is not physical laws that we need to adapt to ministers only to breaking a promise after election, as was done by the National Remuneration Act on Member States and, as has been done over and over again in donations for health and education. In a democratic state, the betrayal should be a political impossible. It is not physical laws that this rich, well - educated nation enjoys a health system characterized by uncontrolled, chronic neglect, excessive work loads, and patients lying on tunnels like those in war - torn lands. Price insurance and high interest are not like rains; public service is not like fire metabolism. None of this is physical laws, but all of this testifies to the fact that public interests are presented and decisions are guided by special interests. This is not because politicians are corrupt and bad people. Rather, they require drastic and profound changes in Icelandic society, a new destiny, a new prospect. I'm sorry, but I don't think there's anything at all about policy. The prime minister, or financial bill, shows that such changes are in store. Rather, most of the evidence indicates that present governmental groups have decided to strike a special interest capital. Good citizens of the country. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u20	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. The basic theme of the government contract is compromise. That emphasis was also shown in a talk at the highest. Earlier this evening, prime minister who spoke of sacrifices for less interest in more interests as it brings benefits to the community as a whole. In these words, you can read the beautiful promises of responsible governance and expand your consultations in order to increase the success of many. As soon as I wish a new government well-being at work, I'd like to point out that there is a need for more success for everyone, that people around the country wherever they choose to live, because each one counts, but it doesn't matter how they do it. Sadly, it seems unlikely that they will be caught by the compromises on the state of the government. I know only about the health system, and in my conversations with the staff, it has repeatedly been said that it is normal to bring the ministry closer to those who need it. Doctors and other professionals are noted to be more mobile than patients. And since I live in Akureyri, I want to mention that there are two oncology specialists there every week, caring for their patients. Since I have my mind on Akureyri, I would like to use this opportunity to point out that just recently there has been a successful team of experts at the Akureyri Hospital. This shows that it is possible to extend the ministry to patients in all parts of the earth. What is needed is clear political policy in that direction and the will to change the system. Sadly, both seem to lack from this government. It has been observed that the government intends to consider reducing the cost of travel and support for patients. From this it can be clearly read that patients, more often than not very ill, should be transferred between parts of the country or, rather, at the NY Hospital, with the appropriate costs and risks, instead of moving the patient to the patient's place. The words of prime minister cannot be understood, so changes of the health system should be made in any way. So the system will continue to serve best itself, and it is the wrong thought. They are designed to create a framework for society, so they need to change with society. They are to adapt to the needs of the community and the people of the country. Another factor is that there will be no change to the location of a land hospital ◯ A university hospital, despite the fact that all criteria for local choice are smiling. Instead of finding the best place for the future that will benefit patients, staff, and caregivers, there are plans to continue in the circle of Ring Road. The position of a national hospital is not merely a matter of organization and construction, since hospitals focus on feelings, life, death, joy, and grief. That is why it is important to make sense, not decades - old and out - of - date. Health matters are to be top priority, the health system should be for the people to whom it needs to be met, and the government has to have the courage to change the system. Only in such thinking is the real promise of responsible governance, increased consultation, and more cooperation. - Thank you and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u21	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I congratulate new members of Parliament and look forward to cooperation with them and all of you. My hope for the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir is great, and I personally have great faith in the cooperation of the packs. I have the hope that the government and the Council will live up to the expectations of the nation and that a good economic status will lead to the whole community and first to the weak. The foundation of well - being and leeway for better people is a powerful nationwide work ethic, economic stability, labour market peace, and political stability. One of the most important projects of the General Assembly is sharing government funds for legal projects all over the country. There is an equally important aspect, and all the people of the country are to sit at the same table. A statistical comparison in the 2014 financial bill made by the Southern Community was made a significant difference between the government's donations to institutions in the South and other parts of the country. It shows that the activities of the Southnesian Institutes of Health are given 40% of their contribution to the National Institutes of the East and the lowest contribution from the institutions near the capital, or 43% of those given to the Western Health Organization. When it comes to a number of nurses, the Southnes'health system has a lot of space, or 5.4 space, with a geometric mean of 7.4 spaces per 1,000 inhabitants. A summary of Aton's financial contributions in Southnes this year shows that financial contributions there are still lower and have not achieved in any way according to the unprecedented increase in the population of Southnes, which is 16% in 20103/42017. The aim of the government, to bring the economy to the whole community, applies also to Southnes. My fellow Americans. One of the main objectives of the government is the health system. National health institutions are part of the structure that requires additional funding for hospitals, hospital transportation, and equipment. The land hospital is the most important institution, but it is not the whole health system. National health institutions are the foundation of each community, and we will protect them. Treatment institutions are part of the health system in the country. It also performs miracles every day, in Vogi, in Hl surgicalhouse, and in Krysuvik. It is our duty to strengthen the foundations of these institutions. No one will miss the fact that health matters are the priority of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The plan is to strengthen treatment institutions and make a major contribution to mental health. In the coming year, the annual dental costs of senior citizens and disability will be increased, and special access to health care will be maintained throughout the country. Honorable President, my fellow Americans. A brief talk mentions only the violations of the fine aims of Jakobsdóttir's daughter Katrín to bring more prosperity to the community. This vision is given to both wings in every part of the community. - I wish you all a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u22	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. And bad. Piranha have sometimes been radical. Whether this is considered to be a shame or to take is a complete walk. And as time passes, what is radical and what is not is often different. Today, the equality of the sexes has led most of the story to a radical and, in fact, distasteful measure. She sees herself today, even though it is still a long way off. In 2013 many of Pirata's policies on drug abuse were radical. Now she's almost conservative, and it's about time. Whether to call the new constitution a radical or not an even greater issue, it seems that this idea somehow was both self - determination and radical from a republicC. It's not quite cut and cut. So I'd like to drop three of the first teams out of Pirata's basic policy for meditation: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Piranha stresses critical thinking and well - informed decisions. 2. This means that Pirats cross their course in the light of data and knowledge gained regardless of whether a proposal might at first be desirable or not. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who her spokesmen are. 3. The previous decisions made by Pirata need to be able to make a review. Now I hope that someone has become bored with this reading because it all seems to be a common sense. There's nothing radical about these good policy teams, or it seems there is. But I'm gonna disagree. I mean, it's still nothing less than the most radical political policy in Icelandic politics. I'm gonna try to give some reasons for that. ▪ Well - informed decisions have been made until people find a reason to do things right away. It will be a radical time to look at things further. To give ideas that at first seem undesirable would also sound good - even until a political opponent says something that is easy to judge and demean. At that time, the opponent's idea will be taken seriously. To take a stand on ideas regardless of where they came from sounds good, until the Independence Party talks about fishing, or an increase in economics, or Pirantar speaks of a new constitution. It will be a radical time to join the enemy. Revising past opinions. So, then, do not voters take it for granted to know the preconceived opinions of candidates? What is more shameful than saying something in opposition to what was previously written? It's radical to change one's mind in politics. But why are these radical ideas in politics and not in everyday life? I'm sure there are many reasons for that. For one thing, it is so easy to judge and minimize the ideas of others. It is so important in politics to give the first note, to tell its own version of the story first. Whether we like it or not, we are bound to be in some kind of popularity contest. I think most of us will like it worse. Worse yet, at times politicians are called upon to adopt the habit of this so - called common sense. Sometimes the bad habits are simply required by fraud and all that is involved. I suggest that politicians must choose well the demands. The claim that a politician would think and make decisions without getting time and time is a requirement for foolish decisions. The requirement that a politician automatically reject certain groups of ideas is required to ignore views that are contrary to one's own. The requirement that a politician never change his mind requires a politician who has stopped learning new things. Values such as making informed decisions, listening to objections, accepting them, showing respect for facts, even when they are not in harmony with your main wishes, and being able to change your mind, are always called common sense. But when it comes to it, that sense of reason becomes radical. Let's change it. Let's change it here. Let's change it today. I suggest we make common sense, my fellow Americans. I suggest we all try. Finally, a respectable president, I propose meetings of the Allied Regular Committees to be usually opened. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - Good times. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u23	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. There are many tasks under the social and equality category. They are tricky, and most of them have some concern for the position of more vulnerable groups in the community. I will approach the tasks that are subject to this office with respect and kindness. For the groups under this Ministry, improvements and measures are being proclaimed to improve their situation in many ways. In this brief discourse, we cannot discuss many subjects. What is foremost in my mind is the circumstances of children who live under difficult circumstances for various reasons. Children who suffer because of poverty who suffer because of parental alcoholism or other mental disorders, children who suffer from domestic violence, children who suffer for these or other reasons, and who need help. Our welfare system must intervene for these children so that they do not lose the important and positive things of childhood. I want to do what I can to improve the position of these children and to promote the resources of the welfare system in their behalf. We hear of depression as a growing problem especially in young people. The world has changed. The pace is great, and the relationship between people is much lower. Others are socially isolated and lonely. Elimination is increasing from school and young people who receive a disability pension are growing, and the most common reason for the disability of young people is mental. These trends reduce the number of active members of society, and the lack of participation is accompanied by problems and poor quality of life. Is this because the welfare system has not fit our children? A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In order to promote social participation and to reduce isolation, the emphasis must be made on dealing with the damage to prevent and early intervention, with special emphasis on strengthening families and children. There's gonna need a system change. According to the labour agency's numbers, over one thousand people between 18 and 30 years of age are registered for job search. This group of young people is over one quarter of all jobseekers. I ask myself, " Why are all these young people not active workers in a job market when there are many jobs? ' We must face these challenges and ask what is needed. Is there more work, more learning, more efficient training strategy, or perhaps just something else? That is what we need to examine and emphasize. Good citizens of the country. In a short talk like this, there's little room for discussion on the many issues that hear under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I'd still like to handle it so that it's perfectly clear that I'll put some extra housing benefits on top of my schedule. Most important, like the highest priority. The prime minister came in here, ensuring racial equality, whether in the labour market or in other areas of society. Sexual discrimination, harassment, or violence are probably even greater and more serious problems than many thought. As to this, the many examples that have been discussed are cited recently under the signs of the campaign #metoo. Good citizens of the country. I look forward to cooperating with the General Assembly, with the rest of the world, with those under this department, and with all the citizens of the country. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u24	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said in his persuaded speech that, above all, equality was about equal between classes of classes and making the tax system more righteous regardless of the origin of income. Most compensations, strengths, and other poverty payments intended to meet special costs, e.g. Due to motor inhibition and drug costs, income taxation is mandatory. These tax responsibilities on the current payment result in a chain-based decrease in other subsidies, e.g. Strategies, housing support, alimony, and child support. Embraces of these supplements and strengthens are similar to contributions to political parties and thus incomprehensible in this context. The tax system and its chain effect cause improvement and support, not to deliver its purpose, but even to cost the disability. In this context, e.g. damages the cost of remuneration to a dollar and leads to the loss of the invalid, although he has every right to the microchip. The state rights the disability as a result of the death of a mate by the left hand and then takes them back by the right hand. It's the worst kind of punishment system. How do these human rights and constitution fit in? A crown in return to a decrease that everyone promised for elections that will not be on the government's agenda after the election. A crown against a dollar is a violation of human rights. 76. g. The constitution should protect the microplasia. V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said in his persuaded speech that the government was to evaluate the most efficient groups, and especially those of children who live in poverty. Today, children live in very poor health in Iceland, and there are not yet one or more committees to review it, but they immediately make sure that no children or others live in very poor poverty. Then we need to make sure that no one lives in poverty in the rich society we live in Iceland. Pension, income insurance, and household satisfaction were at the start of local pay in 1988 without tax, and there was the rest of the person's pay to other incomes, e.g. Pension funds. Predicted that this was slow in 1988, it is well possible today. Let's take up step - apart personal discounts, so that the provision of a pensioner, the income of the income, and the number of intermediate workers increases rather than reduce the lower level of income taxation by individuals, such as the highest level. Prime Minister wants. It's not natural for people in pensions and underpayers to have the same personality discounts as high-priority employees. The number of disability and older citizens is not available for food, medicine, or medical care. Depravity and greed, which includes rejecting all compassion and helpfulness, leaving children and sick people in absolute poverty, is never justified. I signed my word to the Constitution earlier today, as any member of the Parliament has done, and I intend to fulfill my promise. Before entering a new constitution, let us at the General Assembly agree to abide by the current constitution by eliminating poverty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-2.u25	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I don't think there's any reason to bring feathers over that there are good things in the Treaty of the Government's Left Green, Independence Party, and Propulsion. In fact, many of the fine things familiar to me from the government of the past. It would even have been without charge that there would have been extra power between them, e.g. Stressing the easier price for immigrants to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society, including by simplifying the activities of people outside the European Economic Area and by showing appreciation for the education of people from wherever they come. Is that not a worthwhile goal for the highest? A minister of education who has spoken so beautifully about the importance of education? There are other reasons to pause, ending much to consider under the government covenant. The government's Christmas gift to travel services is eliminated from the former government policy of a worthy tax change. This in itself is not surprising. The Wildcats of the Independence Party have avoided any changes proposed in that class since the successful natural pass of this year. However, the government's contract of the present government certainly requires that other means be considered as a currency. And now there's a review of a return-and-execution fee in flight. This does not mean that independence is merely an increase in taxes in foreign tourists; the taxpayers are also under it. Above all, though, there is a message about continuing inactivity in that important industry. Updated national student loans is long overdue. During the past seven years, two time - consuming reviews have been made under the leadership of two of three governmental categories. You might imagine that there would be at least you can go straight into action, well thought - thought - out, and start a mass of mass attendances and make needed changes for the benefit of students. No, in the Ministry of Education, a representative of the third Amendment is now in session, reporting a review. But not what? A respectable president. All fairness is not to be taken into consideration by the government covenant. The maintenance management of green, independent party, and forward is not a reason to consider improvements in fishing, agriculture, or currency. Certain changes in the out - of - date systems could indeed be in the interests of consumers, in the interests of the public. English people have opposing sides that clearly have greater power. This is a sad trend. But for some reason, it has been necessary to strengthen the defenses here. Perhaps they were simply starting to show up. Good Icelanders. The government of the left green, independent party and forward has, as defined by its first indicators, something else on its policy list, than to be careful and careful. During the years of success, there is a fine chance for peaceful cooperation in the home of the government, as long as you can spend your life without priorities and without large policy decisions and measures that will make you a happy future for an Icelandic nation. The challenge will be postponed. Finally, I wish for the highest. The prime minister and the government all the well - being with all good work in behalf of the country and the nation. And to you, my fellow Americans, I wish you luck in the coming year.
