ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u1	Madam President. Just to prevent any misunderstanding, this isn't Pirata's bill of advice, that it will correct the salary of the senators in the direction of a pay record. Of course, that matter is still in the committee. It's a bill that's supposed to correct the card bill that was approved for Christmas, it was in such a hurry that people made mistakes, as is so common here, and we're going to have other cases tonight and we need to talk about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u2	Madam President. This is the most embarrassing case in which a paper with the bill is wrong, as we have already made. They discuss that Iceland's National Registry intends to rent the equipment to produce passports, while it is planned to buy them. We feel that it is important that respect be given because articles have a legal value. We didn't see any reason why this case would be called in again and presented with the correct report. We feel that this is a pretty bad practice, but we still have nothing against a national record buying gadgets to make passports, so we get yellow on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u3	Madam President. I just want to briefly mention the views presented in my committee section of the Economic and Business Committee due to the payment of this case on the Committee. The case showed that the bill was like the rest of the surveillance system based on a two-part solution to the European Union and the European Free Trade Association. The European Union stock market, the EUMA, should monitor the implementation of the Regulation within the EU as well as the national monitoring organisations. However, the EUMA will largely handle the technical preparation of all decisions, although ESAs will be formal candidates. The minority feels that there is considerable, unquestioning of authority that takes place with all the types that are now introduced into Icelandic law and subject to the fact that the European financial monitoring system is a significant and doubtable game that such vast legal legislation is a constitution. So I've finished an explanation for our votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u4	A respectable president. Since I would like to explain to you, my proposal to change is for the owners of the earth that fall outside the definition of rendering service to their planet, but the earth is subject to the intimidation of tourists, and in fact, it is the only source they have to fence off their land. I suggest that there is a possibility for a minister, if it is shown that there is no service at the site, to disqualify a protest demand to a maximum of 8 million. K. This is really a barrier to existing holes in the law and helps people to avoid harming their lands because of tourists. So I suggest that people vote here on the basis of categories, everyone will be positive, and will not follow these documents that most people have in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u5	A respectable president. This whole matter is rather positive, adapting to the arrangement we know today. The point of view. A senator described the above as fine. Nevertheless, we received the explanation for the committee that it would also be possible to collect from the fund of the Environment Ministry. They're splitting it up. It was considered wise not to be confusing the situation at the moment, perhaps to respond. However, it is a clear problem to help those who are not in travel service but who live in a place where tourists want to stop to protect nature, possibly creating a position to stop without damaging everything around them. So, we advanceers will not support a suggestion. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg, son of Guðmundsson, but we have an understanding of his view.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u6	A respectable president. In connection with this adjustment proposal, I'm going to be able to express myself on these changes in the bill that greatly improve. I'm a member of a rural government, and it's been very strange for private and rural communities to apply to the fund of competition with government agencies on budgets. There is a very wide need for improvements, e.g. In our district, the Northwest District. It is very important that we make the most of our funds and funds. So I'm very happy that this has become so that we are no longer competing with government agencies for financial gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u7	A respectable president. Here's how Piratars have opinions. In fact, this adjustment is a matter of promoting the level of control. Minister to state. It is about providing marine interest groups with access to information from all weight-separating authorisation holders, i.e. who weigh the fish in themselves and report it, in effect increasing the surveillance of sailors' unions and their likes. It's not that everyone has access to this information today because those outside Iceland's Marine Society are not getting it. This will make it easier to monitor the Fish Room because men are being helped by seamen's stakeholders to keep effective surveillance. So I tell you, like I did here earlier, that it's going to be at least colourful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u8	Madam President. This is where we vote for a new law on the use of marine vegetation around the country. This matter, however, has caused some confusion within the council and outside and is in the middle of a foreign dispute, but it seems to be ported to me. I think it's good that there are a number of different viewpoints in this case at the end. We're linking more researchers than the Marine Research Institute, both the Natural Institute and a number of other bodies, the British Environment Agency, on British protection laws. It is suggested that marine resources and ecosystems be monitored, as well as that of an monitoring program for the environment. I think it's done well and cross-cutting to make things so much better. It has been in operation for quite some time in the fishing department. I suggest that it be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to join my last speaker, here's a good thing to do. It's been a while at the council. It was also here during the last term, and now we've managed to tie it together. Today, there is a review of the uses of Brefustur. It appeared to the committee and to the members of the Oceanographic Institute that we were far better off with these laws than we were before because there were, of course, some debates about the law. They will likely change in the future, but this is a good start, and I agree with the last speaker and suggest that we accept this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u10	A respectable president. I'm going to make a recommendation that this case will not be approved. Piranha was content with the initial experiment change, after which the time of this blessed provision was prolonged by incomprehensible reasons. In fact, provisional regulations have proved that there can be a relatively long period of time for a period of decades if this is the case. In any case, it's good that these laws come into the bill. But that this is not to be thought of as an experience during actual research; rather, it is to extend this provision to five years instead of three years of age is why Piratar and I cannot accept this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u11	A respectable president. The key elements in this matter are the introduction of the license team protocol for this utilisation procedure. It is complicated in many ways and takes on many factors. This is the first law on this subject, which is a good step supported by the laymen. However, it is almost certain that in the next few years, the Council will need to discuss further laws on the practical use. But it's good to take this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u12	Madam President. The reason I was on the yellow button in this case is because I had no idea that there should be a change in the motion. She's the one that's changing the case. How is this, Mr. President, if the President can inform us? Anyone can naturally recall a change of shape at any time. It is certain conference gymnasium to provide adjustments in matters that look fine, so they are called back. When did it appear that this adjustment should be called back? Maybe I wasn't following along well enough. Was that clear? Is it in general that they should be informed? Maybe I'm out on the field. It looks like someone else is better informed than me in this room. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This surprised me. [[Up front.]] This can obviously be used for a purpose, but I'll get this informed afterwards with all these smiling people here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u13	The president may inform us that this proposal has been retracted by the head of the committee opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u14	Madam President. Here we are paying a vote for a bill, which, in fact, is a element of various regulations. Hv. Councilmen Left green, i.e. Me and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttur Bryfjörðurdóttir, who sit on a financial and business committee, suggest a change in this bill, which aims to eliminate certain parts of it. These are the elements that depend on paying the tax rate of military activity in this country, whether by cost taxes, inspires, or on the mass of other fees that are to be given to military activities a special discount. In view of our opposition to our presence in the Atlantic Union and against the military action of this coalition, we suggest that military activities are not beyond the challenge of giving any particular tax appeal to military activity. I hope so. Councilmen will support the changes involved, and here are some of them, excommunications. Otherwise, we support suggestions in this bill, which is a tapeworm.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u15	Madam President. There's a lot of good suggestions for making a few adjustments. Councilmen left greener on this case. It is very strange to give such tax appeals for this purpose. Other than that, it's a strange bandworm that might be more at home with a budget bill as it is once thought to be. It's a bit of a combination, isn't it? But there's nothing awful in this that there's a reason to mind this, so I'm going to stick around the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u16	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the excellent means of transportation by means of a tunnel under the Valaleha. I'd rather have liked us to vote on a case that was about to face up to it, to do a job where the State is responsible for over 14 billion of the budget while the sponsors are running a stream of several hundred million dollars in cash is nothing more than a government venture. I will not stand in the way of this good thing, and the money will have to be finished. But I hope that in 2021, when the case comes back to the council, when it needs to be refurbished, we have to discuss rather that the state will take over as normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u17	A respectable president. I support this case for the simple reason that it is ridiculous not to continue in this current process. I made this up in my discussion at the time that I wish we would think about the matter and learn only from it, only settled over if it is necessarily right for the government to go into a lot of cooperation with the private amount of money when it comes to transportation, and, in fact, a head needs to take a good look at this, especially when it comes to the extent that the road system is. I hope we try to learn a little from this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u18	A respectable president. Clearly, the State will have to take over this project. Please finish the tunnel, just finish them right away. It's a very subtle means of transportation. But do it honestly. Here is where the responsibility is placed for the government fund to take over to the next election period. It's irresponsible for this council, to just roll it over to the next terms. Do it right. Here is a disregarded law on the Statety Fund just so that we, forgive, you can throw away the responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u19	Madam President. I am one of the majority members of the budget board on this matter. It is good to say that with this opinion we are primarily defending the interests of the state as a lender and helping to ensure that the project is completed and that the tunnel will be used. There are two things I would like to mention specifically and, as a matter of fact, appear. Another is that at the beginning of the financial and economic work, the report on how to handle the project and how to prepare it from the beginning. It is essential that this report be reviewed here at the Council and that the experience regarding this procedure will be learned. [[The president calls.]] I would also like to state that the greater part feels necessary that once the future budget of financing is established and given a special legal hearing that will be changed in 2021 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u20	A respectable president. I will always facilitate transportation, so I will support this and rejoice that we are working on transportation. However, without discussing the matter, I would like to state that there are some unusual practices involved in all of this, which make it possible for this transport to be provided for other transport improvements. But I welcome the arguments that are used in this matter. The same evidence applies to many other important transport reforms in the country, especially in the South, where traffic flow increases most today, the argument is that government funds are losing money and social interests by not completing the tunnel. However, it is also true that we do not finish and fix extreme roads. Therefore, I hope that the whole world will come together and use these arguments in other places as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u21	V.E.G. President. I don't think we have anything else to do but pay the price for this mission to end. This is an enormous amount of transportation, an action that will be useful to the entire country, although especially to the inhabitants of North and Eastern countries. I urge all of us to support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u22	I went to one of the committee meetings for what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, chief member of the committee. It made it very clear that the state has only 37% of all of this together, although it provided almost everything from start to end. It means, in effect, that the taxpayers pay and the private people get to take the money from this. The government accepted the responsibility. It was also mentioned in the Committee that this is, according to the standards and conditions set, not by personal interest, but by the government. I need you to finish this. But if this is done without the fact that the State, which contributes to this increased responsibility, receives a dominant share, the national tax dollars is still being cast into supporting the so - called private process so that the private community will lose less. The people of the city and the people of the land have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for pointing out the problem with this matter. A special program is being put aside on specific grounds that everyone at the time knew would not be able to resist. The result was that they did not survive, the prerequisite for the State's responsibilities. Now we're repeating that game, even though we know for sure that it has to be canceled. It doesn't resist the laws of state responsibility. Of course, other parts of the country come to the finish and say, "Hey, we want to do the same, can we go by the budget and the transport programme, etc.? Take responsibility for this now, instead of throwing it in the head of the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u24	Madam President. As I have previously said in this sermon, it is with the development of later times; as the City Bridge was in its time, or the Haggard tunnel. I'm not gonna argue with you how it was right. There's a lot of us here who said it might've done better. It doesn't make any difference that here we are in this position. The procedure is at a critical time for contractors. I don't think we can wait to make this decision, so I suggest that this case be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u25	A respectable president. All transport benefits. Of course, it does matter how they are treated. When this case was decided, I could not support it on the basis of my belief that priorities were wrong at the time we did not have money. On the other hand, I congratulated the transport benefits that would come to those tunnels when they were finished. They've been in incredible trouble, most of them unseen. Some of these may have been available for further testing, possibly not. When we were confronted with a half finished Harpa in the past with no money, we decided to finish it. It's obvious that we're also going to finish the Venal Hall. They will make good transportation. The question of whether the decision was right in its own time is quite another story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u26	Madam President. In fact, the matter has ceased to revolve around whether to dig a tunnel, the tunnel has been dug. True, these things need to be completed, and it is good to finish them because they are transportation. In fact, I've never understood the inclination of the Icelanders to set it for themselves to drill through a mountain every time, that it's a big deal. The fact is, it is no longer about drilling through a mountain. It is now about how to finance that project. Should we do so by putting on the Kingdom responsibility that we all know will eventually fall upon the State, probably sooner or later? Or should we cancel this now and do it right by feeling the money, doing it normally so that we resolve it according to some of the many ways that it might go. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has pointed out and, in fact, others here? It is natural not to take a personal position on the back of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u27	A respectable president. We've come to stay. They've been drilled. They need to be finished. We who live in this area know that this is a great improvement, of course, in our efforts. That's why I'm rooting for this tunnel. On the other hand, I am very opposed to how to finance them. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has come in, and I can't help but see how to finish the case even though I really like the tunnel as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u28	Madam President. I feel it is appropriate now to open this speech from the platform. I'm actually feeling a Witness of separation if that matter gets over here tonight. I'm going to use this opportunity to encourage any group of council members to support this good thing. At the same time, I would like to use this opportunity to thank you for the discussion that has taken place over the past few weeks and months. In addition to the relief efforts made in these matters, if the bill is a law, the debate has played a huge role in advancing matters in the right direction, for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u29	Madam President. There are things that would have been better off on this bill, and perhaps they are not completely in harmony with what was said at the outset. But this is a small and good step toward equality between the sexes. But we still have a long way to go. Of course, this is especially true of training and changes in values that we eventually reach. But we in the United States will vote for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u30	Madam President. Something must have leaked out of that balloon since she was blown up in New York. And although I'm one of those who support the issue, one of the majority opinion from a General and Education Committee, I'm not here to take the Viking party for the Supreme Opportunity. The Secretary of Equality of Þorsteinn Víglundsson. That's right. paritaprevir "Logi Einarsson, here is a step in the right direction. But it's not as big as they wanted to be. This has now clearly been revealed in the case of the council. And what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson does not have to worry about filling up a separation bed, for this case will come back in the season of election. It needs to be fixed when there's an experience with it, probably right away in the fall. We on the General and Education Committee will not delay calling the Minister into Congress with the matters needed to make this case as good as it was supposed to be, because it wasn't when it came from the Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u31	A respectable president. Hv. A global and educational committee has put much time and energy into changing things that will improve the bill in my opinion. In particular, I would like to say that the majority of the items are directed to the Ministry of Health in consultation with Iceland's Standards to negotiate access to the locator if the bill is legal. In that case, we're taking legal measures in terms of reconciliation and cooperation with the Department of Health and Equal Opportunities. The more I think about the management of the bill with us in connection with the objective of the case and the changes in attitudes the bill will bring to the community, the more I rejoice in the changes made in the case in cooperation with the Ministry. Congress and the Ministry have contributed to the progress of the situation. I also rejoice that we are taking steps toward the goal of making sure that men and women receive the same reward for the same work. I have high hopes that in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Justice, they will continue to contribute to the equality of the job market. I also have hopes that other important factors will be considered on the pay of the sex, such as sexual selection and the remuneration between professions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u32	Madam President. Pirats and I are not against the same salary or group of jobs, as we can see today. On the other hand, we lack transparency. There are laws that are being passed that point to a standard that is not open to the public. Laws such as this are not revealed to my knowledge, which simply cannot be considered valid laws. Even if it does not improve, they also follow instructions. The General and Education Committee for the fact that Ministers are actually given unpublished checks to make some sort of reference to Iceland's Council for the release of this facility, a motif that the Ministry of Health will probably not be able to refuse because it is natural for the Ministry of Health to have the standard. I don't call it a good deal, Madam President. It's a real disappointment to Piranha and me that the government side, apart from us, is participating in what I would call a last-strike error at the highest level. Minister. The case is not finished. It'll have to be better than that. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u33	A respectable president. I agree with the speech of the previous senator. The proposals of the Commission suggest that the management board, or board, and the General Assembly will proceed first to the same pay or work group. In view of the host's comments, if we speed up, how much that would cost, it could be about 100 million that it costs in human months to go through that category. I'm saying this because there's no expense assessment in the bill. They're to be followed by Congress. Pirats and I would be green if it weren't defective. It's just that simple. Left greens have called this matter a beginner error. Piratar and I don't sign a starter mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u34	President. When a minister decides to take the Viking party out in New York City, without having the case signed by the council, or that it came here for a discussion, it is only reasonable that a very small little moment of applause be made. This bill isn't ready. It's not ready. There is no cost, there is no transparency to the standards to be based on. Here we are doing, as we've been, the state's paying something that's not foreordained. I think it's really bad law, really bad. I would have chosen that this case, such as any of the others on the program, would have had more work. Sadly, there are times when it is provoked by the ministers who seem to be more important than careful legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u35	A respectable president. It's a peculiar thing, it's chicken fat on the right way to more equality. Me and the laymen support that idea. However, it's quite deformed, by no means finished. Came incomplete. And even if it has improved, this is a case we should have delayed and returned to in the fall. It would have been wise to start with the Council of Control, as is expected in the bill, that it is done in the first two years. That should have been enough. The experience then should have entered a new bill in 2019, about how things should be. We candidates will vote for our own conscience because this is a strange matter. [[The president calls.]] We support the equality struggle, support the chicken step, but the matter is not fully understood and will come in and out again before this code will work on the public market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u36	Madam President. This is the largest assembly case in the Revolution and almost one of its serious issues at this council. But this case has a long lead, up to 2008, when its preparation began. It certainly has to be overemphasized. The matter must be fixed, this is not a patent solution that we discuss, and let's vote on here today. To promote the equal rewards of the sexes, the most important work must be done, the removal of a sex - trade labour market, and the assessment of women's work as much as other jobs. In addition, this equally pay-authorization does not capture the caste distinction or the hirraki in a labour market, an attitude, a work culture, and a sexual educational system. [[The president calls.]] This is an excellent effort, but it has nothing to do with a global solution presented by a Viking rock in New York City.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u37	A respectable president. We have a somewhat peculiar position on this matter. Now, the man here has worked hard to be a minister of equality, a general, and a member of the forward party. With former prime minister, why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, signed Iceland's involvement in the so - called HeForshe struggle, and I encouraged all the generals, men especially, to sign it. But what's being done here is really, like, what's going on. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir put it, like a mouse on the road, somewhere picked up. The government is trying to make this mouse into an elephant, trying to convince us that this will solve the lot of the sex, this way, and this case, which, of course, it does not. Maybe it's a good thing. Maybe it's a little step in that direction. But this does not solve the problem. I'm worried that this will distract me from the problem. That's what I'm worried about. I think there's a lot more work to do, too, as we have seen. Much of this is fucked up. I can't vote, which I find very sorry we're here talking about one of the biggest cases the nation once. It's a human rights matter, but the government and the government have made it some kind of bastard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u38	A respectable president. A few senators have made an excellent metaphor in this case, but I'd like to change it a little. This isn't a chicken step or a step in the right direction, it's a jump over a canyon. It's 100 million. K. deep and there's no way we can jump all the way to the other side. However, visitors came to the committee and explained to us that they have other tools they use to help them see if there are unexplained salary differences within their companies. It's like if we walk down the path a little further there's a bridge that's inviting us to cross the woods. Instead, we choose to take the long jump, the animal jump. To me, that's not an option. I'd rather walk down the path and take the bridge first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u39	A respectable president. This case is the most embarrassing. It began, of course, with some low statements from a restoration of patent solution on the pay of the sexes, reaching a climax at a meeting of the United Nations by Vikings and then becoming just more embarrassing and awkward. We've had to receive a whole body of Senate committees, delegations from other councils, who would like to discuss this wonderful, splendidly as they'd have to be returned easy, since the bill was not presented. A respectable president. This matter is by no means finished. This is why Congress is sometimes allowed to live between councils. This is one of those who would probably get better if they were to work on it better. This is not a patent solution to the pay of the sexes. I wish this case had been won so well that I could vote it because I think it's a step in the right direction. The situation is simply that it is not. You can't vote for this, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u40	A respectable president. I just want to get my attention straight. Senators in the experience of those who have gone through this process, the Toll manager, the Landsbant and PGE, for example, and how grateful they were for having an umbilical examination in terms of gender differences. Starting with the pay was a first step. I say here and now, there's no one to say that we're here to solve everything, but we have to have the courage to take the first steps, and I'm grateful for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u41	Madam President. Here we are paying a vote for a bill which is certainly not a final solution, not a patent solution, not a answer to everything. But the difference in pay between the sexes is a social ills that we have lived in for centuries. Any movement to cope with this social ill is beneficial, positive. The bill may need to be adjusted better. Well, that's only for the better, then. The bill is a step in the right direction, in the important way, to deal with the social ills of the sexes. The fact that politicians abroad take special note of it and use it to describe their enjoyment of Vikings, perhaps the only thing they know from us Iceland, is something to be proud of, not to be used to play for, or laugh at, a minister. I'm celebrating and supporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u42	Madam President. I would now like to welcome it to begin by saying that the matter is actually more material discussion than it was given at 2nd. The case last night and last night. [[Foreground on: No.]] Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. [[Up front.]] I just want to decide how simple the matter really is. This has been as much pay since 2008 as it has been in progress for the last two, three years. There is little more to be done than to legalize an enterprise's obligation to work by it. It's well developed, it's tried for experiment. The legislation such as this is somewhat simple, about the timing of legalization and the induction of the standard. It has shown itself many times in the companies who have used it to be very effective. That is why I am so happy that we are achieving this success. It's not about the guise minister, it's simply about how we're dealing with our sexual pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u43	Madam President. I just wanted to talk about the experiences of those who have decided to use this standard but at that meeting also showed the importance of changing jobs to some categories and listening to the explanations of those working in those companies; they need to be wide and good knowledge of the cognitions available; especially about how similar jobs are handled by both sexes are considered indiscriminate. In the absence of a field of pro-contractions, we can hardly call it a professional assessment of professional value and how these organisations will become some kind of profession. [[The president calls.]] I just think this case needs to be won. I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u44	Madam President. The discussion of this matter at 2 Cor. Last night was just fine. We were here some of us, despite the fact that the hall was empty, and we took turns talking for an empty room. But what has been good in the handling of this case is that we have found that there will be new laws in place that are secret, where the public will not know what is in the law. This is because the law says that a standard is followed and the standard is not public. By accepting this case, there will be ten words of such law. I believe, Madam President, we are to reduce the number of such laws, but not the number of them. Open standards are better than closed standards. It is better when people can see how to follow the posts and then can apply them and not necessarily go through some strange loops. This case is not working well enough, and we know it because the Standard Council seems to have come up with a series of reports that it should open up without a future agreement with the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u45	A respectable president. After I've listened here at the highest, I can barely get a word. A minister puts himself on high ground against the Council because several members of the council see the reason to comment on the matter and to act as if it was just not discussed here. 86 talks were held in this hall. 86 talks for six and a half hours on this matter. That was arranged for seven meetings at the Senate Committee. There were 22 comments from a local specialist. The committee did something better. I'm going to pray to the highest. The minister to approach the matter with greater humility, knowing that he had returned badly to the council, and it is getting through to his mercy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u46	Madam President. The minister says it's not his business. In fact, it is time that will reveal it because it is quite clear that the matter came late to the council, a minister had broadcast it to the whole world that this was happening in Iceland. However, it is late for the council, and the council has to work very hard to get it better. Yet, it is still being completed, even though it still has a number of neglects. It's to be finished. This, of course, indicates that it is the minister's guise that really matters there. But okay, he says don't make a difference. Let's see what happens when people start to run into these poor, hired people, see if a minister is not ready to step in and cut off the habit. If not, it is quite clear that from the beginning to the finish, it is about the Minister of Igió.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u47	A respectable president. Stepping in the right direction does not minimize the steps we will take. This subject has drawn international attention, and it does so for a reason. We can and should be proud that we remain in the fight for international equality. We can and should be proud that we are taking major steps in the right direction in the fight against sexual rights of pay. We can and should be proud to serve as pioneers in the realm of equality. I encourage all of us to unite in the joy that we are once again taking steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u48	Madam President. What a happy day in the history of the Generals! Remuneration is an ugly spot in the Icelandic people as well as in all other communities. It is true that this bill will not completely be eliminated. There is a law against discrimination based on gender in the country. But now we are making sure that, by agreeing to this bill, there will be no discrimination in any company with a particular size. There's a giant step into the future, it's a step that we can all support this bill be proud of. What a happy day and a good day to start a beautiful summer!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u49	President. Of course, it is joyful when righteousness becomes greater. But it is not good if righteousness is based on another injustice, that is not good. To be honest, a minister must realize that when a matter enters the council and is not well designed, it is like hitting a wet rag in the face. Here are some people who have worked hard to fix the situation. We are truly going to get it through so that it would be well done. It is not advisable for the future to act this way toward the council. I think it's very important, when we're going through here, any matter it is, how wonderful and wonderful it is and how much better it makes summer, that we work it well. That's my only requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u50	Madam President. I think it's a good thing mainly because of two things. First of all, I believe this is a step forward rather than backwards. I like the talk that's going on here. When the case was presented, a lot of discussion was created. The matter has been in the discussion for a long time, and it has been very much forward. I think she was positive there. In the near future, of course, we will do better in this matter and enjoy it. That's exactly what's most important about this, the discussion, we're finally taking a serious discussion on this important matter and removing the systematic indiscriminate present. That's why I'm especially happy for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u51	A respectable president. V.E.G. A social minister was quick to show that his position in big matters depends entirely on where he sits. Among the first to criticize this matter and how it was conducted was a former employer. The Minister, the Organization for Employment. I don't think so, and I don't expect the highest. Ministers believe that this has been done because economic organizations oppose equality. The matter was not working well enough, and I'm not sure that it was done. That's at least It's obvious it's a big defect. It even sounds to me that the executives admit it. Then you wonder: " Is it really a good goal to be able to achieve it in an abusive way? I have to say specifically that I have been delighted to learn how the Piratars have spoken here today. I'm kind of gonna have to commend myself. Martyrs who came up here in line and are the voice of reason. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Despite the fact that Piratars are now a diverse group, a respectable president, they're on this case with everything. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I agree with all the points they have made in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u52	Madam President. I'm going to reiterate that this is a tiny step that I think is an improvement. I come up here for the words of the highest. A minister of finance who said it was a happy day, and it was a happy summer. And in the morning it shall be blessed day and night; and in the evening and in the virgin. It might now be that there would be some cloud in heaven later this evening. A senator must be cautious about the happy events that take place today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u53	A respectable president. I agree with the ones here that all steps toward greater equality are good steps. I think it's a step in that direction, so I'm gonna support this bill. I don't wear a barbecue in my head that this is some magic solution that changes everything, but all the steps in this direction are good steps. I can't put this conversation into words because of what I'm saying. paritaprevir Bjarni Halldór, son of Janusson, who rejoiced that we were finally discussing these matters. Sexual equality has been on the program for quite a long time in politics, a respectable president. Here in this hall, there have been many good steps to eliminate gender levels, to bring about perfect gender equality. While we are content with what we are doing today, let us not pretend that nothing has been done here before. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u54	Madam President. This bill has now been hailed by members of the Revolution. But none of our criticisms are spoken of as being about the transparency of this standard, nor is any capitalizing on this project being considered. So it's just creating a problem with the future that we don't know where it's going to be. I'd appreciate it if I'd rather come and talk about how wonderful all these things are. The senators show up here and explain their point of view to these criticisms. This bill is a whitewash. It's just restoration trying to take credit for the equal struggle. I think it's kind of stupid. I hope everyone sees through it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u55	Madam President. I wanted to thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppér for coming here and encouraging me to come back up and talk more. What I meant before, at last, was that I was primarily talking about the fact that all classes are taking an active part in the discussion and all major groups of the community in this discussion. I believe that's an improvement. I've noticed very much about this in my life that people are talking more about equality because the case has been presented. Well, that's my experience anyway. I wanted to make this happen, and I think it's a very good step and the discussion is taken because systematic discrimination has been there for so long as we know. I like it when people call attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u56	A respectable president. I'm just saying that for a long time it can be better, and that is true of the position of equality in this country as well as in other parts of the world. Every step in the right direction is a step in the right direction and should be welcomed. I don't see a reason why, as I believe, we are the most equalists and ambitious people that we Iceland are pioneers in this field and that we continue to do so, minimizing what is being tried to do that is positive. As I say, all steps in the right direction are steps in the right direction. For a long time, good things can get better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u57	President. I just wanted to say that one more time, you know? This bill is extolled and glorified by a senator, but it is by no means compatible with the criticism that has been presented. It would be nice to hear something other than praise, and someone would come up here and talk about what we're criticizing about the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u58	A respectable president. Here we are taking out the legal release of the standard which was proposed to the greater part of the General and Education Committee. In this regard, the best amateur for the minister's entire work in this case is because this proposal was made in consultation with the minister. We were in the meaning that consultations had been made with the Standards that it was permitted for us to establish a law that would be available to all. It was not so, we found that, after the Minister had been verbalized on e-mails, all members of the council were dragged into his argument and manager of the Council of Standards. Fortunately, the highest came. Minister of Standards, Þórdís Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, the rescue minister of equal rights, wore clothing on the weapons and on the Seat Council. So now we start a negotiation session between the two Ministers and Standards, which I hope will give back in the fall that the Minister enters the council with the news that the Council has opened the standard in peace, not with some ruffle of the minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u59	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate my opinion and our representative of the Left Green on the Environment and Transport Committee with this change proposal, which goes on the way of paying 650 million. K. in a special way out of an equation fund but another 650 billion. K. Applying the standard fund's distribution guidelines, if steps are taken in order to maintain the agreement made with rural areas due to the loss of income due to the highest decision. ... inthepresidentofthe Governments. We view this as just a step in that direction, and we urge the government to figure out a way to fully meet the agreement, and it will be done by some means other than the one used here to bring an ill health, i.e. not through an equation fund. [[Hv. The senator was in a vote. No one had asked for the word before the senator spoke up. (Pray forward.) Not before the deadline.]] Not before the specified deadline.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u60	A respectable president. I'm on a committee party with all the other members of the Committee on this matter. I'm on notice, on the other hand. The bad part is that I simply think that the rules of an equation should apply to this distribution of funds. If there was some sort of verbal agreement that it should be done in any other way, then the equation fund should not be involved. There's a law of salomon going some middle line that won't solve anything that I know. However, there will probably be some sort of litigation on both sides of large rural society and rich and those who think they're down, etc., so I think we're just seeing the beginning of this mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u61	A respectable president. I'm sure it would have been right to take this distribution, payment to a farm partner, in a different direction than the balance fund. For several years now, there has been a dispute between local members for how this is to be done. This is a law that is to some extent repetitive because of the distribution to be made in 2014, which we are putting in 2017. That's not a good thing to do. I hope the communities gather for what it's supposed to be, but it's obvious that the government will have to address it in any clearer way than putting laws on rural society and allow them to accept it by returning laws. Thus, to the most important extent, we are living by the candidates in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u62	Madam President. I missed an explanation for my vote when I sat by the adjustment proposal. We agreed to the CDC that assumed that these funds would be distributed, as originally planned. This is where local companies are adding income loss because of their housing payment in the last term. The original bill assumed that the improvements would be proportional to the income they would miss. Here, with the adjustment proposal, part of the budget is distributed to other rural partners, not after the loss of income, but from the formula of the equation fund. I can't live with that. But in view of the fact that it's taken three years to add this income loss to your community, and the General has missed it, I'm going to accept the new salomon sentence set here and vote with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u63	A respectable president. In an explanation of my vote, I'm going to state that this is not 'cause I'm a member of the council today that I put red on it, but I'd like to quote a meeting report from December 2015 in the European Union Management Board. There I read a book, along with three other directors. With the permission of the president, I'm going to quote the book: ▪ It is unfair that rural areas in the capital area had such a loss that it justifies this change of distribution regulations. In addition, in the long run, change provides a poor example to end income harvests in the capital area, much more than smaller rural areas in the country. Controls the role of an equation fund that is leveling the financial status of a community. This bill works in our opinion, we say there, and in my opinion, against that primary objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u64	Madam President. I think everyone was aware of why or why these payments were thought of, in order to improve farm society's loss of income as a result of the assessment of special property savings. It is clear that there are certain societies that have a more efficient share than others, but they will not be added to the others because the money was taken into the equation. I believe, though, that everyone was aware of the purpose of these improvements. So I'll be sitting by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u65	Madam President. This bill has been moved by what? The head of the Economic and Business Committee after it came in as a proposal from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that it would come in as a change in proposal for another bill. Thus, the lesser part was objected to as far as nonrelated matter was concerned. So the lesser part said it should be paid to the highest. The head of the Economic and Business Committee presented this case here in terms of certain privatizing refinements and changes in the terms of the purchase of the first estate. The members of the left greens will sit by us primarily because we were originally contrary to these laws when they were adopted here at the council, and we believe that they differ greatly from the people on income positions in support of the government in the purchase of the first estate. So we're against these laws and think they're a differential device, but we're going to sit by here because it's a fairly injudicious fixation of that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u66	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. The senators support this bill. However, we would have wanted to go further in the work of the bill now and to meet the individuals who lost their financial possessions and who have been stuck in a rented market since then. We support it, however, and welcome the steps it is taking to the highest degree. Economic and financial ministers working on a solution for this group. We would like to encourage him to board his sleeves and bring the bill of this material on the autumn days so that we can see action in behalf of the group as early as the autumn Summit. We're gonna go for a second. The senators support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u67	Madam President. I'm on the board of my section in this case, and I believe this bill is not a failure to fix the problem that exists. I said that in my speech on this subject the last time it was discussed. It takes real action on housing for young people in Iceland. The bill that was last approved here did not cause that problem to be solved. This reding will not either fix it so that I will sit by in this case and expect more people to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u68	Madam President. This is a very good case which greatly increases the transparency of corporate integration. The matter was very comfortable with the committee, and I thank them for their solidarity. The committee decided to make a change in the motion that this would go into effect by the next year. This is so that a balance may be made to finance the work of the head of the state in return for the 20 million. K. which are because of this. This is, I think, something we've got to sort out for last fall, but thank you very much for a good job in this case. [[The president would like to help people see that it is dangerous to lean over the vote table at his neighbors'[creature in a Senate hall.] and thereby turn their votes into red.]] and thereby turn their votes into red.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u69	Madam President. I think we're here to take a good step that will definitely lead to a slightly more healthy, open, and accessible business life. I remind the Senate, however, that we will take our stand on this in the fall and make sure that we do not weaken in this way the government taxpayer's office. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy came up. I also draw attention to the fact that it is a government bill that has a fine progress and is exemplary. I'm going to thank the highest. Secretary of finance, especially for the march. For example, it is unusual to feel that a minister is ready to meet a committee to discuss the bill of the chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-77.u70	A respectable president. This is a bill that aims to bring the election of foreign citizens to a situation similar to that in other parts of the North. The case was well discussed, by my knowledge, by the management and monitoring committee and was received there. I decided to turn the case over to the government, and I'd get along well with them.
