ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 353, for the use of antipsychotics and hypnotics in nursing homes, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u2	Borist has written a letter from Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, the 6th. Smoke. n., since it says she can't attend next week. So on Monday, May 8, at the General Assembly 3, a deputy of the left movement took up an offer of green, Álfheiður Ingadóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again. Borist has a letter from Smári Mccarthyr, 4th. Southk, where it is said that he cannot attend next week. So on Monday, May 8, at the General Assembly I, a deputy of Pirata's district list, Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again. Borist has received a letter from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 5th of them. Smoke. As it turns out, she can't attend next week. So on Monday, May 8, at Arms 1, a deputy of the Summit, Tynes Sif Tynes, became a member of the District. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not taken place before in the Council and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u3	Tynes Sif Tynes has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u4	V.E.G. President. I had the privilege of attending a professional meeting this morning. As we all know, a conference on the fishing system was established and that's well, that's good, and we all hope to do that. This isn't the first time that it's done. But that the causes of the matter have come to a point where people are trying to reduce matters manually by suggesting to the smaller part of the council, to retract matters associated with this category, I feel completely ignorant and unscheduled, and therefore I make strong comments about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u5	Madam President. Only one piece of snow has been removed. It is now a gathering of matters that have come very late to the council. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, felt that it is natural for her to be specifically asked to be removed from the program. And for what? Because they should be discussed on a committee appointed by the minister? Is it so that members of Congress, which is the understanding of the Senate, should be drawn into a den, put their tails down, and just wait for what was mentioned in town to decide? We view this matter as part of our discussion, and we demand that it be on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u6	A respectable president. I'll agree with two o'clock. The speakers who have come here for President's conference board that it's completely unacceptable to the highest level. Ministers can just appoint committees and then come with them in the government and please ask people to take their good things aside - just because they do. I thought it was a matter of Congress and that it was a legal obligation for members of Congress and the council to have a discussion on their case, but not that it would be appropriate. Minister every time. Pirat and I have one of those issues for discussion at the moment. The job board on fishing management, and I wish that the president will take the lead in a program such as any other matter, if desired, but not taken out of the program, simply because there is some committee working in town. I don't like it at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u7	A respectable president. I agree with the comments presented here. I think that now the head of the committee has simply gone ahead. It is excluded that therapy with Congress should be discontinued because of the beginning of a minister's employment committee. I don't really believe that anyone has made such a suggestion with full consciousness. Here we are referring to the Committee on Fish Fishing System, which is a minister's office, and it is good and important, but that does not mean that Congress treatment is postponed or closed or a case is set aside or something like that. I expect the President to review these matters with the administrative body, prospective head of the employment committee and the minister to handle this, and correct this and make it clear that the council continues its activities regardless of the committees acting on the behalf of each case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u8	A respectable president. I strongly object to this method that alongside the work of a fishing team, no other aspects of fishing therapy should be discussed. The lack of a number of cases for consultation is simply an illusion from the watchdogs of power to protect it from a highly advanced system and to hinder real improvements in the fishing regime.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u9	A respectable president. No one has to go to a grave about the policies of the Continental. We want the nation to receive the resource under their control and we want to take the first step now. There is no need for any effect on the work of the group that will now take on the cost. On the contrary, experience with an auction system should be valuable in our discussion, and we stress that this will not be hindered but will have its natural success.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u10	A respectable president. I kind of needed to be told twice because I was so surprised that it was a real idea that men had put out of real life. I've been wondering if the board of directors doesn't have to take some kind of course in Iceland's board of directors. I don't think he's connected with the Generals with a lot of respect. A greater proportion of the committees here are even against matters that come from the government and still suggest that they be accepted as unchanged. It is as if the administrative body did not fully understand what he is doing here in this council hall and in committees and what the real role and authority of the Generals are. The fact that a minister's office can be named and that it can only be considered on issues that come from the government opposition, it's simply completely out of the question. Is it so, then, that if a person wants to kill a minister's case, and an unpleasant matter is referred to there? This is totally crazy, Mr. Honorable President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u11	President. It is strange to be at a council hall today, where members of the council are talking about a very serious abuse of power from the greater part, and members of the Parliament are laughing at members of the council who criticize this practice. I kind of think it's a disgrace, Mr. President. But I just want to say that things cannot be arranged so that in advance the decision has been made by this committee. It is good to discuss these matters again in a town appointed by a minister, but this does not mean that there is an appointment or that there is a conclusion. It's not like that. Pirates and I demand that our case be restored to normal status at the council as well as to other matters that are on the job committee. I wish you would. The head of the committee realized that we can completely forgive some sort of Neo-military war in a committee government, but I hope so. The head of the committee sees his ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u12	Madam President. I'm sorry to hear that this discussion was on the pro board. I had to get out of a town just before the meeting ended, and obviously you can't leave a meeting, and then it's all going to get crazy. [[Up front.]] I think this must be some sort of first-class mistake. The head of the committee, and he realized that this is not the way we do it at the Council, of course we're going to let the matters that enter the council, whether they are members of the council or the executives, take their normal course through the Senate, mention and return to the council. I'm waiting with a case involving the fishing system, a change in beach fishing, being flexible, and coming in 12 days a month. I'd like to recommend it before the Senate finishes to discuss it, even if it's all. Of course, this is the way to handle all the issues that come in here, and they have the respect to go on a normal course, whether someone in the town is working or not, that is of no concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u13	Madam President. You don't quite know what to say. We are at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and we are on an important committee, such as a professional executive committee, and we will request leadership that the government will retract their case while someone on the Supreme Committee. We're talking about a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. Where's this coming from? This is so much endemis shit, nobody listens to this shit. Of course, it is proper to point out this point and to warn about such a road to democracy. That's some bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u14	Madam President. Yeah, you're right. I'm just a rookie at the council, that's a good thing. I had my death, but I didn't have this reaction. I thought this matter had been discussed in peace and in peace. I asked this morning at a meeting of the professional trade committee whether the committees viewed the order of this transverse committee yesterday to influence the progress of those involved in the fishing system and to be discussed in the job trade committee. This was just a peaceful discussion. It was no requirement on my part. That was not even a suggestion on my part. This was my question to those whose case involved the committee. This was discussed in peace with the committee this morning. Then everybody goes all of a sudden, at least I get. Then there are slogans, some declarations of abuse of power, and I don't know what or what. It was just a question for the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u15	Madam President. I think the head of a professional car committee has been very well aware of what it was like this morning. I'm coming up here to do my thing because I hear what I'm talking about. Councilmen, e.g. From the Pirates, they say it even had. ... wasancommittee from the Ministry. The second thing is, I want to point out and warn that the parapolitan committees speak down that I ordered yesterday. I call attention to the fact that there is not a switch between government and government, all classes coming to the table. Then, well, I have been advised that the government's side has a share of the committee. I hope that men will assume that they will work on the case in the long term with the overall interest of both the seabed and the community in terms of that, but don't panic, as I think something is going on here. I agree that it is important that the matter of Congress, whether of government or government opposition, be treated in Congress. [[The president calls.]] I'd like, for example. It's fine if it's from what? paritaprevir My daughter, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, on the beach fishing program, would be treated as a matter of opinion. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It will be useful to us in all the development and policy development of the long-term article.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u16	Madam President. Well, I guess it's a decent landing in this case. It is not yet creating a dangerous example, which the lesser part saw understandable that it was possible to be created, i.e. that a minister appointed some committee on a matter, not a matter of concierge, as if a case brought up by members of the Council and members of the Parliament. That's how it sounds. The head of the professional road committee and the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers say that it was not the point. Then we expect matters about the fishing system that come from the smaller part of the employment committee to be passed by the Chairman of the Committee, to be set up and discussed. And everybody's happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u17	A respectable president. That's fine, and I appreciate it. The head of the pro board to come up here and explain that it was not his intention to take these matters off. However, it is perfectly normal for us in our memory to worry about such things. At the beginning of a council, a medical program was submitted on the part of the council. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter on behalf of us progressives. Then the administrative part responded by running to the finish line. There's no need to contribute, because the government has such a case, even though it has not yet been received, either in the Senate or in the council. It may now be some newcomer, new government, and new senators who are not familiar with the work being done here. But it is perfectly normal for us to respond and receive clear answers. I just want to thank you for getting them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u18	A respectable president. Today, the newspaper newspaper reports that surgeons at the Land Hospital spend too little time at a local hospital, thus endangering the safety of patients. Another article in the same issue says that Kári Stefánsson: If serious problems arise, patients are being sent to a Hospital. I'm gonna ask you how does it work, then? Do the experts take the patients to an ambulance? I guess they're not at Land Hospital. They're probably somewhere else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u19	The President reminds me of why. The Senator is here to speak to the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u20	It's about time, it's okay, don't worry. Because of the serious tip the surgeon brings in on the News magazine today, I want to complain that the highest. If the President now understands what I am going to do, he will not be here in unsubstantiated requests. In the past few days, there have been very many serious cases, but I believe that far too little time is given in unprepared queries these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u21	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Transport and District Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u22	Madam President. It was here last Thursday, quite upset at the General Assembly, when members of the Parliament learned that there was a place to unite the National Racial School of the Yearsl and the School of Technology in Iceland. We had quite a long battle under the supervision of President at the time, I'm going to stay with you for a while. A member of the board who participated in the discussion, that we should not be surprised, would be shown in the government's covenant that the government was interested in a wide variety of business forms. There's two things I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister. He is the taskmaster of the government, and he deals with it with the council. It may not be quite reasonable to expect communication duties to be carried out by referring to the terms of a government Convention on a wide variety of business plans. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it so that according to that statement, we can conclude that the government plans to go very far in the privatization of public service during this term? Is the line that has been provided for further privatization in health care, education systems, transport exclusive? Is it the policy we should read from the government covenant, which is very difficult to read because it is highly loaded with spoken language and is difficult to distinguish from a vision or a future policy? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on that. There were big words for more consultation. At the top. Minister knows that the highest. The Minister of Education has nothing to do with this before the council. We know that. On the other hand, there was a very large expression of better understanding, transparency, and good governance, as the same government covenant says. Tells you the highest. Minister to the government, with one man greater part and with the authority of my part of the voters, can't do better to consult the World Council on big decisions, even if it's not required to legalize? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u23	Madam President. Hv. A member of the body here called for a distinction between a public service paid for by public donations as a means of profit and nonprofit schemes. If you can find any business with some kind of profit plan, you will suffer. A senator in general objecting to their public service, sounds to me, but in terms of institutions, organizations, some sort of association with an unpublished public service, I have understood why. A senator so that he does not generally violate it. Isn't Technical School such a phenomenon? Isn't the Academy of Technology largely out of public money without any form of profit? So why do you have to go down? A senator who has spoken like this and made a big difference between the two, also against a school with a business arrangement that can take on increased roles? Where are we primarily trying to advance secular education in this country? Should we not keep our eyes focused on the quality of our ministry, on how the young people's Bible educational careers are being made, on whether we are getting better opportunities to be competitive with other nations? Doesn't it matter if we're here with sick business modules? Hasn't the Minister of Education spoken of that the business modules involved here can be more effective in achieving these common goals that I believe we have by agreeing with one another? Or to the business structure, form of the company, or to the person behind the Technical School, which may be part of the labour market in Iceland, to control everything? [[The president calls.]] I say, let us look at the results, what happens in school itself, and how they benefit the kids in school. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u24	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister is still in my last request to ask, which was about money from the health - care system. I just had a simple question. Hv. U.S. council members heard of the arrangement for changing business plans at the High School at the U.S.A. I asked the highest. Prime Minister... [[Up front.]] Yes, he's being transferred to private business and this is public service. V.E.G. The prime minister has to relax here for a while. They're feeling the highest. Prime Ministers in the name of transparency and good governance as this government as supreme. The prime minister, especially announces, and speaks specifically, is this the way of matters? On the other hand, I call out if there's any forward view of this government to do this more fully. It's not about the quality of high - quality Technical School, nor is it about weak operating units and the highest. Prime Minister knows that. It is not as if the Annual Multiway School with its 900 students is a weak core unit that needs to unite other schools. There is a work of great good work and good things. We are asking here a simple question: Is there a future? It's under the roof. Is it really not natural for the prime minister to have more consultation in the light of that government? [[For example, answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u25	Madam President. Hv. A senator calls looking at school in the Theocratic Ministry School for personal development, an amazing approach. Hv. A senator himself signed a contract with the Technical School for the work being done there. [[Up front.]] This is where you only have to hold back. Regarding the fact that there is a large increase in the privatization of public services, the answer is simply: No. On the other hand, it is quite strange to approach this issue based on the fact that public service is being preeminent because it is not. [[Up front.]] It's completely off-limits. Senator, that's the problem. What we want to do is we want to maximise the use of taxes and we want to watch the outcome. We want to watch the patient's part, how they get out of the ministry, and we're doing the same thing in education, just like that. When she herself signed a contract with the School of Technology, a senator did as a minister. In view of the lack of consultation, the matter is being examined in the Ministry, and no final decision has been made. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure the Minister will explain the case to a committee at the council that has been made. Right? [[The president calls.]] I think this talk sounds like a huge hole to me about not speaking to people about decisions that have not yet been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u26	Madam President. The most important project that stands before us is to decide with a financial plan how we will defend all our country's taxes for the next five years, sort it down, put it down to us. The decision is impossible to make in a enlightened way, as the plan has been submitted to the council. It is impossible to see in the financial program what is expected to use almost all these government funds. This information has not been accessed by members of Congress or fasting committees as to what can be done with all this funding, what to do with it, what is planned to do with it. Without this information, it is impossible to make an informed decision as to whether a financial plan is successful for the country and whether tax dollars are handled well. In spite of the problems in the council and the General's office, lack of communication to the general and public in this financial program is almost complete. The numbers are available, but we are not allowed to access them on this decision-making. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, Benedikt son of Jóhannesson, who has spoken of opening the books of the State: Has the highest. For example, do financial ministers have access to the information that lays the basis for this program? If not, will he not request such access? If a minister has that access, or when he gets that access, will he at the same time grant access to us members of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u27	Madam President. Hv. A senator asks what to use the money in. There is a methodology in which it says that instead of presenting one of the budgets, it can be said that the laws of the State in three ways are admissible. For one thing, a financial policy that puts forward the broad framework for saying who should be in charge of the budget, how to pay off the debt, and what the scope of the State is. Actually, it'll only be added to the next financial policy. Then there's a plan where the funding is divided into lawsuits. I can hear a lot of them. Congress that they want to go further on the financial agenda and change quickly to individual matters, but that is not the meaning of the financial agenda. Rather, it is the point of putting space around the lawsuits so that financial matters can be made possible, in view of this strategy that, of course, will follow through, to say how individual lawsuits will be divided. This is where a specific space is being created permanently. Of course it is, as it were. In his question, a senator indicates that the Ministry that offers suggestions on the frames bear in mind how this has been in the past, which plans are unique. It is presented in the thick financial report. But it's not the idea to put in five years'budget. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u28	Madam President. I've often described my joys with the highest. The secretary of finance, when he has come up and given clear answers. That's not why I'm going to say hello right now. These are not clear answers. Do ministers have access to this information? He nods, he has access to this information. Then I want to know if we at the council that needs to make a decision too. I understand that this is a box, I understand exactly what this is all about. They're putting big frames on it, and it's getting tighter, and inside that frame, we're going to put budgets in the fall. This is how it's supposed to work. But we do not know what this line is based on. What are some of the tasks included in this frame? What can we do, what to do with what is inside this frame? We're supposed to accept a frame, but we don't know which evidence is behind it. The secretary has access to these data. We don't have access to them. If we do not have access to these data, we cannot make an informed decision about a financial plan, that is impossible. That's what we're asking for. This has been the subject of repeated discussions in committees. That's what we want. We feel that it is proper for the council to receive this information in order to make an informed decision. [[The president calls.]] The question to the minister is, Will the minister, if we ask in a formal inquiry, give us access to this information?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u29	I've got to feel bad. A senator by the fact that when I nodded, I was ignoring the question but not because I had access to these documents, cut out of extraordinary plots. [[Up front.]] I don't have these data, and in itself, if we start ordering it, we're about to ruin the process with a financial plan because that's where we're talking about the broad frame. Of course, we know how the money has been spent so far. Everyone knows pretty much what the budget is about to do. [[Up front.]] What? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u30	According to the president, it is the senator or minister who stands in the House of II who has become and encourages senators to respect that order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u31	Yes, I thank the President for that. I think it's actually damaging the ideologies behind this if we start thinking this as an extraordinary trust in the case, so I'll answer the question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u32	A respectable president. It is my opinion that financialism was too rigid, and the whole government voted against it. Now we have a financial program dedicated to this rigid policy. There's no income. Thus, the government is concerned with paying on roads and raising a value tax in the tourism sector or part of it. Both of these proposals have been rejected by the public in the country because they were not discussed before elections. They're just coming on schedule right now. Now we're getting reports on the value tax in the tourism service that the fallout for Iceland tours is beginning to fall. Travel halls come here and say that many people think that the land is expensive, that it is more convenient to go elsewhere, that the food supply has been received, and that the news is heard every day that building has been delayed. I think this is going to be more in the country than the capital area. Also, I don't think there is any question about the fact that tourism is one of the greatest support the country has ever had in recent years. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance two questions: Does he believe that the proposed increase in value tax will contribute to the greater distribution of tourists across the country, thus ensuring an increase in the country's environment? At the same time, there was an increase in the value of extra taxes in the tourism service, including of the highest. Minister, should take so-called counter measures. We're close to the council, and we're going to have to vote on the budget and this proposal. So I ask: What is involved in these counter measures? Is that an analysis? It was criticized that no or little analysis had been made when the increase was applied. The analysis of what counter measures must be taken, how high they are, and how much of the increase in income that the government intends to take takes back to counter measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u33	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In fact, I disagree with his opinion that the public reject a valuable tax on travel. I think there's general support that there's a simple tax system here, that all articles are in the same tax environment and that it's natural that the article that boasts is in the same tax environment as other articles. This is in harmony with the sense of justice for most people. Hv. A senator first asks if a planned increase would contribute to the distribution of tourists across the country. The answer is no, I don't see that it will have the effect of spreading more to tourists than it is now. Secondly, why? Senator on counter measures. V.E.G. A travel minister and I have met at meetings, and I have also met with traveling leaders, both national and international, I have met especially the heads of travel in the East, where we have discussed possible marketing measures, presentations, building ups in individual places, etc., which I believe, regardless of this change. It is remarkable to learn how many believe that this possible change in the future has had an effect on the fact that I now have less orders, which I find very difficult to understand. However, it has been proposed as a group of travel ministers, and I will appoint for the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u34	A respectable president. We may disagree about many things, me and the highest. Ministers, but I can hardly imagine that he would not agree that the international travel service has rejected these ideas, including the U.S. Due to lack of consultation, analysis, and lack of any idea of the consequences of this increase in the whole article, especially those in the country. And since we're talking about simple, it was simple in the last term to put all the tourism in the same step. Is it simple that there will now be a single restaurant sale and a room in another? I think it would be late called a simple one. Instead, it was used as evidence that it would need one step in order to reduce the risk of tax fraud, which could then increase now because it is not simple to keep it in two steps. And, of course, because we have to vote on a budget soon, it is not enough that in the next few days or weeks, we will be assigned to a group that will discuss market campaigns to secure tourists. That's right, it has to be done regardless of whether there's an increase in the value tax or not. [[The president calls.]] However, there must be a clear objection, based on the analyses proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, due to the increase in the value of the tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u35	Madam President. Now, at the beginning of my speech, I'd like to say that I really don't like what it's like. A senator attacks travel services and accuses her of planning to cheat on his tax because this arrangement will be changed. I think in travel services, they are generally honest people who want to understand the taxes that are placed on the article. When these actions were performed, detailed diagnostic measures were performed. I want to point 'em. A senator for an article I wrote at the Core right now this weekend, a long, detailed article, on the merit tax business. It can also be read on the Ministry of finance. That's where even the two of them come from. until that transport, representing 8% of gross domestic product, paid only about 3% of the cost tax per year. I think it's very normal for her to pay her share, i.e. about 8%, and that's gonna happen after the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u36	Madam President. What a fine sensation is endurance and strength. On the other hand, political trapezes usually revolve around subterfuges or attempts to blackmail policy makers. The budget of 2017/2021, by permission of the President, says: At the same time, significant savings in the high school system are expected to occur due to reduced study periods from four years to three. The plan allows for all the savings that will fall from the shortcut to remain within the system and to increase the high school level even more. However, a new financial program says, with permission of a president: As in the previous financial programme, considerable savings are expected to be observed in the secondary school system because of reduced learning time to study the student test from four years to three and this savings is reflected in reduced donations to the topic field. Clearly, then, high school has been conned to have this road under the pretext that it should be strengthened. In reality, this was a long time, for the new financial program says, "on page." 265 if the highest. A minister does not know it by heart, by subsiding the bite of quality, academic offer, and teaching equipment. Of course, I realize that there has been a change in government. But it's got the highest. Ministers now finally managed to turn a great brother down to the dust and let the Independence Party swallow this dramatic turn of motion into the jury? I'd like to know if a minister feels that this is a prerogative with the schools, if he's proud of it, if he's okay with his share and the schools in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u37	Madam President. It's nice to hear from a little brother how he views the conflict with a big brother. I have to say exactly as I am; I have not changed my mind in this matter. I believe it's right to promote high school. We do so in this financial program by promoting contributions for each student during the course of the week. It is possible for each person to calculate, and there is nothing to be debated over and over again. That's what we've been talking about when we were discussing this with the previous guys. of this synonym. Hv. A senator does not have to doubt that. They are expanding high school by adding contributions to each student each year. It is only natural that when you reduce your amount of years in high school, it goes down somewhere. There's some savings coming up. That's normal. Rather, it is that behind each student is now more capitalized.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u38	Madam President. This is just wrong. A prior financial program assumed that these funds would remain in the home. Today, however, this budget is heading toward 2,202 million. K. I talked about it earlier, that in the same financial program as the highest. One minister, mentioned earlier, is that there is a lack of money to take in quality, education, equipment, and equipment. V.E.G. A minister must simply do better than that. I'm asking, is it the highest? A minister has given up on his project to finance public school and public service, if that is the case? And should this leak into personalization in the name of no one else can handle it? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u39	Madam President. It's fun when a man makes a show here in a speech chair. But, hey. A senator asked if I was proud to make a contribution for each student. Yeah, sure, I'm proud of it. I'm proud that the schools will now be better equipped.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u40	Why, then, did you write in a financial program that you couldn't do?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u42	President reiterates that it's that senator or chief. A minister who stands in the House of II, who has become and prays. Once again, members of the body of elders respect that rule and do not converse with a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u43	It is only so that these contributions are being raised to each student. Of course, it must be better for the students that there's more money behind each other. The house is not being fortified, not some personal institution, but it is being a step toward better study. For who? For the students. It's not about what shape it is exactly, I'll totally agree with it. The key is whether or not students will be better ahead, and they will be better after this new financial agenda is adopted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u44	Madam President. I think it's right to continue with financial and economic ministers. I want in the highest. Ministers on their status that the community has not been agreed on to take over pension bonds, as arranged, and was the basis for the agreement on the new community pension arrangements and associated with an even greater matter involved in the equalisation of pension rights and pension rights in the country. The communities joined in this cooperation in good faith, and surely the State contributed largely to the financial support that this could become a reality. Part of this matter was that the State would take over the Penitentiary of Nurses, run over the responsibility of rural society in a similar way that had previously been done to the Penitentiary commitments of automatons. There I suppose the knife stands in the cow, and society is not aware that the state is now ready to hold this agreement on the basis of the understanding that they put into it. The new system should be valid within a few days, and I think it's a very serious situation if you don't negotiate in the weeks ahead. What's going on? the current financial and economic secretary, who is expected to have stepped into the situation, not much bigger on his level, about this? Can he assure us that this matter will be over in the next few days and that the state will be completely in full effect with what it promised its rural society in its own time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u45	Madam President. The point is, I think, an agreement was written under October 28th. Then, on December 31, 2015, the state was spoken of taking over 97% of commitments due to certain institutions. As a result, treaties were resolved, and they signed, with two societies, i.e. Aranesp and Akureyri, which were consistent with this agreement. In time, a representative from Acdéri comes forward thinking that it is not normal for various reasons, that it did not really do the right thing. In spite of December 31, 2015, I thought that it was normal - because during the hearing of a bill on the matter made after this agreement, the date was 31 December 2015 changed to 2016 - to the same date with the local community. I told my rural society that I thought it was fair and normal and that it would be indiscriminate to change it. I believe that this too was done in general according to what was decided at the council on commitment to the pension fund. But, of course, the State is behind what was signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u46	Madam President. Well, that's it. One of the elements of this case is this date. We will find out how it changed while the bill was being discussed at the council. Now we're the highest. Of course, a minister would not try to negotiate this here and arrange it, but I have heard another story about the dispute between him and his approach to the way the state wants to deal with it, and he insists on having it settled in his own way, which is to pay the commitments of the bridge, the local pension fund, instead of taking over the commitments themselves. And why might this matter? Yes, because taking over commitments also override their future trend, but by paying a deposit level into the fund, they may get worse and the risk is on the farm. This is the version of the case I've heard from people who've been in this from the local community, and I feel sorry for it. I think there's something we have to do with the material agreement so we can make it happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u47	Madam President. You're right next door. Senator it's at least One community understanding that this date is not important. It is the government's responsibility for the future. However, it's not allowed, like cot. A senator knows as a former financial minister, how to take responsibility for the State in this way. Therefore this is because it is 97% of the commitment, as it is calculated in the appointed day of the agreement. I'm aware that it went through a process where people fought about 1 percent and so on, but like a whale. A senator says that this program is not a stage to negotiate. In fact, I think the deal is finished, and I think it's normal that the state will live with it like any other deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u48	Madam President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Jón Gunnarsson, also a regional minister of transportation and rural management, had a built-in structure in the region. All groups spoke of the need to promote infrastructure in the country before the last election and that there was a significant need to increase the budget for road transport and for other long - term means of transportation. The cumulative need for maintenance due to surgery during the past few years is assessed by road type at 60 billion and has been observed by road manager to see that the road system is severely damaged. If maintenance costs were to be considered only a year, that would be 9.5 billion. The cumulative need for investment during the past few years may be estimated to be about 500 billion, with a ratio of 1% since 2009, relative to the domestic product. Money is lacking for the docks and maintenance of airports. For example, I would like to mention that the House Air Force Airport, which is a reserve airport for Ísafjörður, is not used because of lack of maintenance. Investments at other airports also fail because of lack of maintenance, but these investments should be used to strengthen tourism and rural development. Districts and crossways are often in poor conditions and transportation in entire areas of the country decades behind transport that is considered acceptable in the 21st century. I'm not going to start listing all the damaged areas of the country or the new projects that have been on the road too long but not being carried out, since that would be unstable. The areas and areas of poor transport know where the shoe is failing, and the road has all mapped it, sending out a call to the government for a large amount of transport money. True, the happy event ahead of us is at last to begin working on the construction of an animal funeral procession that has been waiting for far too long, and this certainly should be a cause for rejoicing. It is not just a matter of getting between roads, but it is a good means for health care, employment, education, culture, and social life, and for all the normal quality of life required for the inhabitants of the country in modern times. Lack of strong infrastructures has resulted in positive urban development and a wide range of employment tools in the region for cleaning. Sadly, many areas live in the face of a growing number of people who need to respond by building infrastructure and equal housing conditions. Shorter distances between habitats create better habitats and support for other infrastructure. If there is a real desire to make the country competitive for people and businesses, good transportation is one of the basic building blocks of success. The growing number of tourists in the country has made it more stressful and more difficult to break down the road system, and accidents are widespread, and many of them are dangerous because of poor roads and more dangerous simple bridges. The palms of your hands need to be spitd. Then I'm talking about maintenance of roads, new projects, public transportation, air travel, portworks, telecommunications and construction of high - speed connections with all the people of the country. The additional 33 billion for transport in 2017, the five - year financial program, is actually adding only 1 billion to the framework of making it permanent. I'd like to lay down for the highest. The minister of the following questions: How does the construction within financial policy and financial programs of the government extend over the next few years? What will be the priorities for the next few years? Will there be effort to speed up transportation, such as road, ports, airports, electrical transport systems, and high - speed connections to all the people of the country? And finally: Will the parts of the country that are at the end of the metropolitan population be given the priority of the structure? Economic planning does not seem to take into account the economic or social status of the part of the country and the dangers of household development in many areas where significant injections of transport and other infrastructure are not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u49	A respectable president. There is much to it. A senator, that will reduce the wide range of shoes in the interior structure of the country. Whether and how infrastructure is included in the government's financial policy and financial programs before the council is asked. You can probably debate whether and when you can say that there will be a new challenge in these matters, but it will not be seen that there is a significant increase in donations for these groups this year from what has been. In fact, one of the biggest increases, not the most, as you would like to see, is just this group of paintings from what has been before. This year, the amount of donations we are raising to transport this year is a far cry from the previous level. It forces the wide shoe, as I said, and can look at these projects and see that it will be a real challenge to deal with getting our tails, as I have said before. That is why we are considering possible other ways in this regard. Of course, the priority order for transportation will take into account the transport programmes laid before the council in the next session. So it is the council that will put the lines in that subject. Communication has set the course to 2020, where nearly all of the country's homes are expected to become fiber - optics. This is an enormous and important case and will transform habitats across the country and conditions for the development of jobs. It is of utmost importance to be looked forward to when we consider that the infrastructure of creating opportunities and scope for the development of employment structure in general, because infrastructure is in hand with trying to create the right conditions for the structure of jobs. In the policy of innovation in Icelandic employment, a vastly greater proportion of things were reached at a council where I and including myself were held. Yeah. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir signed a common committee opinion. It also discusses the importance of this built - in structure to build - up conditions, structure and creation for new and varied employment opportunities in view of the fact that we realize that the sector that has been predominantly built up in recent decades, and even centuries, sea fishing and agriculture will not play this role in a comparable way during the coming period, where much fewer hands are making much more valuable valuable possessions. It is, therefore, a pleasure to look to the highest level of work. Industrial Minister has been launching on e.g. electricity in rural areas and the construction of the electrical distribution system, an enormous part of this. In effect, there are three main features when it comes to the infrastructure, that is, of course, the transport system, the communication system, and the electrical network. It is one of the factors that we can provide for the end, as far as it goes, by means of telecommunication, which lacks a lot of other factors, both in the electrical and transport systems. I think that if we look at the projects that are waiting for us in this area, looking to traffic security and what happened. A senator earlier noted that the pressures that have been put on so many things that have occurred even among them. Because of the increasing tourism current in the country, it is important for us to realize that even if donations from a government fund would be greatly increased from today's time, far beyond this huge increase that took place between years, we are faced with a huge task. I think it is important for us to deal with this objective discussion, how we can approach it in a highly large, financing project that could make it possible for us to place donations from the state funds to further projects in the capital area and throughout the country with the objective of making serious effort in this system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the antiquated discussion. How can it be during these empty - ups of time that we do not trust enough wood in our country? The fear of the government at work is compared to absolute, yet the same government in the two years is planning to reduce the value of extra taxes. The last government then stated that the economic situation was so difficult to trust in. When can you trust the infrastructure? We've had an unprecedented number of tourists coming to us. Still, roads, toilets, observation and shelters are without cost and are still being worked out as if there are 300 of you. a man and nothing was wrong, although in reality we have doubled the crowd and thus have broken down. Transport is not the only Polish to be included in this extensive discussion. How could it be that the government is now planning a energy exchange policy, and within these ships it is supposed to be linked to electricity? The reality is that three phases of electricity are luxury in the scattered regions of the country. True, it is a beautiful promise in a financial program to identify the need for three - phase electricity, but that project has no money. A respectable president. A beautiful political promise, with no money involved, is nothing more than a man's speaking ability. The need for recovery of electricity and electrical distribution systems is decades old. The matter has been discussed. The real need is for action, not more cubic meters of paper on the subject. What you need is people working to dig ditches. So I'll direct three questions to the highest level. Transport and Regional Minister: What funds are designed to rely on electricity compression? Are there plans to increase the maintenance of road construction on free break? Is there any intention of increasing the level of construction and view?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion. The financial agenda involved in this council includes considerable priorities for welfare and priorities, so that not all aspects of the government can be prioritised at once. Nevertheless, I can see that in the next few years, we can well build a good road system. If we look to the southwestern and neighboring areas, I can see that we can drive from the Cheflavor airport and the east from Selephos and the north from the citynes, even further, on roads that are equal to what we know from other countries, twice roads, or so - called 1+1 roads that cannot be planted. To that end, we must have the courage to seek out other means of financing. The discussion is to take place right here, on the southwest corner. I'm not necessarily saying it's as relevant when it's strictly for transportation, for repairs of tightly-developed and complex bridges, or for the treatment of the normal two lanes. On the other hand, financing at the southwest corner can just remove money and make it possible for us to build up a modern means of transportation in other parts of the country that I rest my mind on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u52	A respectable president. Thank you, Prime Minister. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for starting this conversation. It's very important, and I thank the Minister for the answers, as far as they can go. We have spent the last few weeks at the council discussing one of the most important documents proposed by every government, which is a national financial program. How Would You Answer? the importance of building wood after the thin years we've all gone through after a collapse. It must be acknowledged that going through the plan has been disappointing, as well as a focus on the lack of overall vision and policy in the setting of priorities when it comes to infrastructure. The minister handles the local government, and he is on transportation, so it is important to consider geographic matters. One of the things I would like to encourage the Minister to consider that the next time the national budget shows that the local community, especially the national part of the country, will be supported by providing together, and that will be part of the budget, data on the infrastructure and investments planned for each part of the country. It must be so, though we have severe expansion in the southwest corner and may need to reduce only the investments we face, the situation may be quite different in other parts of the country, such as Northeast or Northwestern politics. Therefore, it is important that financial programs reflect this, so that those areas of the country do not need structure because it is simply building too much hotels or possibly even public buildings on the southwest corner. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u53	Mr. President. This is an informative debate in the removal of financial programs. Before the election was even called election election elections. There was no group left behind when the promises of marvelous building projects came about if they came to power. It was quite surprising, then, when the government's treaty was introduced, there was very little idea of income to follow through on it. A month later, however, an idea was made that the roads would be financed, the development would be primarily in the southwest corner, but there is no obvious idea yet. Next came, all of us unawares, most of them travel services and members of the Independence Party, a plan to raise the value tax during travel. In fact, this change is one of the main executives of the financial program, although it may not have more part in the council. In fact, this will not be evident until six months after financial planning is expected to be adopted in spring. It's kind of ironic. It would have been a minimum requirement when a person goes into such a harvest that she had followed a plan to protect and divide, and that it should then be used in the construction of infrastructure through the country because of being either defective, dangerous, or decomposed. Of course, there is no clear plan to deal with this in the program, and it is not surprising that the people of the country are just going through the trouble. The financial program also presents a very naive view of reality. Most likely, the claim that freedom is the opposite of taxes. It also shows that the structure is the opposite of saving, and it is a very foolish conclusion. In fact, there may be a chance that in the necessary structure of grassy, maligned, and dangerous wood, there may be considerable savings in the future. [[The president calls.]] And now it's the government's job to pull their pants and do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u54	A respectable president. This is a need and a good discussion. When it comes to building structures in the country, what is said in a chamber by the councilmen is of little importance to them, the plans for the government and the Supreme Court are of little importance. Minister will work on funding for these matters. These plans are clearly seen in the financial program for the next five years. Who better to appreciate the need for built-in structures in the country than the Union of Iceland? I don't know, at least I'm going to look at the Community's review of the budget. What are the emphasis? By permission of the President: Neither can it be said that the development of financial programmes, including the fifth chapter of the programme, has been made available to local financial institutions. ... Long-term application contributions are not included in the budget. It follows how important it is for the progress of any part of the nation's initiatives to support longer-term funding. And the housing issues that may vary considerably when it comes to infrastructure: ▪ The brochure on housing is of little value and does not reflect the importance of this group of languages, which requires coordinated action on the part of the state and rural society. In other words, weighed, measured, and found little. There is very little to be found in the financial structure program. V.E.G. In the past, a minister said that when transportation takes place, the plans for transportation would be carried out, of course. It would be a new thing, must be said at the present time. It is not as if it were done with the most successful consistent transport plan, but it was thrown out of the window when the money had to be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u55	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for bringing these good things to the attention and for the clear answers of the minister here at the beginning of the discussion. This is a group of subjects that all of us are interested in, and this has been made clear in recent discussions at the council and in weeks. It is of utmost importance, as the minister and executive came in, that we need to make a significant contribution to transportation. There have been too little transport contributions in recent years, and it is of utmost importance, especially in the country, to drive and participate in infrastructure and create the economy and the people in the country with improved transport opportunities. I also agree that good transportation is part of a good health system, something of utmost importance. In fact, all of us are very close to one another and on the same page in these matters. We will see to it that there is a limited amount of money on transport, although it is an excellent push in the years ahead and has been this year, above what has been, but it is clear that we need much more money to do so, and we need to support the minister in getting more money. That is why I feel that we need to take the discussion to the end of the tunnel as a means of subsidence to finance buildings and bridges and tunnels. We need to see if there is a total of 3 to 4 gallons [3 to 4 L] of fuel savings. Would we not like to look at such a way that could provide better space for further transport projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u56	President. Thank you. An abbreviation, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for this discussion. Other parts of public service have been taken to the countryside. It is government custody to leave money with this assignment. The structure of the infrastructure depends on it. The increase in transport budget, the highest. The minister mentioned here is hardly in the nose of cats, and in addition to that, local societies are not benefiting from their tourism to meet the tremendous challenges it brings. A financial strategy enables economic capitals and rural areas to fight like dogs over one and the same stings so as to be able to stand for construction and to improve national services. It's under the roof. Ministers, would it be proper to set up a kind of hunger between the terms? At the same time, the government says, "It's never been better. If so, Mr. President, let's begin to pay with all this gain and to build wood instead of endangering lives by taking a trip like a Smokey Way. To meet these challenges, we must work together. We build our infrastructure for the Icelanders, and we do it with that objective, so I refer to a financial program, to improve the country's standard of living throughout the country. It's under the roof. Ministers to a financial program provide this vision for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying the highest words. Minister, we have a huge project ahead of us. No matter where you go, all roads are ruined or badly damaged and the exception of finding a road that does not require much extra maintenance. It is also clear that in order to reverse this trend, the overall analysis and development programmes need to be available, not only in road areas, but also in ports, airports, energy distribution, electricity development, housing issues. It's nice to mention here the beacon I remember writing an article about in March 2013, the end of the 2020 project, when it is completed. But that's not how I listed all the other projects. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Will they see the location of a community plan? I know that not all of these things are being heard by the Ministry. Minister. Will there be an analysis and development plan for the distribution of electrical energy, on national housing issues, on electricity triples? When's the groundwork? It is clear that it is difficult to control a country where there is a high level of expansion and high economic growth without getting out of control. But it is also clear that the spell and economy are not the same everywhere. It is simply now an opportunity for major development in many of these areas, infrastructure, in many parts of the country where the effects of the expansion would be much less than in the capital area. So, of course, it's strange that we're discussing a double case here - maybe not peculiar because the need is so high that we double the road here. All I know is that the plans of the rural areas in the capital area on the city line are up to 70 billion and 35 of them are due to come from the state. I'd love to hear the highest opinion. It's up to a minister, whether he's going to get it into a five-year financial program. A respectable president. There's a huge project ahead of us. It is not the main thing to start taxing even those using the roads. There are other ways to make income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for starting this discussion and the highest. Minister for the participation. During springtime, all people may be alive as they travel and fly, although they may remember those living in pits and freezing dirt roads. In many places, there are circumstances in my district, the Northwestern district, in this way. I don't think I'm saying anything at all. Minister no news, but there's a riot. It has been observed that improvements in wood were one of the priorities of all classes in the autumn. We can earn what we can do, but where is the effective will and the will of the administrations? The people are ready. Will the government answer the call? The work is much smaller and larger. A large number of prisoners are caught in 60 Western Roads in a Rholah carpet. You have to finish your fishie and get on with your team right away. Of course, the light there is environmental protection and public interest. Then we look to an animal tunnel, as it turned out. A senator, who is a great deed, is also associated with road repairs that must be seen in a convergence. Substantial preparations for Eelfjörður funerals have to be implemented and the development of deadly transport through the Slysavísavík and, in fact, on the Churchbed in front of Isafjörður as well. There is no reliable airport on the West coast that needs to be examined, especially with regard to the development of employment life plans and integration in the fourth quarter. However, there are other larger and smaller projects that are waiting for ports and maintenance of marauders in many places that limit the activities of more efficient fishermen in the area. In itself, Westerners have many possibilities for initial work and tourism. We were reminded of this last weekend in an excellent Flange seminar, the Spring of Western Europe, where some scholars discussed the state of the West and the future. It was a joy to hear optimism in local young people and their faith in the wide range of opportunities for building up, but transportation is an awl. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] For today's occasion, there's a song. Twelve points out of the country if a minister uses an exhilarating tone in the construction of wood in a good settlement through a passage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u59	Mr. President. Thank you for your discussion. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers he received. He describes the concern that more money is missing in transport and infrastructure, and we agree wholeheartedly with it. I'd also like to point out that the state makes money from cars and cars, about 40 billion a year. The tour service produces some 70 billion a year, so if this is not a song right now, when the economy is good, as all economics indicate, when can you get the roads of the people out of the dirt and in a built - up road? When is that? I'm concerned that the sign here in the capital area has yet to do with the fact that this is not a time to leave the country. All too often, with the inhabitants of the country, the expansion of the capital area is under way. Of course, this is not acceptable. It is all up to them to be able to live normal life in health care, education, and all the things that men probably consider today. I think it's quite obvious that a financial plan as it looks doesn't cover the demands ahead, unfortunately, far, far away. The markets of the state's revenues must also be updated to achieve income. They have not been updated in terms of prices. But beyond that, we're not going to watch that it should be put on a road otter here. We are to be able to perform for the money that comes into the state and to use the existing revenues to build up a transport system suitable for the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u60	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. It's important and important. I'm glad there's a lot of them. Although there is a sense of irresponsibility in this discussion, many people are talking about tens of millions of projects that can be dealt with like snapping fingers. This does not mean that reality is being faced with such talk and that you have some expectations that cannot be lived up to. I just want to get to it for a while. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who last mentioned, said that there was nothing to be done in the country because there was so much expansion in the capital area. However, as I entered my opening talk, it has been so greatly increased to these classes over the past year, and it was the council that preassigned much of that amount. What are they doing out in the country? There's a new boat built for the Western Islands. That'll take a very large share. It is initiated into an animal tunnel that is carried out, which will take about 3.5 billion and the following years, the same amount each year. We're getting ready to go to Fallus Road. There's a tunnel running through Vállhaki. A new tunnel is being opened to Ness shops this year. I can keep talking forever. It's all a job out in the country. This is not the case with such irresponsibility, saying that priorities are not being set in that direction, and then only some tens of billions can be worked out. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson came across the way we would approach this in the base program. Of course, these are big issues that must be discussed in a community plan that will be submitted later this year. There is also a debate over a city line, an important and good project, public transportation in the capital area. So we take it with a positive mind, but it is clear that the funds there are not for an arrangement as the situation is today. There is something that needs special consideration. It is very important that we realize that if we are to reach this goal in any way, we need to take our hands and look outside the box in view of the funding available. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't matter, I assure you, which government would be in power, this needs to be thought over in some way again. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if we are to do this seriously, we need to bring in the large client, the great tourist stream, which is, in part, the root cause of the problem, to share with us in this building. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It happens through roads, and it doesn't really happen in any other way that makes sense. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Education and cultural minister for a brilliant response to my request for a special discussion on high school issues. Iceland has in recent decades enjoyed a cheap, powerful educational system that has been available to all the people regardless of their habitat and economy. In recent years, however, this system has been very hard to pick up. This has been kept in financial crisis and in Iceland, some of which have been cast out of Icelandic high school schools and where teachers have been able to struggle for a salary that in other countries was rather demanding, and in view of the importance of the work. Last Thursday, news came that there was a time to unite the High School of the Ages and the Theocratic Ministry School. It is safe to say that society's reactions were negative, to say the least. Here at the General Assembly, delegates in a pita objected to the tactics we had. Students and teachers at the FA along with Iceland's Teacher Association were quick and condemned planned changes. I'm amazed at how this case has been fulfilled. A secret has rested on these negotiations, a secret that could not be removed, a secret that was exposed to the minister's unscrupulousness. I would ask myself, " If this hadn't come out, what would have happened? ' Would the results have been reported to students and staff when the decision had actually been made? When do you report school together and when do you not announce school together? How do we react when we consider such matters? We consider what the people's will in this matter is, and we represent them. We wondered about purpose and goals. We take a course in the matter by means of scholars, teachers, students, and parents. Right? In an open meeting of the General and Education Committee this morning, a minister of the Board of Education noted that there was a way to support the basics of training and education and that it could be understood in his language that the transfer of the Technical School at the High School of the Year's League was a way to do so. I agree with the minister in terms of growth and education, it's certainly necessary, but put a question mark on the intended route. Would it not be easier to push first all the loose ends of this study before we move on to further adjustments in school management? Of the more than 100 academic scholarships left behind in training, only nine have been approved. It is not that there is an emergency because of it, but this is one typical manifestation of the neglected study, if I may say so, and now it seems that the Ministry is going to run away from the job by turning it to private citizens. At the former meeting this morning, the minister spoke about an untimely discussion. I can't disagree more. A discussion can have an effect on government decision making and is never premature. A respectable president. I set three points to be the basis for these discussions. First, they are the government's contributions to the seminary, i.e. High school, different from the basics, and third, unity of school. Besides, I followed a few questions, which are like this: Have any policies been carried out on the above? Has there been an assessment of how to cope with the development of the Technical School? Has there been consultation with those involved, i.e. Teachers, students, parents, scholars? There are additional components intended, e.g. among smaller schools, among those who are financially poor and in school that are very similar?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. The chairman of the discussion that is about to begin here, is on the ground very well, and turns to where we want to take the high school stage in the country. There is always a valid discussion and should be taken whenever you wish to do anything less. That's right, as a matter of course. The saying that we have had and have still a policy to study in Iceland should be available to as many people as possible, regardless of their residence, economy, or other alike. In many ways, the system has been picked up like a whale. An apocalyptic correctly pointed to the matter. It has not been done merely for financial reasons; there are also changes in society that lead to a system of services such as education to respond in some way and that we have not done it well over the years. From Thursday onward, we can see that in the matter that has been at the top of the discussion, it is noted that there is more to it than a lack of financial resources or practices. There are many other reasons why this project is being carried out and for what reason we are dealing with it, including the following: social changes, transfers, attitudes, new technologies, new knowledge, etc. Judicial contributions have been growing in recent years despite a decrease in the number of students. A budget for 2018, as shown in a financial program, is expected to include 800 million donations. K. above the bill for budgets for 2017 and contributions for each student are typically increasing beyond the price level and have been doing so since 2014. The financial agenda is not expected to make that change. It presents a real - life growth for each student of 3◯4%. However, like all other lawsuits, there is an economy here, and it has raised up to 2%. I'm just gonna get to it for a second. A candidate mentioned in his speech and can address some of the questions presented in his later address and presentation. I don't agree that we're having negotiations. The Ministry is looking at the benefits in Northland in cooperation with school there and now in these areas in the capital area. We're not negotiating with school. We're looking at the assessment and we're working on the pros and weaknesses of uniting the two schools underneath. I refuse to speak up that we are running from an assignment to break free ends of education. It's not my way to run from work. We have a report of the State Review that judges the whole system, not just today, but for many of the gentlemen of the year that it is possible to build up and develop learning in Iceland. There is no fairness on the part of an administry to push it all over the Ministry that only nine or ten of the 100 courses of study are confirmed. I know why. A senator knows better than that. There are 8,300,400 people in the community who have much to say about these matters. It's not just the Ministry or the pros or the schools. A report by the Council's Review clearly shows that it is the collective responsibility of all these parties, and for some reason it has not been possible to set matters straight in these areas, as we do. It's bad and it's supposed to blow off. That, however, takes time. I'd like to finally say this here that I think we need another discussion to make further exchange because the time passes and the second part of my speech will, unfortunately, be shorter than the person being delivered here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u63	A respectable president. She's not a student policy of this government. Rather than stand here and discuss a vision for a high school degree. The discussion has been discussed by the minister on whether this school, or the other school, should be united, and what financial and business plans should be used. We're not looking for the future. We're making some transfers. In the spirit of cooperation and reconciliation, the minister informs members of the board of directors, a few days before we report in the arms's opposition, that the School of Technology is to be taken over the High School of the Year's Day. It's the highest line of work. Minister. It may be remembered for us senators to complain about these dreary tactics, for they touch school students considerably more and school employees who remain in complete uncertainty about what their future will be in a few days because the minister has been working with them since February. At the same time, the minister says that there is no standing to make any changes in the school system to save money. Will that promise be fulfilled in the same way as when it was promised that a reduced school education, from four years to three, would not result in a lower budget? In fact, there is a 4-fold increase in the budget now being discussed, from 0.4% to 2% in the next year. Is this part of the education system? No, a respectable president. I don't think there's any point in suggesting that the government is in the educational system. It doesn't appear in policy, which is none. It does not appear in the sheepfolds that are starving. This is not shown in our dealings with the school community or with the council. No, if the education system is to flourish, a respectable president, it needs to be replaced by this government. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u64	A respectable president. One of those questions. In view of the combined schools that entered the Theocratic Ministry School, a candidate is involved in this discussion. I don't think I have that kind of food under my hands or I know how to do that kind of food, but I want to share my vision of how such unity has worked. Let me give you three episodes. First, I look at the figures I have, and I've been asking for new numbers from the Ministry, the Technical School is a very popular school for new students. A lot of people are applying to get to it. Fewer to find out than will. Without the sole measure of education, it is often an excellent measure, for people often know what they want, and people often know what is good and what is not. Second, I would like to mention the success of the Technical School in various contests, e.g. At the National Institute of Industrial and Work Programmes, where the student's success is compared to the results of other students, as well as the contest of a high school program conducted at the University of Reykjavík each year, where students have also been very successful. In fact, the school stands for the programming program of high school students, which I like most. Third, I would like to mention my experiences from the time I was a teacher at the University of Reykjavík, but it helped me to see how well the students who came from the Technical School were prepared for my study in the computer science department where I was teaching. I'm not saying these are some standards that matter everything, but it's my food anyway. It is my opinion that this school as a whole became stronger than the unity that came there, and it is my opinion that this union has succeeded.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. In effect, she is a progressive continuation of a discussion I had with the highest. Secretary of education on April 24th. Since we discussed the very future of training and education, and since the Minister did not inform himself that he would have an opinion of the Theocratic Ministry School and the High School of the Year's Day. However, the possibility of a professional college, such as a polytech, is understood to be discussed in many parts of the world. I simply want to express concern that we are constantly taking a good job and working course and moving it up to the university. I don't think this has necessarily resulted in very good results. I certainly hope that it is not the thought of the take that is being considered here, the transfer of the Technical School of the Multi course of the Year's Day. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek went through the fact that the Technical School offers an excellent study, and there's no question about it. However, if we look at the development of public work and education in this country, then at the same time that students have increased in the Technical Schools of Compatibility with other schools, in public schools, students in general have decreased the number of students in the field of industry and training. It can't be the point of reducing the total number in a single school. I would like to encourage the Minister to do what he said in the chamber that he was planning to do, i.e. to follow the proposals and indications that came from the National Reunion on the Work and Work Study, to take steps to accept the application procedure, to make needed changes in the management department, to take into account the 70 committees that are active with 350 persons, to promote the workforce, and to place extra money in the workforce and to improve primary education, so that students go to work first instead of making a decision when they are able to enter into their own careers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that's also part of the explanation that we've had this very high school discharge. [[The president calls.]] This study has simply been too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u66	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u67	A respectable president. After meeting with the highest power. A two - fold minister on matters related to unity and high school status is faced with a serious challenge. At the same time as the number of students is reduced, the requirements for the school system are greatly increased, including Because of the increased demand for labor with professional rights from industry and projects, which are just the subjects that have been involved, not only here, but also from our partners in the North countries. Official review led to the implementation of the Commission as the highest level. A minister quoted earlier at a high school education and returned a report on the matter to the General in April. It states on page 19. 18, with President's permission: ▪ Search for ways to increase the interest of young people in the field ministry. Studies have shown that high school students want more education than old - school attitudes in society have established field studies lower than book studies. It's been difficult to change them. At the same time as the demand for labor with professional rights in industrial and industrial sectors is increasing, the unemployment of academics has increased. The need for professionals can be clearly explained in most fields of employment, but only a small percentage of high school students are able to go to school and to study. Serious errors have developed between study selection and demand for labor. It is important to respond to this position as soon as possible. Aside from the planned cohesion of Technologies School and the High School of the Moon, I want to pray to the highest degree. The Minister of Education and Culture to describe the ways in which we can go to promote and strengthen high school, and especially for art, industry, and technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u68	Mr. President. V.E.G. Education minister spoke at an open school meeting this morning about the quality of high school that has come up because of a reduction in school education, mainly due to a reduction in book study in short term for student study, but also for demographic reasons. Ideas at the highest. A minister on how to solve the problem raises many questions about real purpose and purpose to change. How can it be, if the system's main problem is that few schools most people are out in the country are less able to offer a wide range of educational opportunities and provide students with the appropriate services, that the solution is to combine two major training schools in Reykjavík and to the Association of Industrial Services, Union, and the European Society of the Seas, and the Industrial Society in Reykjavík is best qualified for training staff for health care? There are no professional reasons or criteria for evaluating the results of the Union and there is no mention of such plans in the government budget, although at the highest level. The minister rests his legal duties in that case. Hv. Congress officials are informed only of this in the media, and employees are being kept uninformed. Is it really hope that people will be surprised by what is happening here? Another surprising recent report says that since High School at Dizziness has been successful in shrinking students and other older students from school but before they are expected to reduce the number of newcomers. For years, high school has been struggling to find ways to reduce the school drop. More Icelandic high school students leave school than in other OECD countries. The funds spent in the process of coping with disfellowshipping are well spent, and schools need to be strengthened to do even better in that area. Of course, when this is done, financial and financial programs require that schools be successful, not requiring that schools become internally smaller than new students who are successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u69	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank the advocate of this discussion, which, in fact, should have come to the initiative of the minister himself. As we know, the language is the planned union of the High School of the Years at the Technical School behind closed doors without the arrival of a council, employees of the school, and students of the school. The most important thing to me is this Minister's strategy, the highest. The president, who was unable to provide an adequate answer to what sort of improvement he would have made in order to stand on this for himself without any visit of the council and, in fact, allowed himself to refer to his officials when his opinion came that he had the authority to do this. The answer seems to be: I own this, I'm allowed. That is in harmony with the highest comments. The prime minister of the past has nothing to do with the memory of the matter, so we do not agree with it. The reason. A minister gives the cooperation to the reduction in the number of students by protecting and uniting these two schools. The reason for a statue in high school was that the economy would benefit from high schools. Now the financial program shows that it is not. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: If it is not possible to make use of the funding generated by shortening the study period, one of the main reasons why we look forward to a decrease in school, why is this money not being used in protecting a student's education rather than uniting two schools, another private school, and the public school? I ask: If it's not to be used for the financial advantage of a reduced high school education, what should this money do?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson, for this discussion. You see, there is a general agreement on the importance of developing a powerful educational system where students can choose from a wide range of options for finding a proper study. All of us agree that education is the key to the prosperity of the nation. We can contribute to both a wide range of employment and a higher standard of living through a high level of education. At the same time, we need to make sure that we take full advantage of the material resources that go into education as best with the interests of students in view. Clearly, the educational system as a whole has struggled with a difficult financial situation, but it also presents a number of organizational challenges. Still, we are adding a considerable amount of contributions to each student, but I know that this can be done better. The increase in funding is needed to strengthen the infrastructure of school, but school problems will not be solved merely with increasing financial contributions but with the need to consider the future planning of the school system. That's why we need even. To look at the opportunities that may include increased cooperation between school and school. In fact, cooperation or cooperation can involve both increased practicality in school management but can also improve the quality of teaching and the wide variety of educational opportunities for students. Because of the decrease in the number of students, we need to respond in order to offer a wide range of studies, especially in specialized education. Industry is expensive, so care should be taken not to limit the reduction in the quality of the study by being open to changes. We assume that students always have access to a wide range of educational opportunities, and if it can be guaranteed better by cooperation, cooperation, or cooperation, I'll celebrate it. All of us need to work at strengthening the support of training in Iceland. The unity of school is not only in the case of business problems but also in the case of whether practicality can be used to support the foundation of the study. The different forms of business are positive in our system. [[The president calls.]] With increased independence from school, managers and teachers enjoy space in order to conduct teaching in a way that they consider to be most effective. I trust them to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u71	Mr. President. It was necessary to inform Congress and nation, teachers, students, and other staff of the Year's School on Thursday that the Annual School should now be put whole into the Technical School, eHf., the private financial school. This was surprising, but not entirely, because the minister has acknowledged that the matter was in preparation since February, and that the Councils of Birt had the future, the restoration and the Independence Party were made aware of it, and they knew that the School of Technology was about to take on greater roles, such as the Supreme Court. At the beginning of a meeting, the prime minister made this discussion. This secretism and behind tent aggressor contradicts, as it has been suggested, with all the talk of open management and strong criticism. That's not the main thing I know. A minister claims to be able to establish, lay down, and combine high school at will without the presence of the Generals. Then you must ask, "What next? " Is it so great? A health minister can deposit the Land Hospital or part of it into one of the private services of the company, shall we say the clinicals? This talk of a wide variety of business forms is nothing more than a cover - up of gross pedestrianism. Our education systems are being creaked in the same way that we're looking up in health care. I'm just going to say here, finally, when we're left green, we're asked whether we want private business or not, so we're not princely, against profit, against partner business, or against private business. We ask three questions: Is this better for students and teachers? Is this better for the education system in the country? Is this better for the taxpayers? The answers are all no, unfortunately, and there is no material argument. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u72	A respectable president. I would like to use this second speech to direct my words to the primer and make the subject of his education policy. Let's save this particular example when it comes to our own business. It is now, for example. to attend a new music after school. There's more private business, and we can take the stand that there's a private system being expanded at the expense of the public system. So, what are we gonna do? What do the Pirantar say? I feel that the Pirantars sometimes talk about holistic policy, open and transparent processes and whatnot. A senator said that the people needed to be asked because we are in their authority. Are you going to ask the people about a new high school music run by privates? It's obvious that behind these innocent claims, I find that I have quite a call for majority talk, that much of it is up to me. More than anything else, there are human rights and freedoms of education. I think that's a lot of control. I'm calling for more liberalism from what. Pirata's members, because there's still people in Pirata who, amazingly, call themselves liberals. I have to say, I think it's pretty persistent people. And I was now a European member of the Independence Party for 17 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you for taking up this very important matter. I'm going to allow myself to be a foreigner, like I'm entirely equal, and bring only a different address here. When we discuss school matters, we are, in effect, discussing what comes next in every community. We all have opinions about them, and more often than not, we are ready to take a decisive stand and accompany her in a discussion that often becomes quite intense, as the examples prove. As ideas about unity begin, strong reactions are evident. That's normal. The role of school is great, and it is a valuable support to the communities they serve. It is different organizations with different emphasis. We know little schools that keep close in mind each student and their work even overlaps with the work of medical institutions. We ask: Do we need to define our roles better? Or are we willing to continue supporting a small school that has been successful in supporting young ones in life? I hope so. V.E.G. President. Somehow, it is so that there is no overall education in school affairs. I can't see where we're going after 10, 15 or 20 years. Is it not proper to view school in the context of and from the viewpoint of traditionality, their role in employment, and their social importance? There are many things we agree on, but we have to choose what we will put our money in this category, such as all others. It costs to run a school, and this can be done because its importance is unambiguous. We know the importance of the communities in which they work and work, and they even contain many of them. Now, the idea of uniting schools in our fine districts, the North-east district, my district and the Minister, has developed, and I would like to ask him, Are there any ideas or plans to unite schools in that area?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u74	A respectable president. In view of the discussion of the harmony of Technical Schools and the FEI, I want to pray to the highest degree. Minister to inform the Senate of who is participating in the modern diagnostic work, which we have discussed many times in recent meetings. I also ask what sort of consultation is expected with stakeholders. The minister has often discussed the importance of defending professional and powerful school activities by promoting projects, technical and industrial education, and not focusing too much on school management plans. I agree with him, but I also believe that it is very important that the stakeholders are well informed so that professional discussions will not be lost. A few years ago, I personally have experience in the harmony process of the city of Reykjavík, where I admit I have taken the matter of fear of change and therefore lost the opportunity to look for solutions outside the box and find new ways to cope with the most needed changes. I simply missed the opportunity to meet a professional challenge that I faced in behalf of students and an improved school system. I repeat the question: How will the Ministry provide information and consultation with the members who come to work together really and thereby ensure a professional aim to promote a research and technology which we agree to be a common priority, as well as the school system for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u75	Mr. President. The government's financial program specifically states that long - term resources in high school have made their mark on the work and on their operating position. Fundamental funding has been affected by the quality of teaching and learning, and it has not been possible to provide adequate support or new tools and teaching tools. After such a scandal, it could be assumed that, in time, there was information on a large increase in financial resources that enabled the school to improve matters of luxury, but it is not. Instead, it is noted that because of shorter study periods for the student's test, money saves and so reduces financial resources by the end of the programme. However, during the shortening process, the government's independent party and forwarding program promised that what was spared by the shortening would be added to the high school ladder for the benefit of students and school work. But that is not the government of the Independence Party, the Resurrection, and the Bright Future. Mr. President. The plans for the unity of the High School of Technology and the High School of the Year's League are unrealistic and illogical. What is the purpose of the unity? What problem is being solved in the school system by uniting these two large, well - equipped schools that work within their field of work, especially in construction and technology, than in the field of health care? Both schools are already enjoying size, both professional and professional. No criteria have been presented to evaluate the reality of the plans and to evaluate the effectiveness of the uniting classes of Hafnarfjörður at the Technical School of 2015. My feelings are that we're not told the whole story, that something should be accomplished as high as possible. Minister won't tell us what's going on. It is evident from this that high school laws need to be changed so that ministers need to demonstrate the need and benefit of uniting schools or making more contracts with private servants.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u76	A respectable president. It has been mentioned in the April 2017 issue of Kingdom Review. It says, by permission of a president: Despite years of promise to advance high school education, governments have failed to produce the results when the law no. 92/2008, through high school, were agreed. Among other things, they were to develop engineering skills and develop the stronger cooperation of schools, workplaces, and commercial activities as a whole. The law was to become a high - quality job course, an open - door school way for the development of career education and study in connection with services. It hasn't worked out. Why has this not been the case? The report contains the answer. It speaks of unsurpassed policy and inadequate government measures that play a significant role in the ongoing progress of occupational work. I'd like to remind you that the Independence Party has had this service under its wing for two terms. I wondered, a respectable president, what may we expect next. Will the remaining industrial schools in the capital area be united with the Theocratic Ministry School? What about MK? Will the government gradually hand the entire training to a private employee, including the operatingforce in the country? Is it possible that people will take the step to the full and dust from old ideas of the Business Council about three or four high schools in Iceland? Everything is changing in this world. It also applies to schools of education, they come and go. We must always look for ways to improve and the community we are part of. We cannot take the place, but we must not go on the road if we do not know where we are going. Finally, I want to thank the minister and members of the council who have participated in these discussions today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u77	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. There have been many places in the world. I ask fine senators to remember that we have high school laws from 2008, which certainly need to be revised, I'll be the first to agree with that. There's a set of policies, there's a pretty clear line on that. Similarly, the primary course for high school is policy; it was published in 2011. It includes the goals and arrangements for high school activities. Where can policy be clearer? Then the management board, the Council, is entrusted with the emphasis that came in and on the subject. Some political parties in high school may be involved in getting this government out of the way. That's good, but it's not clear that way. On the other hand, I rejoice bitterly, as we give a reply, a comeback. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir, a senator of the left green, here in the hall, hearing that she has forgotten nothing. We completely agree in many ways, i.e. that there are three main questions to ask. The difference between me and what. A senator is already holding answers, but I'm waiting for the Ministry's report to provide answers to these main questions. It seems to me that during the discussion, as if many senators have taken in advance what the outcome of that work will be, either along with or against unitedness. I'm going to take a look at that question when I receive the information that is being developed on this subject and the main questions that have to be answered in these topics. Other than that, I thank you for the discussion. The advisor for recording the case. Later, I look forward to communicating with him on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u78	A respectable president. I just want to make a note on behalf of Porta's council that we vote against these differences, since this case was taken all too late. It's all too much to take care of now. We don't think it's going to be this late and we don't see the need to go through this council right now. Here is a deadline for Congress, which is for all of us, and we see no compelling reason why there should be an exception to the government this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u79	A respectable president. I'm sorry for a little confusion around here. For fuck's sake. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, who is away because of other Senate services, I think I have to explain Pirata's position in this matter. There were very bad changes in the treatment of this case, which included impaired anonymousness, in fact, being eliminated. The law made a secret to the unveiled people who were going to inform about financial violations. As a result, there are some Piranites who will be sitting by in this case, since they consider the matter to be improved despite these bad regulations, and then there are others who will vote against it, for this very reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u80	President. A financial market surveillance system is absolutely necessary. The refusal to deny by this conversion is to remove the essential elements in the implementation of this system, which, without which, will not provide the desired result that the system has set up to achieve and provide protection for unveiled persons. These laws could lead to putting a dangerous example to the future, resulting in the failure of the law to produce the results that we need to reach the land in order to deal with corruption. This is especially important in view of how small our community is and how close it is. That's why I say no to the bill in its present form.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u81	President. How sad it is that the adjustment arrangement made by Persian protection is becoming a law in another very important matter! I read through the reviews of Peritoneal Protection, and the evidence that the possibility of anonymousness should be taken away is indistinguishable. This is one of a few times in which I disagree completely with a review from Pernon Protection. There's talk about molars in banks, and there's no way Persian protection should ever feel about it. Personal protection should be dealing with personal protection, and I find it hard to believe that we are here to accept such bad changes in the law to promote something that the General Assembly has already approved, which is the best quality informer of protection. This is certainly not the best possible quality, and it will have a very bad precedent for the future if we are not too clear that this is the wrong way. [[The president calls.]] I will fight all such coldness in keeping society open to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u82	Mr. President. I think it's important that it be shown by the final payment of this case that it is the understanding of the Directors of the Economic and Business Commission that with these changes I did not support -- to the left - greens did not support these changes - they are not banning anonymous tips. I think it's very important that the legislature of the legislature is underlined here, that it's not being banned from anonymous tips in the financial system. They're still allowed, and I think it's absolutely essential that they remain authorized. [[Up front.]] So it was noted during discussions with the committee that this is the understanding of the bill as it appears.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u83	... comes naturally...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u84	A respectable president. Here's 3rd and last round. this important issue, the bill for drafting legislation in Icelandic, the right rules for European financial monitoring. At the same time, the final stage for the induction of these rules is set for long distances. As shown in a report on the bill, the EFTA and EU discussions on this issue have taken a long time, starting in 2010. However, this time is understandable when it comes to the complexity of the subject of opinion. The EFTA participation in the European monitoring system clearly includes the nature and role of these European monitoring institutions, with a range of controlled opinions. The solution to these issues is truly unique. It means that the EFTA monitoring facility is entrusted with a formal decision-making authority in individual matters, but the European observation centres have a material advantage in preparing such decisions. As a result, efforts are being made to help achieve the EEA's core objective of single action. This is a new arrangement for the EEA Convention, for which the original agreement did not allow for such independent surveillance institutions, as discussed here. However, the European Union has become increasingly concerned with increasing market monitoring. To this end, more such institutions have been set up. I present as an example to monitor agencies in the field of telecommunications, energy and personal protection. Therefore, it can be assumed that the Council will consider such legislation and that such legislation will take into account the solution discussed here, i.e. that decision-makers are committed to the EFTA monitoring facility, while EU institutions have a physical resources involved. Mr. President. The induction of these rules only marks the first steps involved in the introduction of a major financial system in this country. As mentioned in the report by the minister of foreign affairs, discussed at the council last week, some 200 types were waiting to form in this field recording of the EEA contract last year. Thus, a number of types of productions are waiting in Icelandic, a type that is a very important part of this rule. As an example, I'll refer to a violation of financial violations and the deposit insurance directive. It is the job of the Generals to pay for the quick recording and implementation of these regulations to ensure the above EU agreement's unique targets. This means that the EEA Treaty, participation in Europe's internal market, and the global cooperation recommended by the EEA Treaty does not involve the release and maintenance of both. To say that, Mr. President, I clearly declare the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u85	Mr. President. Of course, all of us want more control of financial institutions, and this directive from the European Union is undoubtedly the finest document, but the fact is, there is a doubt whether the directive conflicts with the constitution. When that doubt exists, it is the oath of all of us to the Constitution that it was granted to keep it. In this case, there is a doubt, and now all you do is follow your convictions. My conviction is that when there is a doubt whether or not I will break the constitution with my approval in a chamber, I will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u86	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that there is a doubt whether this case actually conflicts with a constitution or not. Pirates and I support this whole thing. It may be a good reminder now, since we are most in the hall to point out that maybe it's time to create a new constitution, so it's really not that we've had the same conversation since 1992 or 1993, when I was two, three years old, about whether the EEA deal breaks the constitution or not. Thus, Martyrs become yellow or red depending on their convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u87	Mr. President. Senators of the left green paid a vote against the previous council resolution based on this bill because we believe that this proposal actually contradicts the constitution. Therefore, we will be embarrassed by the release of this bill. We agree with the main objectives of the bill and the experiment to increase financial control, but we believe, unfortunately, that it is an act of authority that takes place through this bill, which is very much, much more than it can resist a constitution, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u88	Mr. President. I don't know how exciting the case is that I recommend, the Commission's opinion on the board. 660, on bill to legalize the law of accountants. Materially, the matter is relatively simple. It is suggested that annual fees paid by accountants be paid in the state's budget to cover the costs at the legal hearings, which increase from $50,000 per cent. of 80,000. it becomes clear that the current cost is not sufficient for costs. The committee proposes that the bill be approved. Under the heading, Óli Björn Kárason, and Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Bribber Níelsson, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, Ásbjörn Óskarsson, Smári Mccarthy, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, in advance, and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfólósdódódótir, the daughter of Lima Ásbjörjörður Gelfótir, who is responsible for the sum of the fee, and then Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who was absent from the case, but whose writings are regarded as the authority in Article 18. Organizations for the Generals' Committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u89	A respectable president. In the beginning of my speech, I'd like to apologize for my absence of prior proceedings, which were due to Congress. I hereby acknowledge the opinion of the State Department on the proposal to conspire as to the confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 39/2016, change of XXII. Annexes, i.e. ... ofa cartelion at the EEA Convention. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted the representatives of the Directorates of Employment and Development and Department of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 39/2016, of February 5, 2016, of the change in XXII. Annexes, i.e. on the European Parliament Directive and the Council of 2014/95/EU from 22 October 2014 for the conversion of Directive 2013/34/EU to the publication of certain large enterprises and partnerships of financial information and information on multiplicity. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to ease the administrative notice was provided on August 6 to 2017. The proposal is adopted by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The aim of Directive 2014/95/EU is to achieve a comparable level of social and environmental information in companies of all EU employment sectors. This directive includes partners who fall under the 2013/34/EU Directive for annual accounts, consolidation accounts, etc. According to the directive, the Commission shall include information to the extent necessary to explain the development, effectiveness, environmental, social and staff status, respect for human rights, and protection against bribes. The directive was implemented by law No. 73/2016, turn of annual accounts law, No. 3/2006, with subsequent changes. In spite of the proposal's presentation, the Committee considered it to be in accordance with Article 4. The European Commission will make specific comments on the treatment of the situation. The Commission insists that the Conventional Treatments of EEA matters should be corrected by law No. 55/1991 of the General Assembly, including aimed at ensuring that the disposal of legislation through the implementation of EU-type rules is in a set and consistent manner. The committee makes note that the directive was introduced before the administrative notice has been lifted. This procedure is not consistent with Article 5. Regulations on the political treatment of the EEA which states that the Ministry's Office will prepare at the same time or following the granting of the Parliamentary resolutions required basics for adjustment and in time for the council to be submitted. The commission then points out that the implementation of the directive goes beyond the minimum directive requirement. In a paper with a bill for law No. In contrast, 73/2016 was nowhere. The committee points in this context to c-joint 5. The Conventional Treatment of EEA states that in comments on legislation for implementation, it should be made in a clear and consistent way as to the extent to which the bill contains an abnormality from the original EU type, i.e. Whether or not to the extent of success beyond the relevant preparation yields reason for the administration of the product. In a paper that followed the Parliament's decree, it is specified that the implementation of the directive calls for a change in law No. 3/2006. The committee believes that this law has already been made by law No. 73/2016. Other than that, the committee does not make comments. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Hv. Senators Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Tót Björn Einarsson were absent from the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the wife of Haraldsdóttir was absent from the case, literature is considered to be in accordance with warrants at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. This was done at the General Assembly, May 2, 2017. Posthumous members: Elínardóttir Sólven Sólveig Sólnnardótttir Elinardóttir, president of the State Department, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Birgir the Aargótir, Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjöfjölótir, and Steinunn Þóra, Björnótir of the Árnadóttir. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u90	Madam President. I'm just going to make very brief what is stated in the State Department's Committee members' section on this synopsis proposal for confirmation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 39/2016 on cartel. The main challenge I'd like to make is the right one. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason took note of the fact that a decree was instituted before a administrative advance was removed. A discussion on this point led to a meeting of the State Department of State and was agreed within the Committee to specifically specify and highlight this in the committee's opinion to promote the indications of the management of the European Parliament's treatment in Article 5. There's rules. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we represent the smaller section in writing after a discussion with the committee on this subject, but we still draw attention to the gang in the committee's opinion of a administrative notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u91	A respectable president. It's kind of special to start a discussion again in the middle of a discussion. It was my turn to attend my studies when the discussion season was out here last week. Nevertheless, I wanted to have an opportunity to review some of the elements of the bill, linking with the discussion that took place last week. I had a word with the highest. Environment Minister on two factors that I would like to deepen only when you can discuss this with more time in this discussion. There's another one. Eight. the bill that discusses the support of land healing. The forestry bill is also available from the highest level. Ministers, both basics of these articles, and the debate here last week was a little bit of criticism, especially of the members of Congress greens, that these two factors had to be integrated, as if they had even been united into one institution. I have to say, as it is, I don't agree with that approach. There is nothing wrong with mine knowing that there are two basics on land - healing and forestry. I can also admit that the case is related to me, since I was involved as a environmental minister in questioning whether it should wait for men to figure out whether one organization could be created and therefore integrate these two projects or whether they should start working on building bills on both sides. So here they have been after a few years of work, which I've never been to since. What I wanted to film here, you know, in the discussion, even at the highest level. A minister, although this is the case, it is the support of the State for land healing and, on the other hand, for the forestry, for the administrative affairs of these two groups, and for the fact that it is a two-priority - I took up this discussion with the Supreme Court. A minister in answer - is that I feel somewhat lacking and would have wanted to see that the government looked more closely at land healing as that article, which is the basis for making up the land, stopping the rage, and preventing pollution. In view of this, it would have been natural for us to strengthen forestry with up to 97% of forestry expenses, that in the soiling bill, there would have been something comparable, or that men would have said that these are two groups of languages that could therefore reside in one institution, or that they could approach the two sectors in a similar manner, would be comparable to that of the State. I say this because I know that land healing is performed by a number of sources, especially farmers, citizens of the country. A wonderful project called Farmers has been making the country rich for some years and has worked very well. There, the official support has been partly applied, i.e. the ads used by men to make money, and seeds, while farmers themselves have contributed all the equipment and the entire worktime, all the cost of the project. The same can be said of a free organization, whether as land - healing agencies or as farmers often live in as well, but also of all kinds of clubs that have taken up land. All these people do this volunteerly, of course, do not regret it, but you might wonder, since one of our priorities in climate analysis is transplanting, stopping steam and making up carbons, whether there was no room for the state to implement a climate action program and say: Therefore, we are going to strengthen land healing in a way that is very different from what we have done for a very long time. When six ministers met here just before the weekend and began making quite an effort to get to the ground for some plan of action, I struck after that. Talk about land healing. In fact, there was also a discussion with the government because we've been doing it a little bit today, and I thought it was fine, but it would also have been able to paint it with the opposition before people said it was a great deal of understanding. It's getting a little tired to hear that you need to have increased consultation with the government opposition where the majority of the objects are so small, both in order to improve the outcome of the situation and that it is a more careful management and more transparency. But let's just leave it alone. The key point is what I wanted to use my time in most ways, that I believe now is the opportunity to make a significant increase in government support to the important work done for decades and even hundreds of those who are America's best inmates, i.e. the farmers of the country, as well as the numerous member organizations, rural communities, and others who have greatly contributed to this. We certainly see results in that work. Iceland is healing and we're seeing significant results. A five - year - old view of aerial images shows that we are in a very different place five years ago, let alone ten or 15 years ago, so we are truly on the right track. I would have thought that when they're going to put together a whole bill on this suit, to renew about A 50 - year - old law would have been an opportunity to say: "Yes, we look, too. how we've gone to the forestry industry, and now we're going to take on our land healing because it's one of our most important opportunities to do what we're going to do in climates, bind carbons, heals the land, and prevent pollution. In this regard, I briefly mentioned, and interestingly, that Lake Thadvalva has been widely discussed and even Lake Myy, but mostly the importance of keeping the purity of the Lake Tingvala. All of us agree on that. Specific measures on water quality and in-depth activities to be followed have been set up. When people began to look at the causes of pollution in Lake Þingalva, it was found that they were not the cottages, nor were they washed, nor were the cars affected by significant traffic. Neither were the tourists that arrived, but they were the major factors, including. Of the Hague Lakes that some have been afraid to face, who would like to be an energized environment. When it comes to trying to stop at the Hague Lakes, it must not be because it should not be that someone would think of putting some straw and starting to produce electricity. Even it went so far that one of the environmental dams here in the last term said that all the dams could be created and sinked and raised the water table, it just could not be made electricity at all. This, of course, sounds strange and is not the main thing in this matter. The important thing is that to stop steam, we need to improve our land healing. We all agree on that. In order to achieve a major effort to improve land healing, it would be reasonable for the State to come up with support, especially in view of the future case we may discuss, the forestry, the State has taken a fairly clear stand for long periods of time and have been prepared to pay up to 97% of the cost. There were several other points I was going to mention, but now I may not have time to do so altogether. I have to trust that it will be discussed in the Committee. However, I would like to mention that land transplants have a significant task called defense against crime in VI. section of the bill. It discusses consultations with landowners and consultations with both sides of the bank. In this discussion, I want to point out that it needs to be done more than talking to the owners on either side of the river, for the years in Iceland are acting in such a way that if they are stopped in any particular area, they tend to correct their share only on the lower river so that the impact becomes more widespread. Of course, this is a project that needs to be handled with caution. Of course, the task of halting flood - related deforestation is impressive, especially in Southeast lands where the glaciers shrink, float on an increasing scale, and change the riverbed considerably. Since it is not until some workers, such as road repairs or bridges, are threatened, but they can be dealt with sooner in the process, in the midst of the glaciers, in a much less inexpensive way. But then there's been a lack of money, and in this bill there's nothing to talk about. I just wanted to point out in this discussion that land healing needs this important task, which, of course, she has funds to do. This can prevent both significant fragments of land that then cost us land healing and when construction, such as roads or bridges, is at risk much more than if they have previously responded. That's what I wanted to say. So, toward the end, there is another thing that I heard, however, in reply to us. A minister would be in a better place. I received a very long - term explanation for what I asked. When land has been taken into the forest, some agreements on land owner's rights and duties explain when he gets his country back and whose he gets his country back, and who owns the forestry, although there was a debate over who owns the carbon quarup when it comes to climate. In land transplants, and especially in her early history, land transplants, and the earlier Sand transplants may have taken possession of the fetus because it was requested without a clear passage of who owned the land and who owned the land. Sadly, in recent years we have seen this controversy develop. I would appreciate it if it were possible to go to the list of areas where the land has been used for land healing and to explain freely who owns the land and how to treat it once the land has completed its work. This is also true of lands owned by the State, which in recent years has been used to hire back to camp or to sell. Then the land transplant has taken over, and I can see that it is permitted in this bill, a part of the earth, and thus the earth is reduced indefinitely. I don't know if this is wise, whether it would be more reasonable to put some points into the sale agreement that this specific region of that earth should be in charge of land healing by contracts with landowners and could be used only to fill up certain conditions instead of taking it away forever. We have aquifers where it is forbidden to ignore certain benefits of selling on earth. It can be said that when a large portion of the earth is taken from the earth for land healing and that land healing is being concealed, the same is being done. I think that there is only a need to go down into the stitches so clearly, but, of course, with the aim in mind to ensure that a new country is being used in a sustainable way and that land healing has a chance to have something to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. She was--forgive, I always think it was so funny when we senators and ministers evaluate the speeches of the others, I'm going to try to avoid saying that she was good or bad, she was very revealing to me, and I thought she was fine in this discussion. I'm gonna let me say it. Hv. A senator identified the support of land healing and the differences between the forest and the agricultural services, the tasks we know, such as Farmers'growth, and the well - being of others. I heard why. A senator called for laws to be better adjusted and ways to expand. I agree with him on that, and I think we're most agreed that it's very important to do so in the climate. Then I'd like to point them out. Senator on 8th. In relation to this support for land healing at the bottom: A secretary in the Regulation gives further regulations on the support of land healing and the format of agreements. I'm going to do it because it's my vision that land transplants can help us a lot in terms of climate control. Hv. A senator came in on the climate discussion. He and others in the government groups can expect to receive a letter from me after a weekend, asking each category to appoint in a so - called group as professional groups for each topic field. I hope that the group where employment will also be the same as other economics can do quite well this summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the information. She can't get me wrong with her discussion. I didn't have any expectations except that a minister would consult with the government opposition. But it has become that way, and, of course, it is a political game, that once you talk about it from half-class to state. Environment Ministers, as well as perhaps also, state quality. A financial minister, about the importance now of being particularly important to the management care of the administrations, has increased transparency and strong consultation, particularly with the opposition in the light of the small majority of the government, has noticed that there is very much talk but little action. I would have just as expected that something was behind the word that was at its height. Environment Minister dropped here before a weekend, just pointing out that it is often easier said than it is to get when you want to establish real consultation and cooperation. Of course, for the other thing, I noticed it, and felt positive, that there should be written agreements on cooperation, and that a minister in the Regulation can give further support, both in agriculture and contracts, and that there is an opportunity to do so. But I think for all of this, it would be necessary that land transplants would become more clear to the national authority because the work is very important to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u94	A respectable president. That's a good point. I can't see anything, so I can't stand back. The Environment and Transport Committee will strengthen this wording if it wishes to be in regard to this paragraph. My mind on the matter has been shown here and written on the council. I now officially believe that this is very important, and I intend to go this way. There are also ways I want to look at this. I don't think all this support may have to come from the taxpayers' pockets but in some way we can activate those who pollute to do a little extra work, if you can say so, and share in binding the carbon that they release into the atmosphere. Then I'm talking about the big business that's got its own accounts elsewhere, but I've had informal conversations with a lot of people there, and I've agreed on whether this is a way to contribute to the community here at home too. I have to say, these conversations are promising, and I hope we can get this into the big plan, the Action Programme. It is empty to talk about consultation there. I must be judged as others by my actions, but the plan is not ready. We haven't started this conversation or this to-do. The joint declaration of the material was signed on Friday, and now there is nothing to wait for. Of course, she's been in preparation, but there's nothing to wait to start this conversation so that I can assure you. A member of the council that it is not a matter of late inviting the government side to the table after all or any formalities or word that people would like to use about it. [[The president calls.]] We're just about to get started, and I hope the government's gonna do it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u95	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, I do not question the Will and the mind of the Minister in order to have real consultation in this important field of climate. It's about all of us, not just government and government, but the public in Iceland and really the public around the world. These matters will not be acceptable unless everyone contributes. That is why I am not surprised, too, that big company leaders are interested in helping with that kind of thing. If all the people in the country are willing to participate, I believe in Icelandic companies that they also want to cover them with scales. It doesn't change that, and I hear that the highest. A minister agrees with me that it is important that in the land - healing bill the government wants to support those who have worked for years and that they do not regret their volunteer work. That would be normal, however, for humans, of course, are using large instruments and animals, that support was not only in word but also on table, and that the lawgiver's will was seen in the bill on land healing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u96	Madam President. I had a fairly long talk for the last week, but it was the highest. The minister of the environment was not in the hall, so she probably heard nothing of what I said. I'm not going to repeat it, but because the law, as I put it, encourages more intensive action, I just want to talk about it. These laws are fixed. It is filled with light points and useful goals, etc. In the bill, and I'm sure I'll be very supportive. However, there is a question about the funding shown. We'll talk about carbon binding in connection with land healing, and I understand that as much as I do. A minister thinks it's very important to spit in. As she says, it's not much of a question whether the public taxpayers or the resource users are involved, and they say it, I think there must be a mixture of all this. This was shown in the case of the current director of land healing when we spoke to him at a committee meeting that a year's carbon binding could be doubled by approximately 500 million. K. a donation or a value from wherever it comes, and a fourfold increase in this binding would cost several hundred million more. We have the national budget as it is, and we in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee have just received a review of it. When a man sat and calculated that there were perhaps 200 to 250 million dollars a year when the project was detracted, i.e. So if you think of the five years ahead, 40% of the time that is available up to 2030 when our Paris covenant goal is to be fulfilled, it is not to see that we are actually taking a big step in this regard. On the contrary, the Paris Convention does not expect unlimited carbon binding and continued emissions, so we need to do both. A minister is very interested in these matters, and he believes that we really are far more effective than we have so far. Also, there is the recovery of wetlands, which is probably in these numbers, and I want to know how she intends to apply herself along with these new laws to get a substantial increase in funds for this point. As I say, in this chapter there are 200 to 250 million people who are available in countless procedures listed in the budget. How will she use herself to obtain real money for binding, which is part of the fight to reach our climate goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u97	A respectable president. I'm very kind and obliged to come up and answer the question why. Senator. As he may have heard, I crossed it earlier with them why. A senator who preceded him on how I was opening up some ideas about how other people, but the taxpayers actually contributed money to this party. It's been well received. I saw what it was. A senator was in the hall when we went over it, so I may not have to repeat myself again. It has been received well, but of course nothing is nailed down. I agree with what. A senator says that this party needs more money, that's the case. There are also ways to do so. That's what I'm working for, and it's going to be part of the plan as a category. The senator will have access to and can insert a package in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u98	I appreciate the answer, but in general it was. Yes, I know of all of this, but when it comes to the whole thing, as you say, in terms of a national financial program that will now be expected to be agreed, there is really no table for bearing when it comes to this class. We've been through this many times on the Environment Commission, about 1 billion coming in the first year, and then almost chaos, so if you put this together and share in five, you're with a man with 200 to 250 million a year minus that investment in a building I mentioned. Although green taxes will be increased and other, it is quite clear that the aim which actually aims to increase the commitment here will not be reached, for now forests are entering this also, within the framework of this national budget. Maybe that's the big thing. There are all kinds of ideas on the scale, but when it comes to this piece, I think it's pretty clear that the frame is so narrow that all the talk I fully support, talk about increased results, new ways, really doesn't mean much when it's so narrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u99	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. Senator to this supplement, e.g. Land transplants and forestry are not included in a national budget, as, for example, my idea is that. ... ortheflyis coming in and paying off or adding, doing something extra, as I've said. Although their emissions are being met elsewhere, their emissions in Iceland are also ours. These ideas are not found in a national financial programme, and it might not be dangerous to do so because they are not in the hands of money, they are not. It may not be strange that there is no place there. This is something I've got a lot of mind to do. I've been well beaten up, but of course I just threw it out. This part must be part of the big plan, the Action Programme, a schedule to get started immediately next week. But it's going to be updated, that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u100	Madam President. All of this is worth a lot of money, but I think of it a different way. The severity of climate change and the severity of having undergone the Paris Convention are of the nature of ideas, observations and observations as to which might be possible, etc. - I'm not beinglittled by the highest words. The environment minister, far from it, merely pointed out that the severity is so great that to be sure that the success we are pursuing will be revealed to have a much more powerful financial leadership in this struggle. It is not included in the budget and is also not included in any of the provisions we have made for a fund funding of so hundreds of millions and probably billions of dollars in order to achieve the results we are going to pursue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u101	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill for a whole layer of forest and forestry. The current forestry laws are over 60 years old and over many out - of - date, although their goals are still valid and undoubtedly continue. Since their conquest, the forestry of a land where knowledge and ability to cultivate new forests have become abundant. Forests are practiced here in the country to build cultivated forests for timber production and, on the other hand, for the restoration of the natural forests of the land. The positive influence of a variety of forests on ecosystems, economics, and human health is a wide variety of design and therefore important to further the development of forestry. Since the current deforestation legislation, there have been changes in other environmental legislation in the region, such as nature protection, planning, forestry of the law, and environmental impact assessments. It is important that forestry legislation be updated at the same time as the social development, which also involves innovation in forestry research and knowledge and information development. It is important that new forestry laws highlight the growth of forestry for valuables, for refuge, for innovation and development, for forests and for the function of forest systems, including soil protection, water protection, and biodiversity. Forewords to achieve all these priorities are the protection and sustainable use of existing forests, the culture of new crops, the recovery of nature forests, and the intensive research and development work. Preparation for the development of the bill has taken place since 2011, appointing the then Environment Minister for Environment, a Committee designed to prepare a revised review of forestry legislation from 1955. The committee worked in broad consultation with a strategist and produced a report and proposal to change the current forestry law. As a result, the then minister decided to work on a new comprehensive forestisation bill and in 2014 was appointed a consultation platform to prepare the bill. Earlier this year the project was published on the environment and resource websites and stakeholders as an option to send references and comments to their content. Overall, the Ministry received 12 envelopes, taking some material changes in view of them, in particular the importance of protecting nature's forests, the definition of terms, desertification and deforestation, and the shape of national programmes in forestry. I'm going to review key changes in the bill, the law's aim for factors such as protection and restoration of biological diversity, sustainable development of forests, consistent with planning and nature protection, the access of people to outdoor forests and forest value and adaptation to climate change. National strategy for forestry has been reported to be in charge of the General Assembly. In the plan including To account for the choice of land for forest development in terms of nature protection, memory protection and landscapes, protection and recovery of nature forests and biodiversity, forest development and forestry development, and the scope and outlook on forest use, sustainable forestization, the impact of forestry development and eutrophication, and finally the access of people to forests for picnics. According to the bill, the national programme shall be prepared to implement a detailed forestry programme for all parts of the country. This plan is also to fall into harmony with the plans of a rural society. It is also suggested that breeding programmes should be performed for all newly developed forests. There is a directive that the wood industry maintains a record of all the forests of the country and the role of the forest in the management of national forests and other areas under the control of the Agency. The woodforestation laws become part of the total forestry laws, go along with this bill, but material is proposed to small changes in them. This section will deal with the protection, management and use of forests to ensure their sustainable use. It is set up to allow forestry to fall, and for counterweight action to reduce or prevent the negative effects of deforestation. Then I'm going to explain to you some of the main changes proposed in the bill. A target is set out to reflect the changes that have taken place in the forestry environment over the last few decades. Protecting and increasing the spread of nature forests, mostly birch forests, are put in the first place, as well as protection and recovery of biodiversity. The aims are also set out to develop a wide range of national forest resources and to provide sustainable use so that forest uses provide the most economic, social, and environmental benefits for society. In addition, forestry and other land use goals are set out. The bill assumes that the Ministers shall propose to the General for a hearing of a national strategy for forestry until the end of the ten - year period. Government policy, with a national strategy, is set out to achieve results in forestry, which would take into account the objectives of the law. A national plan, therefore, is a basic government government control system and a consultation on deforestation in the land. The project administration will be implemented to supervise the implementation of the national programme. In order to expand the forestry programme, the network aims to develop forestry in agreement with rural areas, farmers and other stakeholders, to carry out detailed projects for each part of the country. The bill assumes that a crop plan will lead to all newly developed forests. There they are implemented and designated areas that are not intended to grow in forests, such as protection laws. A development program may be required to allow rural society to permit development of forestry. That's when we're partners in forestry. Among other things, reference to the national strategy in forestry has been made by the bill to support the deforestation of individuals, partners, businesses, or others. This law explains the role of the forest industry to encourage the people in the country to do forestry, but it is not about deforestation. The bill considers a forest file to be held and ensures that it is won. A forest file is largely based on forestry's work, which includes forest exports. ... duetothe commitment of Iceland's climate agreement to the United Nations. So this is a very important provision. National forests are defined in the bill as forests and countries under the Swamp, whether owned by state or private property, as further defined by Regulation 9 g. The law further explains the purpose of the State's special oversight of cultured forests and natural forests, not within other protective areas and their position defined in Regulation. Examples of national forests are Hallorm's forest, Va glasslands, Hakkar Valley Forest, and the forest of the Valley of Turbine. In deforestation of the law. The law on national deforestation projects is covered under the bill for simplicity. It is expected that forestry will continue to be supported by laws that have been the largest forestry projects in the country for years. This includes contracts made up of Congress to 40 years of age. The report on sustainable use of forests in the bill includes that the annual fall in the forests of the country should not normally exceed their annual growth, i.e. not to be taken more from the resource each time than rentan. It's basic ideas for sustainability. It also requires that the management and implementation of forest conditions should be the most economic, social, and environmental benefits for society. The bill assumes that in order to destabilize a forest or part of the forest, he needs the permission of the Forest. The current law states that a permit should be obtained for the fall of forests. This law focuses mainly on crops where folding means that the forest is under attack in order to maintain the resource. It is therefore permitted to bind deposit criteria to ensure the renewal of the forest. Lasting destruction does not involve renewal. Is she banned from the bill? This is true of cultivated forests and forests of nature. If deforestation is considered unavoidable, such activities should be announced to the Agency according to the legislation on environmental impact. The directive states that the candidate should conduct counter measures in order to reduce or prevent adverse environmental impacts on the target of the law, such as the restoration of comparable forests and wastes. It is suggested that farm animals are not used in forestry or forest areas unless they allow the local forest owner to use it, since the forest or forest land is fenced with fencelike conditions that meet the conditions of fences. Forest industry is authorized to collect fees for the release of craws and as well as to collect fees for national services. Such a service may be in the form of parking lots, roomers, and tents areas. Then we'll have to work with the conservancy and the government fines. The bill assumes that the forest can be used by means of means of forced-out measures to force a provision under the law in particular for folding licenses and careful deforestation. Sources for the application of governmental fines are, in particular, directed to the same principles in the event of prior violations. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. referred to the highest. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u102	Madam President. I'm celebrating this bill. I think it is quite time, and I can agree with the authors of the bill or in the report that a collective review of forestry laws is quite timely, although the forestry laws from the fine gentleman's year 1955 are now very good in general, in both man and car and forestry laws, burned at the same rate, they have been able to stand a good time tooth. Things have changed since then. Both were now added to that law, and then the forestry legislation was added to the laws and other things that humans have incorporated into this new institution, the Forest. I think it's very natural if we say so on reorganization of these cases that new overall laws about forestry are coming. But it needs to be done carefully and to take new things, such as climate change and other aspects of the image that are, of course, efforts here in the text. First of all, I'm glad that this case is on schedule and that we have a bill for a full reexamination on the board, even though it's a little late this spring so that a good time is needed to take note of it if it's stressed out now. It also gives reasons to discuss other aspects of the context and, while the development of a woodforest and, of course, the country plan needs to be processed, I think it's okay to have the opportunity to talk only at the highest level. Environment and resource minister related to the contributions of this case, e.g. and especially about the grandest part. A minister arranges for the deforestation of games in the coming years of Iceland's actions to meet his commitments on climate levels. It has just been reported that there will be a special operation program this year. During the days, a contract was signed by six advisers, where everything is normal planning, but it requires the development of material things. Now the high Council is discussing financial plans for the next five years in those spoken words. We've been looking for some of them in the budget sheets for environmental and resource projects, that sufficient funds are being laid up in the coming years for what is needed. Even if we don't discuss energy exchanges in this traffic, or things like that but stick to forestry, then, of course, you just have to ask, "What's your highest role? " A minister sees that foresting, building forestry, playing games for the binding of greenhouse gases, as well as meeting all other educational goals? Of course, it goes together, and it's afforded in the government's financial program. To be honest, I was hoping that when the Paris Convention was to be born, they would immediately take advantage of the opportunity and strike many flies in one blow by making an ambitious plan in agreement with farmers and landowners even to become part of or addition to farm contracts or government contracts and farmers for the business and business of agriculture. I would have thought that it would be absolutely appropriate to do so and to make arrangements through such contracts a significant increase in the amount of money in forestry on law farms. I think that's a very, very impressive way to raise the forest industry. The largest part of what has taken place in the past 25 years has been through the Shire forests, crops, and parts of the forest industry that began in 1990. At the best of these projects, a considerable amount of plants were achieved, but since then much less money has been spent in recent years, much less has been spent so that the construction of the resources of the resources of the forest has been greatly reduced. We'll see today, including. to what the oldest part of these foresting plants is beginning to produce, how painful it is that humans should not be able to carry on with greater intensity. Similarly, after 25 or 30 years, people will see the results of those years at least the first piece of gauze and the first use from the forests. It will also soon be a time when the forest resources here will be fully accomplished in the sense that there will be an ever - increasing number of natural crops made for timber. There is, of course, more economic development and more efficient as the resource is bigger and stronger, and it creates a much better foundation for real sustainable and productive use of thus building up the resource and as a renewable resource. It is relatively easy to maintain a forest resource once built. This is done by both nearby and distant countries, perhaps some 50- to 120 years ago, and it is now living in a relatively cheap resource that is relatively inexpensive to sustain the plant instead of what is being cut down. Some countries resorted to the Great Depression to create employment by going to the great crops on crops. That's what you did, for example. New-seers on the other side of the world. True, the climate is very good, and forest is growing rapidly, with huge forest resources from including the forest. The years up out of the Great Depression and the decades that have followed have become a flourishing industry in that country. I don't think it's necessary to argue that Iceland has circumstances at least such as climates are developing by warming, so that we can develop a highly sustainable forest resource. Of course, it is very important that all of this be done well. In this regard, the national programme is a very large step; making a comprehensive, careful forestry strategy taken into account for nature protection, memory protection, landscapes, and other aspects, in which nature forests and biodiversity are matched, and taking into account all these concerns together. Forests in relation to climate change should be one of the initiatives of the national programme, perhaps one of the carriers if a person's willingness to contribute handsomely in the coming years to building the forest resource along with other land - healing activities and recovery of land quality, recovery of wetlands, etc. I'm thinking that action in this field is probably one of the most practical ways we can attack on it. Not only do we do our part but we are investing in a future resource in the process of making much of it. There is nothing in every area when we choose a subject in an effort to reach our goals in climate. In some other cases, reaching the desired results can be very expensive. I'm not talking about, like. if, to some extent, the carbon dioxide in the coming years and so on, which, in itself, does not build up any resource, except somewhere deep in the earth, and there is a critical possibility that it will be taken over the stream of time. I want to stop at the highest. A minister entered and is considered only in the series of articles that focus on the context of forestry and land healing. It is the site of a hot potato, which has often hovered over lakes in the discussion of these issues, which is a possible uniting of land healing and forestry. Of course, I'm not going to take any unchanging and final position on this, but I have always encouraged a careful approach to the earth in those materials, but I have better developed the cooperation of these institutions. These are essentially sister institutions, both of whom have their national headquarters, the Gunnshols and the Forest in the Shire, and are very important regional institutions. Of course, I think that's exactly what it's supposed to be. It would be strange if such activities were necessary to have their headquarters in Reykjavík. I believe that the movement of the forest industry east of the Shire has succeeded, built a strong environment there, and is linked to the extensive forestry that set off at about the same time, such as in order that the Shire forest project was in its first year when the forestry headquarters moved to the east. People have even. Be concerned that if these institutions are cut together, there might be a reduction in the efficiency of the operation in either area. Of course, it is not just a view to rule over everything. On the other hand, I think it would be wise to work at integrating this in a calm way. Of course, here is still in the law on deforestation of illegalities that I think may be a grossly unchanged theme on the part of the case but here in this legislation. Of course, by the cooperation under the Forest, it's only natural to be in one place in the library. It is of utmost importance to continue to work hard with farmers, with their communities and in the parts of the country, as well as on the basis of national programmes in each part of the country where local rural areas, forestry and stakeholders are involved and can interfere with the implementation of policy. I hope it continues in good spirits from now on. Now I do not know whether to change somewhere in regard to financial support or expiration of donations and the like. It would be fascinating to hear if there were any reason for such changes. But I have not heard from today's regulations in general. All you ever hear is that there is too little money in order to be able to keep up with this operation. It's, for example. fully aware that plant production has a size advantage. It is inseparable to drag it down as much as it has been in recent years. It would be possible to obtain considerable savings in the price of unity if the position on plant production was better new or fully new and the State received a better offer. In the brain, I like it. I see, Madam President, that laws on school forestry Day are to be eliminated, No. 13/1952. I'm not quite familiar with the regulations, but I find it interesting to see this headline that this has ever been made a law. It would be interesting to know what is lost by these provisions falling from the library. At times, unnecessary refinements in reexamination of the law made it a point that for a time people wanted to clear out more and less of the law what was left of John's book of the Law, which was being defended at the council and was able to avoid such an accident. Sometimes the need to be careful that if not for anyone, it is not for good reason to clear out an old law. That was what I was going to say in my first speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u103	A respectable president. I thank you for the sound foundation this bill will receive here in his speech. Senator. He asked me about my vision of how large the forestry should have in climate. I believe that planting new forests should have a major share in climate control. We have the opportunity to do so. There's only about 1.2% of the whole country on this forest. There is nothing like the other countries that are with us in the Paris convention. Like what? Senators are aware of the agreement to reduce emissions, but we can also bind. Then there is the general standard of the Paris Convention. Not all of the factors have been provided exactly, but this is because I have in my foreign meetings, including the presence in these cases, been focusing on the share of Iceland's crops and forestry. We are quite different from other countries that are already forested and are not easily affected by land erosion or difficult land use, as we do. So it is vital that we count this into the Paris convention. It takes a little negotiation, it has to be said right now. But I want to get it off. The General knows because I keep this steady and forward to our country because we live in an environment other than any other country in Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u104	Madam President. I welcome those words to the highest degree. Minister. I feel the same way. I think the idea of deforestation and land healing and other forms of land recovery is entirely due; and of course, it is acceptable to us. It needs to be based on academic and professional grounds, so we are not trying to buy a cheap ride by which we have real research. For example, I think it is inevitable to do more research on the results of wetlands'recovery. It is too scientific to doubt on the other side of the matter for a short period of time and on the other hand. Money and employment need to be put on better research. The other is better known what it does to grow forests and restore vegetation. That's right, the forest doesn't cover much of the country, so to speak, its own forest. True, I have the feeling that nature is now a bit much in these years and forest in many parts of the world, and that it is spreading by self - abuse. It also brings warm weather and reduced stress. This trend, for example, could be helped by plants and seeds in areas where there is such a situation. It's all good as far as it goes, but the other question remains, as the highest. Minister didn't come in directly, and that's the question of money. What's the big deal? A minister of the past realizes that we can contribute to this in the years to come? Has the government appreciated it, the new one? Did people have time to plan something for this into the financial program that is now being planned? Or is it to be expected that a year, based on the work being done this year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u105	A respectable president. To answer the second question about the money, as if I had gone over with another senator earlier today, in the financial program that may not have been directly nailed down to these matters. However, we know that there is a billions increase in the environment. It's also known, I hope the members of the Parliament realize that I place a great deal of emphasis on foresting and agriculture, simply because we have all these infrastructures, it's so easy for us to add. Almost so, all we have to do is go to the store and buy more plants or more seeds. Gunnar's hole and the forestry of the Egls, where it's all there. I agree, too, with what was said in a case. A senator, that there's absolutely no reason to move it. I like the forest and land transplants taking care of the country. I described earlier that I had some ideas that not everything would have to come from a government fund regarding forestry and land healing. For example, I see that the industry should be tied up, I've had those conversations with the industry, the carbons it releases here. Although the industry has its accounts in the ETS global system, I feel that I have every reason to try to convince it to be more at peace with society. It involves the process of releasing what it releases; it affects the atmosphere. It would be perfect, I think, for this company to help with this project by going to land and forestry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u106	Madam President. The problem with a financial plan, if it goes through on the basis of a financial policy adopted here in the winter, is that you immediately sense the tendency to talk as if that were the outcome for the next few years. This year, if you find yourself reaching the conclusion after work, that it would be a useful option for Iceland to perform major operations on this field, you'll just stick the roof and hit this box. That is why one would have been better if, at least, a plan and some money had been put in, just though a fairly handsome sum, from which one would switch or play. I think it's right from the highest level. Minister here, it is relatively inexpensive and very quick to increase the activity. We have the infrastructure available. There's a lot of habitual plant production in the country. It is obvious that we can take these two, three, four million plants up to six, eight without having to cost anything. Similarly, it is clear that we could have far more powerful work on such projects as Farmers can make our country. It's just a skirmish of money. It's gonna be amazing. I know it well in several parts of the country where land transplants, what little they have been able to help farmers, come in with fertilizer and seeds. Farmers are covering all other costs. Make it a delight to do volunteer work, with its tools and equipment, drive far into the wilderness, and are retrieving seed on land. There's a lot more to do here without having to cost anything except the raw materials. Actually, it's just the question of the ingredients, i.e. about the plants, and then pay the pay that is needed to get them to a low level. And in the case of a project such as Farmers, the country is only able to produce seeds and fertilizers. [[The president calls.]] Then, of course, it is true that such contributions, such as Norway, can be helped to make more forests in their home but do so in other countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u107	Madam President. Here, one of the other groups of greens comes to the conclusion that this is a positive bill and positive implementation of laws with the eight good goals here. In particular, I call attention to the e-mercials, which say deforestation will be in accordance with strategy and nature protection, especially between 2 and 3. the law on nature protection as a protection objective. All of this is very good and good. It's a shame the bill comes so late. I'm going to discuss a few things, and I'm going to realize that the bill is presented to skimmed by various baits and to move to modern times, as far as possible, but this will both become mental and questions. In my conversations with the Forest industry after this bill was presented, it was found that stability is of utmost importance to this article. After the collapse of the economy, there was a massive setback in the forestry industry. With some 2,000 acres [2,000 ha] planted each year, there are now 1,000 acres [1,000 ha] of acres [1,000 ha], and this has continued in itself during the seven, eight years since the collapse, or after the collapse. We haven't been able to make a lot of progress yet. It simply shows that it is needed and, in addition, that stability is allowed to continue as long as possible so that the results will be successful. Second, natural forestry is a positive action in climate. It was shown in these dialogues that if the plant was four times as many as three and a half million. Well, that's not very high, then only about 1 million tons of carbon values per year would be bound, i.e. about 1/5 of our emissions except for emissions from wastelands and wetlands. You can see that there was a relatively inexpensive operation that would help considerably, away from all of the meeting laws, but simply help climate greatly with this high binding of 1 million tons. It makes you think about the government plan, like what it looks like. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came in. There's a little bed there. I would personally take the position that the State really guarantees such money, hundreds of millions, to this kind of project, but what would come from the big business or from the peoples through green taxes or what it was just a bonus. It's the same thing I said in my first speech on land healing, that the severity of the matter is so great that the public must ensure a foundation, no matter what it may be. It was also shown in these conversations that the Forest makes sometimes a question mark on this law, i.e. In 1 0... about farms, deforestation on law. Of course, she's thinking about it so that it's the farmers who use it, but it's got something on it, and I don't dare tell how much and I need numbers about it, that people from the urbanity, vacationers, people who buy farms and use summer clubs, get this scholarship some bit, some of it, and a time for forestry. The question, then, is whether this claim needs an opinion, at any rate, and whether it is somehow possible to strengthen the idea that it is primarily a farmer who practices forestry on the grounds of law. I understand it's 244 million. K. in farm forests in the next few years. There, there is no room for the rise of billions. The Environment Minister mentioned earlier that he had gone into the environment because we have repeatedly pointed out that much of it is construction and investment. It is very interesting to wonder that there are over 600 farmers who do forestry, farmforests. Where possible, forestry is a good source of land - healing work and forestry that can be used in the forests. Since both cattle and sheep are used by farmers in the Axura, it looks like you'd think it was here during a long time when the farm animals walked almost self in forests and grasslands. It is possible to get very far and to make a great deal of support. The growth of forest is of utmost importance because it has been found that no vegetation survives stress, whether by floods, ash, or by other natural events, as well as by Icelandic bush, birchwood, the vast, massive forestry of the forest. The more the forest in the country, the more powerful ecosystems we are to foster, I don't speak all around the forest too because it's usually where forest gets its way, too, into land all around the forest. Now it is in Iceland that these 1,000,3,500 square miles of bush and birch forest multiply relatively slowly because of not enough money in the forest no matter what they come. It is very nice to see the results of Hiklu Forests, the results of the work that is going into motion in the vicinity of the villagers, but the work needs to be worked very hard and multiplied. This was also shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfuson has become an important part of the development of birch forests in Iceland. To see how fast the forest is growing where pacification is or what a moderate amount of bait is, we need to travel to the city of Geldinganes at Reykjavík. What a joy that is! When this is compared with forestry to timber, I understand that long ago, when Hákon Bjarnason was here a woodforest, people calculated that 600 square miles of forest would be renewed as long as the trees were cut to survive the timbering use of Iceland at that time, likely decades ago. Now I don't have new numbers, but I'm picturing a forest 20 times 20 miles. It's not big, and if there's a dispute in many parts of the country, we're not talking about any huge areas that are going to disappear under the U.S.forest, even though this would ever be realized, hundreds of square miles of crops. Of course, it is very important to choose the right land for that forestry. I think it's important that we come out of this to have the degree. Regarding the big part of the forest, both the jungles and the crops, i.e. The plant production, in addition to conversation with the fine people in the forest, tells me that plant production has been very active and that they are fighting in the banks of the few facilities that have been produced. Now there is no government station anymore, these are private stations and they have a very difficult time preparing what is needed because of the small forestry. So, there is much work to do in terms of environmental issues and nature, not to mention sustainable development. It's very interesting if you think about sustainable development and remember three of its main priorities, how well forestry would fit in that goal, i.e. land transplants, improvements in ecosystems, natural reforms, forestry that support communities where they operate, and then forestry that yields some profit. It is so obvious that sustainable development in Iceland takes steps forward every time we add to the forestry industry. This bill waits for discussion and work at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee. Because I'm sitting there, I'm gonna be glad to get it to tell you. I'd like to bring it up at the end to the top. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon mentioned, i.e. adjustment of the law and possible further structural change. I discussed it precisely in the context of a previous week's talk about land healing that I have become a spokesman for a resource agency to be set up where land transplants, peaceful territory, national parks, and other items would be saved. This cup would then be removed from the EEA and would carry out its surveillance and administrative role, which it prostrates largely but completely in its arms. This would be beneficial if these two institutions existed, resources institutions alone, and the Agency had a changed arrangement. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister how she feels about the injections, which are not new and received to her predecessor on a memo from e.g. Sveinn Runólfsson, former land transplant manager. There is no need to worry that such an institution would be necessary because the EEA and other institutions already have national offices and could therefore have their headquarters outside the city of Reykjavík. Thus, the whole of the community could be very well cared for, despite the existence of such an institution. Forests have sometimes been viewed as strange by many people in Iceland. Man looks at the land as it is and forgets that here was some kind of tree plant in 20 to 30% of the country some 1,000 years ago. You look at a forestless country, even desolate and think it's the natural condition of Iceland, which, of course, it's not. I've sometimes pointed out that we've come here and changed forests and wetlands, and so on. in a field of local and foreign species. Why should we not transform land areas into forests with domestic and foreign species at the same time? We live here, you know, three hundred thousand and four hundred. a man soon has changed his shape and will continue to change the shape of his land. Restored land quality does not mean that we are retrieving the land as it was 1,000◯1,200 years ago. So, all the way to the top. It is also important to remember that carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide can be absorbed, as noted earlier, but there is another way to use the gas, whether from aquifers or from energy - consuming industry, and by producing both methadone and methadone. The Mole is already produced. The evaluation has been intended to produce the hydrogen and carbon dioxide found in the geothermals since, in fact, hydrogen is produced by electron. But we have an important addition to domestic fuel production, which is, of course, one of the keys to Iceland's climate as much as wood and land healing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u108	Excuse me, Chief. Mr President, I was so late for an answer. I was asked what I thought about ideas. A senator for a resource institution. I answer briefly because I promised my eight - year - old son that I would watch with him at Euroviion, I hope it will work. But I just like those ideas, and I'm thinking about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u109	Mr. President. I'm not going to stop anything that has to do with Euroviation, so I'm not gonna say anything anymore. But I'm happy to hear what the Minister says. If there are many of us who can think of reevaluating the number of institutions in Iceland and creating more powerful and better institutions for the special aspects, it's a real pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u110	This is obviously a very musical meeting we're having here. President wants us to remember to turn off our phones, but especially when the rings are so good, it's a pleasure. It was Bob Dylan, that's what I said, I wasn't quite sure if it was Bubbi or Dylan, but it's obviously Dylan. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u111	A respectable president. I apologize for all the noises that came with me, although Dylan is now enjoying everyone's life. I'm not going to have my case way too far. A minister may now have quality time below. It would be best for the president to take into account the program that all will have such moments, but it would likely be out of my family's valley if I did not address forestry, since for decades the forestry has been there, owned by someone from my family. My great-grandfather sold his first skirmish, then my grandfather. That's a lot of forestry there. I have seen firsthand how much forestry can do, such as all of us but perhaps even more close - to - hand, especially in this area where Helkla regularly acts on his surroundings. I'm not going to have my case very far, just so I can tell my cousins that I've spoken up. Yet, I'm going to mention certain things that others have. People have talked about and so only to come up with similar viewpoints as I mentioned in my conversations about land healing when we discussed it last week. It's good to be interested. Minister of deforestation and healing. There is no doubt about it. There have been many reports of such issues as environmental and climate issues. I still have to say the word. Councilmen who have talked about it, and I have done so myself before, that it would be better if it were more apparent what money was going to follow with the elevated ideas that I believe in, and that the funds were higher. A billion more, said the highest. Minister before. I think, on a normal year trip, it would be only normal development for this class of languages that has become more and more important. But in the position we are now; we've just signed climate targets, we've signed a Paris meeting, we've just discussed and received a climate report as the highest level. The Environment Minister called a ◯black report, if I recall correctly, and took very seriously, to state that the government does not mean what it says in these matters, that the funds of this seminar class are not being increased much more than it really does. Billions of this party, it's not much, it's gotta be said right now. Of course, money may be found elsewhere, but in view of the fact that there are very little goals to reach, it is. I was very pleased with the way I responded. Environment Minister on the climate report. I felt a new tone of voice, and I praised the highest. Minister here in a pit because a minister did not draw a feather over the position that exists there. She spoke inconspicuously about the projects ahead of her, and she did not do what I have done even though many rulers have done too much in the past, i.e. She did not paint some image of Iceland and previous environmental achievements, but she faced the problem and seemed to be taking a firm stand. So when I saw the financial plan and saw the small amount of money on these matters, the frustrations became even greater. We'll discuss forestry here. Hv. People before me have entered it, and indeed the highest. Minister, too, how much opportunity there is there. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson did a fine job of reviewing the park after a collapse which is actually inexplicable, since it is not the amount of money that should have been saved. V.E.G. In the past, a minister said that all the interiors were there, almost just to go to the store and buy plants. I completely agree with the Minister on that. You see, I think just to increase money to the plant market - and certainly, some employees would have to be hired to care for planting and other things, but not everywhere. It's all there to make significant improvements. We know where we should be headed with this. We just discussed the climate report. It simply says that if we are going to reach the environmental goals we have undergone, it takes two to four times the forest to respond. The budget does not show that this is to be done. There has been no digestion of the fact that there is an increase in money. Because the State's forestry has not been funded, and the cutoffs taken by society, the economy, have not been replaced, have not been properly replaced. There are only very few greenhouses left, and they don't do very well. If nothing is to be done in the years ahead, if there is not to be added, which I really hope will be done, then the environment may become something else when it comes to plant and plant sales. We're not talking about some huge amount. We are talking about a few hundred million people, perhaps needed to make the two or four times in the required forest culture. Several hundred million in one billion, however, are a bit much. That's where my frustrations are the best. I'm glad to hear it. A minister is on business with some party, the industry, and others, to perform such a project. I do not rejoice that the will of such parties depends on the willingness of such individuals, that it is necessary for companies to contribute funds so that we take these matters seriously, as we talked about at the beginning of the council and the highest. At the beginning of the assembly, a minister spoke, and I rejoiced at the beginning of the assembly. I would have preferred that we take these matters seriously. I've thought too much of it when it comes to discussions about financial plans that the management parties make a little out of each other. Sometimes financial programs are one of the most sacred frames to be held within the next five years, especially from the highest level. Secretary of finance, but then the highest number. Some Prime Ministers, some of them, like they're all on board. I will fight that place will be a guardian for the Constitution of the Alduke's financiership. I'm the highest. Environment Minister to take advantage of the well-being I know is here in the hall to bring more money into the suit. This is a proposal for a financial agenda. I think if it's the highest. An environmental minister would use the suggestion that a change in environmental spending proposal would be made so that from more money would be crumbling when the forestry that we are up here at one another would be declared to be so important, I think to the highest degree. A minister came to realize that she had more to do with it at the Assembly Hall. But in general about this bill. For the most part, I'm going to refer to my comments in the field - healing discussion. There I came only to fear a little bit that with this new rule -- now you have to take care of your words in terms of the legal terms - of some kind of universal law, or what you might call them, the forestry laws and the land - healing laws, it's going to attach it to a root system at our place today. I'm not necessarily sure that's a good idea. I don't have a fixed suggestion or policy on what would be the best part of it, but I am convinced that the right thing to do is to sit over it and look at it. It has been referred to as the integration of institutions and other factors, even new institutions, there are some factors that have been considered here. I would have advised the highest. A minister to look into matters a little further and to bring a fuller policy in these matters in the fall, because to a large extent, this is based on the work of the former government. Besides, I haven't heard the argument against going on, like... Together. I've heard: Yes, we're ready to examine it at some point in the future. I think that by accepting these total laws and this system now we are supporting it. But that does not have to be the case. We'll see how it goes, but that's what I'm worried about. I've talked about it, and I'm going to finish my case here, and I'm going to have to repeat the fact that we're going to need to examine this whole network, and then the whole group and where it is in the system, including here in the Senate, that the dormitory should be number one, two and three. It should be in the foreground, so the institutions under it, one or two or three, or how many there are some kinds of institutions around the home, not that you really have to wonder what belongs where in any institution, but that's the home of all the guests, to which it is some extent, but it's just divided down now. I think it needs to turn things upside down and put them in foregrounds. I can't wait till I get to the top. A minister will consider some of the things she has shown herself ready to do in these discussions, both in this matter and in the matter of land healing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u112	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of marine and coastal systems. The bill was based on the work of the Environment and Resource Minister and in extensive consultation with the Ministry, agencies, the European Union of Iceland and other stakeholders. In addition, the Environment and Resource Ministry made some changes to the bill following a narrative procedure where the bill was also presented on the Ministry's website. The design of marine and coastal areas is a new topic for planning in Iceland. This subject has been under way in recent years, with various analyses and reports on the situation. There have been reports of increased diversity in marine and coastal areas and a growing demand for a clear need for planning in these areas. To place such planning on governments and thus the obligation to enforce such an organization, it is necessary to refer to legal planning of marine and coastal areas. If this bill is to become a law, it will be a turning point, since there has not been a prior plan on the marine and coastal waters of Iceland. The legislature laws deal solely with the strategy of rural society and take into account areas within their jurisdiction. The bill takes into account, among other things, the aims of the 2015/226 national planning policy aimed at the more clear and efficient planning management of marine and coastal areas and sustainable use and planning. For example, the objective of the bill is to guide the needs of citizens of the country, health and security and to provide the basis for the wide range of sustainable uses and protection and to ensure that the rightness, justice, and cooperation are assured. In view of the reasonable use of marine and coastal areas, everyone's interests are essential to decision-making. Therefore, the bill suggests a policy on marine and coastal systems will always be developed in national planning. There will also be the basis for the development of a coastal system that will set up areas to be organized. Areas defined as coastal areas of the bill range from the networks to a specific reference line at sea. Thus, the territory is out of law-enforced rural society and is thereby in the custody of the State. The bill expects the development of a coastal zone structure in areas defined as coastal areas. It is suggested that the Environment and Resource Minister direct a so-called Regional Council responsible for the construction of a coastal structure for a specific area. The Council is expected to appoint representatives of the local Minister who would make more part of the council as well as representatives of rural society and the Union of rural society. Organization also plays a key role in the implementation of the law. Among other things, the Agency is intended to monitor the implementation of the organization, such as the guidance for licences and the use of marine and coastal resources. The Agency is aimed at caring for the development of a coastal zone structure and providing advice. Then it is designed to monitor the development of organizational issues, including the need for design and change in a specific coastal system. The bill specifically points to the role of the institutions and water - treatment committees, which serve as regional planning and planning agencies for counselling and providing the necessary data for organizational work. At the end of the bill, there was a discussion of the lack of perspective over activities practiced in marine and coastal areas that are dependent on various legislation and allowing several institutions. The primary obligation, therefore, is to allow the legislators and managers to ensure that all marine and coastal activities are in line with current coastal systems. Furthermore, the obligation to allow the Agency to provide information on the published licenses published by the Agency on the Agency's website is mandatory. If this bill is legal, it can be assumed that its benefits will be high for stakeholders, societies, and, in fact, the whole community as a whole. The decision to use technology and protection through the development of a coastal zone organization will be based on a policy adopted by the legislation of the legislator following a wide-scale consultation process which will be carried out in cooperation of the state and rural society on the basis of specific objectives which include overall interest in public, varied and sustainable innovations, based on ecosystem approach and overall vision, as well as other important factors. With the bill, the rural communities are allowed access to decision-making outside their jurisdictions and are thus able to protect their interests, including those relating to sectoral development. The establishment of a coastal zone structure will be expected to solve the problems facing stakeholders and a simple decision-making decision on the implementation and procedure of the legislatures based on the current programme for action and activities in the designated region. The bill made it clear that the demand for a specific activity in certain areas along the shores of the country has been high. The informers who designated a specific area in that regard all pointed to the Western land as one of the important areas to work as a first coastal system for, and mostly because of growing fish farming. In view of this, the provision of the bill is preliminaryly proposed to begin working on a coastal area structure for the West in 2018. In addition to the above, there are some laws that are presented to conform to this bill, including organizational laws and other laws regarding the individual licences. Among other things, the permission team may delay decision-making for a certain period of time if it is proposed that a coastal zone structure for the area has already been advertised. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u113	A respectable president. Marine and coastal planning is a group of paintings that I'm really interested in. In previous talks, I called out that this law would take place in the light of the available tasks, e.g. and then plan a fish farm. Yet, when I look at the already existing bill, the alarm sounds as I see it. First, when there are nine meetings days left on the program, the bill is presented, and a case that affects 11 different national laws needs to be dissected. Second, I'm concerned that my community's planning isn't being done that far below my head. In the 5th. The bill for the Regional Council is said to have three relevant departments ship each individual. Thereafter, the secretary of the environment is required to ship the Chairman of the Committee. There are four representatives of the Iceland Government. Then rural areas have the right to take two men into the Regional Council, along with one representative of the Icelandic Community and thus have no greater share, and thereby organizational authority in their own coastal areas. The assumption is that there are no more than seven committees. It does not improve, however, that rural communities agree on measures to take, that each member of the State has a denial and therefore has to be united with the representatives of the State, but communities may then disagree on their own. Therefore, the arrangement offers compromises in which a community and state can make a decision that has a negative impact on their neighbors. But neighboring communities cannot make common decisions about, e.g. In case a representative of the transport minister is not concerned about this. So I suggest that this article of the law be reviewed with the aim of equalizing the level of power between rural society and the state. It is also being carried out rather strongly as to the change in the content of a private network structure. Therefore, while invasive measures can be determined with no right to deny the local community, it is also awkward to move planning to invasive measures. So I would say that we don't take this code longer than the review process of this council, since this is a huge and significant change in organizational authority all around the country. It is shameful for this to run on the shores like a minor songpiece on a songbook with a ball pen. I'm glad that the bill is done so that it can be managed over the summer with the hope that it will not be solved so quickly before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, for taking part in the 1st. ... aboutit. I want the case to be well discussed, and I expect the Environment and Transport Committee to send it out for review, but then it will be as big as it is, discussed calmly. I do not stress that this will be over in a few days before the end of the council, just not at all. However, it is vital that we make it known. It's urgent, like a beard. A senator knows, about to organize these areas, especially in the West. I think it's a misunderstanding, I hope, in a matter of course. When a senator speaks as he speaks, the way of being a member of the community's planning. The rural communities have not had this planning. This is a so - called ocean society of government custody. We know, of course, but it is important to plan, not just by a certain community, but especially because of the overall interest and harmony. I've stressed it, and I want my rural communities, through the regional councils, to get access there. There could have been a way of not letting it go. That would have seemed foolish to me. I want the locals involved. But, of course, an organization in marine and coastal areas is not the local community that is exactly on that coast, but the public interests of the world and these issues are to be discussed as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u115	A respectable president. It's stated in the bill itself that there are coastal zones being defined from massive shock and a hundred feet to shore. Companys have systems within the grid, i.e. 115 m from medium-sized activity. So something is definitely being changed. But what I'm most concerned about is in Deuteronomy. ..... all this denial power, which the state-bath has, but the communities do not. Either the denial of being both a community side and the state side will have to be no denying power and much more. Rather, I felt that I had a great balance of power and was concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u116	A respectable president. This is a new organization in non - net areas, so that it is clear, and so on. So briefly because of these limits of authority, or who has caused it, I also want to be less than the highest. Since members of Congress are elected representatives of their territory, they could be ministers of the seminary dealing with this organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u117	A respectable president. It says here at 2 st. very clear: This law covers marine and coastal areas from a line set of 30 ms of land relative to a medium-sized stream to the outside limit of the economic law. Which is likely to mean the land side, that side, and therefore, from big tide to shore. Not unless I don't understand geography. It's simply this denial power in this very strange thing to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u118	Mr. President. A variety of activities are now being carried out in marine and coastal areas around the country, and obviously some of the basic factors involved in maintaining and protecting the environment and also the sustainable use of natural resources and the implementation of sectoral living in that area together. The bill for the treatment of marine and coastal systems includes a number of new organizational indicators in Iceland. I agree with the highest. Environment and resource minister on the basis and need of the legislation, especially as a result of a growing demand for activities as well as the need for clear and efficient planning and regional planning management. Then I agree with the objectives of legislation and the policy of marine and coastal policies proposed to be developed and stated on the main topic of the bill to become so further developed and divided by coastal systems. I realize that there are differing opinions on the subject and the implementation of the bill, just as is expected in the case of new legislation in that area. That's why I think it's important to 1st. if they have a point of view and come out. This may be an important road for short - term coverage and work. Environmental and Transport Committee. The discussion is likely to deepen and to contribute to a more careful application of the Law. Although I have declared that I am a true follower of the bill, in principle, to the highest views. The Environment and Resource Minister suggests, and the main ingredient of the bill, to my opinion, there are a number of factors to pause at. There are a number of tools presented in the material pages of the bill. I'm not going to be in this discussion to trace details or cross the bill a team for a team, but I think it's better to wait, but I believe that the main reason for breaking up is why you're just staying around and can be the best for you. Environment and Transport Committee for further evaluations between 1 and 2. The bill. That point is the organizational administration, as it is shown in the bill, the focus of a division between state and rural society. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister did well over the input of the bill in his history, how the management board is conceived in the bill, and, in principle, I agree with it. It is true that we are doing such issues in a way that the Lawgiver sets up the box, provides purpose, purpose, and theme of the work to be done by the management board. Similarly, I agree that the Minister of Environment and Resources is the head of the seminary and that the Organizational Office has a role for surveillance and advice. Similarly, the government, the minister at that stage, is against the overall planning of marine and coastal areas. It's in harmony with existing planning laws as reflected in a landscape planning plan, if I handle them correctly as defined. What we have to stop is whether the management board as listed in the regional bill is suitable and whether or not to consider further arrival of rural society on the basis of rural self-control rights as presented in the 78th st. The Constitution, which says that rural communities should control their own affairs according to law. What would have to be discussed in committee work between the 1st and the 2nd. and call for viewpoints about how much of that operation is satisfactory in the bill and whether there are viewpoints based on so-called cohesion, which may be given increased significance in the bill. However, the local rule, which is not specifically expressed in any part of Icelandic legislation, states that decisions involving rights and obligations and other areas of the city should be taken as close as possible to its citizens. In the case of Iceland, tasks that may be on the table of rural partners should be on their table. The task that must be to be at the next level above, on the hands of the State, shall then be done there. The important thing is to examine carefully how the mechanism of action takes place. I can see that there is a pretty good arrangement to be created where the state, where a minister is in charge of the seminary, can be formed on the basis of setting a policy on the overall structure, as currently established planning laws are expected to eliminate, i.e. The field, determining which policy should be proposed, how it should be laid down, and the broad lines that need to be present. It could then depend on the local community or, according to local legalities, within the framework decided by the government, both the Minister and, of course, the lawgiver, to set certain matters which may be relevant for rural society, for each province and may be relevant for its inhabitants, that they have something to say on how certain factors should be handled or what exactly should be permitted, or how to integrate different employment practices which are not fully compatible. It is discussed here that focuses on organizational matters. You're right. You're right. The Environment and Resource Minister says that somehow it is necessary to react because this is just another case, that rural society does not have organizational authority according to local legislation but has to deal with Internet law. So the question is, what do we do with Internet law? What is the significance of the Internet law in this regard? If we start at the beginning, it can be said that Internet laws are based on nothing more than ancient guidelines used for conditions and activities that existed then. This is a rule of principle, this is a rule of length, which was set because men did not have better devices to distribute, so to speak, or better criteria to distribute at that time, some time ago. Today, the age is literally different and broad, and our community is more complex, more advanced, more technological, and so forth. In itself, therefore, there is no basis for a law to rule out another rule. It can be any kind of thing. We need to discuss what that may be. This may be objective standards, such as certain length units from the coastal region, for the formation of 1 sailor. It can take into account a depth in the ocean or something like that. What I've presented here adds up to the fact that there's nothing to say and to tie the lawgiver to target lines other than Internet law alone. It can be seen from other viewpoints. Then, if you can look to a reference other than a net law, ask yourself, " Is it necessary for the community's organizational authority to back it up too? ' The current legislation assumes that local organizational matters are in the hands of rural society. There is evidence that we should carefully review and discuss, whether in this matter that concerns marine and coastal areas is a reason for our organization of administration and for the division to become a member of the community's organisational authority. Of course, they should comply with the laws and framework set out, and they cannot go beyond the overall policy of ministers within the legal requirements involved. Still, it would also be the responsibility of the Agency to monitor such activities in the rural areas. The bill reviews the design of marine and coastal areas in other countries close to us, picking up how the European Union has shaped total legislation or a total frame based on a directive. It is still unique in the European Union to further expand legislation or coastal legislation, depending on the situation and content at any given time. It says that the main thing is based on Scottish legislation, the main focus of the formation of specific regional bodies. There's quite an overview of this in the report. It also says that in the case of Sweden, they have decided to take the approach that rural planning will extend to the weekend, up to 12 miles [12 km]. Lands around us have traveled different paths. This is what we need to look at, I think. We need to evaluate what is suitable. There is a view and evidence in these important environmental categories, to the practical and sustainable use of various natural resources around the shores of the country, that we look to their viewpoint. There are other factors to consider. They need careful action. I'll give you an example of the law against the 18th chapter. The bill involved in what will be understood when new rules become valid, what will happen to the application of the current application. I think this is a point that we need to take a closer look, especially the time limit, and get information about how we do it best.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders, in which there was a rather detailed and good speech, has some opinion about what we need to take into consideration when it comes to this matter, for it is in no simple matter. Hv. A member of the body of elders handled a number of the matters of opinion, of action. There we see overlaps between regional and primary and disorganization schemes and then back-to-end zones. There are a small number of questions that depend on a transition between state and rural society that need my own knowledge to take a very well - founded stand and cannot be put on when these matters come, no matter what the outcome, they say. Einarsson I'm going to need some good work for Björn. We're gonna go for a second. A senator now sits at ease. The Environment and Transport Committee to address this issue will be discussed. Because I like it. A senator asks basic questions, and I agree that a problem in this matter needs very good action, I would like to ask: A senator said that there will be a time to answer these fundamental questions in such a matter at the time that remains of this council? Because it's a pretty big question about the government-and-communications team as well as its partners. A senator hit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm not going to go against being a great prophet on the progress of Congress here, according to the General Work Programme. Of course, this is determined by various factors, other matters under consideration. Hv. A senator specifically asks about this bill, and I'm glad to hear that he responds to the speculations I have about what was worth looking at in the bill and such. I suggest that we focus on the subject. Then there's others, not just me or a boy. A senator, to see what the time is worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with the view that there are major issues on this bill. I'm a great spokesman for careful administration, like what? A senator, and I listened attentively to a talk. A senator found some interesting things that will be exciting to do more. I mention, for example, without taking any direct position on it, another guidelines for Internet law, meters, depth, or what it is. This is very interesting and needs to be examined. I can assure you what. Senator that he will receive my support within seconds. The environment and transport committee to handle this matter carefully, dig into the information he came in on, and work this case so that the best of the work will be done, I'm not talking about when we're discussing establishing new guidelines other than those who have been here for a long time. They need a lot of thought. A senator can be confident that he will be able to get my support in the work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u122	Mr. President. I'm happy as hell. A senator says. I think we agree on the need and purpose of the law, agreed on the objectives of laws as reflected in Article 1. The bill. On the ground, I agree with the information contained in the bill that turns even. to the administration. This is a new decision, and this gives the General a reason to pause and consider creating fundamental factors that can change the division of countries and communities, which may have the regulations of the constitution to guide and assess the importance of certain aspects of society's decision within the bounds of the Law. And, for example, in a case of curfews of any kind, that there is a need for such activity, rural communities look to the course, the overall policy, which has been shaped by a minister when they plan to organize. I can just imagine that the devices presented on the bill called the Regional Council can be relevant to the molding of such a global policy, and after the decision made by a community, as in current planning laws, and then, for example, have been established. The Organization monitors such activities. That kind of management I see that I can walk right up there and I think we should take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u123	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize marine and coastal systems, and it won't be the first time. This case has a very long history here at the council. In fact, it is the type of legislator that results from a condition in a sense unacceptable, i.e. The kind of legislature that we're trying to track things down, i.e. We're looking at a situation that we may not have anticipated, a particular conflict, as it were, between users who are interested in the use of marine and coastal areas and governments who have the position to protect the public interests of the time completely. Then there are both countries and societies, and that is even so that their attitude does not necessarily go together. Thus, it is a challenge for the Lawgiver to grasp the source of the situation, allowing the process to take a long time and to work hard. I'd especially like to celebrate what's being said in the grandest case. Environment and resource minister in response. She believes it takes a long period of pregnancy, both here at the council and in dealing with stakeholders. We'll see here, in the best report and text with the bill, that the conference has been done so far by the Ministry. In part, the discussion and discussion on basic factors are behind us, and we would expect the bill to be mature enough to achieve success. Yet, we need to realize this, and this has only been a result of protests and talks, that the interests of all may not be shared. When a new organizational law was adopted here at the General Assembly with all votes in 2010, it was a vastly large law that covered a review of the case of the entire population, a very important case of action that is responsible for the provision of land, planning or organizational rural society by incident, the introduction of public decision making, etc. Soon, and of course it could be said that they already had a lack of perspective over the activities taking place in marine and coastal areas, which appeared in the report of the Sea Eliminators and Agriculture Ministers, as reported in 2011, on the assessment of valid laws and regulations on implementation and activities by the coasts and in the economic history. I'm reminded, I don't find it in the text, that the conclusion was that there were four agencies and 11 organizations when everything was considered to be involved at some point and was not considered to be the local position that was specifically added. As mentioned in the bill, we are here talking about a number of practical uses, i.e. energy efficiency, man - made, crops, or crops of crops, resources, shelters, traffic and transportation, outings, tourism, fishing, and other factors. We already have a huge, diverse group of stakeholders who already have interests for a particular relationship and use in marine and coastal areas. Therefore, as former environmental and resource ministers, I would like to advise the Council on the basis of what is needed to achieve success in this important matter, for I am glad that it is made known. I'm not going to criticize that it's late. I think it is, in fact, when the year is spoken of for such a matter, because there is a need for any effort to make such a case legal; and then it should be given sufficient counsel to get the case settled and hopefully make it even better this summer. I want to inculcate both the minister and especially the chairman of the committee I see sitting in the hall in order to make a considerable effort to make this solidarity, simply because of what it is done. This was done at the time under the circumstances, though, in this Council of 2010, when we put together new organizational laws because it is a matter of rich public interest and interest in nature and the environment for a long time. The Act of the Act says that it is the purpose of the law that marine and coastal resources' use and protection will be in accordance with an economic, social, and cultural structure guided by their health and safety. Also referred to ecology dating, full vision of the marine environment, to ensure correctability in planning procedures and to ensure consultation and cooperation with rural areas, to consult the public and other stakeholders, and to ensure professional planning of marine and coastal projects. I would like to mention that in this brief talk here at 1st. that the committee was particularly concerned with the access of the public at all levels of decision making. The contract is something that we lent to the law at the time and is about increasing access and clear access to public decision-making processes and information at all levels. What's the point? This is in order to prevent disagreements when a protocol has been issued, i.e. It is not as if some have given in to the weather, opening charges against an organization or an environmental organization or, of course, that are of great importance, but primarily to try to prevent such situations from occurring because all people are listening to different opinions throughout the process from beginning to end. So I would like to inculcate the committees in particular the Communication Convention, the introduction of the public at all levels and the possibility of presenting their comments. The bill suggests that the Council is responsible for the construction of a coastal structure and that a minister is responsible for up to seven regional plannings to care for the development of coastal areas in a designated area and to revise it. This is done in a relatively unusual way and in a slightly different way than the organizational arrangement in general. That is why a very rich mutual understanding is needed between rural society and the State in these matters. It is, of course, in accordance with law highly loyal and transparent processes, i.e. in the development of rural society and in the 2010 laws on regional planning in general and how to conduct consultations, advertisements, deadlines, etc. of these substances. Here it is assumed that a minister who handles energy and travel, a minister who handles water resources and a minister who handles transportation should each have one representative at the regional level. The local community has one representative and one representative of the European Union, and then, of course, it's a representative of the Environment and Resource Minister who is chairman of the Regional Council. I suppose, when this is the case, and at the same time, it is considered in a good chapter for consultation, that the Union of Icelandic rural society and the mostly breathed communities, as it were - the ones that are on the west and the east side of the matter according to the situation - would agree with the proposal. But it came out, in the fine speech of the Lord. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, a variety of speculations that are important for the committee to examine, especially in these topics. In addition to the provisional directives, the EEA has already started working on coastal areas for the West at the beginning of 2018. There we are far from starting at a starting point, because there is a lot of work that has already been done, and much as much knowledge in the region of the opinion that has come up and will be involved, as well as that of the rural communities with a lot of experience in cooperation and agreement on regional planning in the region. In a chapter that follows the bill for consultation, it is specifically stated that in general reviews, it would be a delight to suggest that organized marine and coastal areas were to be established, but comments were most likely to overlap in rural development, their legal history and that the concept of coastal areas and sea areas would have to be further defined and to limit the boundaries of coastal planning. This, of course, is an enormous challenge. One is to define these terms and draw the line, as it were, but most important to me, it is that there is trust between the members of the case; whether it is national planning or the site that is presented in the bill, i.e. The Regional Council, or the rural community as such. It's just the subject that's up here. It may not be easy to find out that this is quite complicated. The bridges are prepped, and in this bill, they are being tried to control them in a way that is impervious. I want first and foremost, a respectable president, in this discussion, to celebrate the conduct of the case. It comes from all the backwaters of the terms that VG's member sat in the office of the Environment and Resource Minister and reflects that this is not a matter of one night. This is a subject that takes time. I'd like to finish my case by staging them to the point. Environmental and Transport Committees that they try to get a good grasp of the situation, both political and non-political in terms of their communities and others on the topic of machines. I think it's a lot more like that than putting under all leaks in a case like this because there's gonna be a lot of things going to happen, it's gonna be complicated all the time. Most important of all, there are guarantees to handle opinions, much more than loyalty to them in a bill like this. It needs to be a mutual understanding of this and confidence in the processes that result in the outcome of opinion, for it will indeed come into play in the complex issues discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u124	V.E.G. President. This bill of marine and coastal planning is taking a new step, as shown in today's discussion. We are taking important steps to be careful. The solutions are complex, and many questions remain when it comes to the use of this resource and the organization of the areas. This emphasise the wide range of uses based on overall vision, ecosystem approach, nature protection and sustainable development. That's good. It's a good thing we have this case. I want to agree with the members of Congress who have spoken before that it is very important that we succeed here and take care of all this work. A strong reaction has been observed from rural governments, especially in the east and west, where these rural communities are most relevant. It has been suggested in their case that the suggestions in this line of resistance to the principle of promoting local power and decision making in terms of the public interest and reasonable management of public funds. The recent trend has been that more and more projects have been taken to rural communities. That's why these reactions are made by local representatives, and that may not be strange. That's why I think it's very important that we take this matter along in harmony with it and take a good look at all the important work that lies ahead of us. It was the point that I was going to bring along and urge the committee and those who come to this work to hear the subject carefully and discuss the matter and to resolve the matter in as much harmony as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u125	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the legal handling of crowns that depend on specific restrictions. The bill is a factor in the government's disposal measures, and it is presented in clear sources for the assessment of the accounts laid down in the law. As a review, the law stated that national property should be maintained on the bank accounts that depend on specific restrictions, as well as on an electronic record of national property, which should be included in the administrative accounts of Iceland's Secret Bank. This was made so that it would be possible to take the next step in the disposal of a budget and create a free international exchange with Icelandic dollars again without any threat of financial stability or stability in the gangs and money markets. These laws were passed last May at the General Assembly. Since then, major steps have been taken towards the full emissions of the sector as we know it, this last March of this year, when the majority of them were removed. The main reason for the bill being submitted is that following our visit to the World Bank Fund in spring, it was suggested that 1 1 1. track No. 37/2016, which deals with the general assessment documents of closed accounts, is not in line with the creation of the World Bank, where, under that assessment warrants, certain subsidies do not fit into business balances. It was also shown by the fund that the situation for Iceland's resources has changed as a result of improving economic situation here and the government's efforts to release capital waste. Undivided, the fund would make a comment to these points at its meeting in June. The changes presented here are first of all: the general assessment warrant in Article 11. The law will be cleared, and in addition to the existing warrants, it will be authorized to take out the contracts of the capital loans for the end-days and their compensations. It is also suggested that the assessment on the basis of the directive will no longer depend on the official confirmation of Iceland's National Bank but will be sufficient to inform the bank within five days of the assessment. Second, it is suggested that individuals be evaluated in Article 12. The law's going to go up, or it's going to be worth a million dollars. According to the World Bank, these changes will not have a major impact on the emissions of currency, but the sum suggested by the bill to be allowed to transport is estimated to be less than a billion dollars or less than 0.5% of the snow - handed, as it was in the beginning of March. A respectable president. The crucial step being taken in the bill is to resolve in the lip but certain steps that have been created by the so - called Offensive Lands. In addition to the positive effects the bill would have approved of landowners, Iceland is becoming closer to meeting in all respects and not leaving out the international commitments that the country has undergone in terms of money movement between countries. Thus, the approval of the bill can contribute to a positive conclusion at the International Cash Fund right now in the summer as to what commitments are involved and which are based on the budget of Iceland's budget. Thank you. The members of all classes who paid for this matter and have worked so that it would be a quick step during the council. It is late because of the short delay in the International Cash Fund tip, it was shown that the U.S. laws were not in accordance with the fund's charter. I suggest that the bill be referred to the highest level. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u126	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The financial and economic secretary of his history. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that I was present when these peaks were placed on assessment - here is an explanation for the owners of the land mines that have owned those properties in continuous ownership, as I understand the case, i.e. of capitalization. I'm asking if this will affect the rest of the land property that is still inside the system, if we can say so. I want to pray to the highest. Minister - now I have not been able to read the article for a word - to tell us the scope of what this authority will accomplish. What's their scope in the system? I see that this is not expected to have a significant impact on the economy or to significantly increase property emissions. This, of course, is a huge increase, of a million dollars to $100. What is the big step taken by this law? It is, then, largely exclusively a demilitarized area. Will this have to do with other crowns, which have not been kept in continuous possession since capital mastering?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u127	Mr. President. You're right next door. This is true of those who have had their possessions from the start, in fact those who were involved with Iceland before a crash. So these are not so - called vultures who have purchased demand after. It is the Cord Bank's assessment that these may be several people, but they have small amounts of money. As I mentioned in my background, it can study hundreds of millions of dollars, in itself well less than 1% of the total money level, which these debrelicts are. This, however, is not expected to affect others except this particular group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u128	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for explaining this. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to two. It says that in fact, there were not many requests to take advantage of the small authority available. It's the highest measure. The minister and the Ministry that this release of the warrant may cause these owners to release and carry them elsewhere? Is there a demand for clearance? Let's say. V.E.G. A minister here referred to AGS, but perhaps not to the question of the demand. Can a minister tell us about this? Then, for the next step, with regard to other national property. When can we expect such steps to take place? There is something that we can expect in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u129	A respectable president. I have to admit, of course, that I don't know what the demand is. I think it may have been a little small on this million dollars, since it wasn't for many people. However, based on the information I've received from the Federal Bank, these may be several members of the group who are affected by this change, if taken up to 100 million dollars. But not that it's a lot of money. There are some members, like we've crossed, in early stages, who are going around with the money. For further steps, they have not been decided. In view of this result from the premium, the position must be taken out of the position. Then we'll just go over it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u130	A respectable president. Now the bill's not very big. It's a bit complicated to read through it. Remuneration by interest rates, interest benefits, interest gains and contracts made by capital cities lends credit to the end days and their compensations - this is an enormous sentence to read through. What I'm wondering is surveillance. The Bank of Iceland shall be informed on the assessment according to Article 1. within five active days of it being taken Now it was a bit with the heads that people could try to get money out. If that was achieved by the cow bank, there was no wood. Just: No, you can't do that! Nothing happened then. How can we be sure that such funds are being exported? If this is not the case, are there any suggestions? How safe is the surveillance of the law? Is there any penalty for trying to cheat this system? You see, I consider the increase from 1 million to 100 million. It's a bit of a jump. I don't know how dangerous it is, as shown in the words of the highest degree. Secretary of finance. And where that suggestion came from, it would also be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u131	President. Maybe I'll start with the last question. In effect, the 100 million drew a small percentage of the 100 million in the last action determined by last year's recovery. At that time, Iceland's and Icelandic companies were allowed to record 100 million. There may have been no greater science behind it. Yet, we have obtained information from the National Bank on what would likely be the scope. They appreciate it in this way, that it will clean up considerably in the property collection, but it has to be remembered that this is in certain accounts and should be relatively easy to monitor. I haven't heard the concern of the Federal Bank that people can pass it on. As these assets decrease, monitoring will become easier. Perhaps few people will remain who have billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u132	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. It would be interesting to hear how the emissions of the sea were generally treated, not just in terms of this. Then we can see, in the whole of emissions being taken, whether the intended targets for emissions have been met, whether the reality has been similar to what we intended; whether there are variations between the laws we are making, the intended conclusions of the change, and then the reality that will be. It is very helpful to examine the following questions to see if this was a normal follow-up and a normal continuation in that case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u133	Mr. President. To answer, this step is not to be expected to be a significant step. This is primarily a formality, as I informed you here in my introduction, so that we will meet all conditions to which our international agreements commit us. A question will be said about why. A senator, whether this seems to be going according to plan, that if we look at evolution, the so - called snowbolt, if I recall correctly, was about 600 billion in the beginning. Now, after the last offer, there are less than 100 billion left. Of these, there are certain sums that were not expected. For example, there are investments in stocks of some 20 billion dollars. I think this is really going to be a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u134	Madam President. Earlier today, the Department of Social Affairs requested that we present a case that was on the program so that they would be on the program despite being submitted too late, saying after the Congress deadline. That's what we did. In the spirit of good cooperation here at the council, we gave this issue a form of variation, since it is so urgent. Here we are, ready to discuss this matter. But now the news is being heard on the issue of No. 13 on the agenda, on the rights and duties of foreign companies for the management of labour markets, to the highest level. A minister did not have time to make a recommendation until nine o'clock. I now find that the speed of the government is getting a little strange when it's applied for a variation, which is not necessarily acquired. But then ministers are not even ready to make a recommendation when they are due. Madam President. I suggest that there be a recession at the meeting until the highest level. A minister can come to the house and discuss the case. There is, of course, no way that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u135	Madam President. I just want to agree with this. I find it unnatural when you look to the government side and the entire council to discuss this matter, that it has the highest priority. Ministers don't have time to come here. I don't know what this is falling into the air at the Euromunion Contest. I guess there could be other reasons. But I also suggest that we take a break while the minister is getting into the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u136	Madam President. I am one of the surprised ones who were disfellowshipped from the earlier program at the meeting in the evening, and suddenly jump over the 13th part of the program, starting with the 14th, with full respect for the language being delivered by the highest court. Secretary of finance. I had prepared for a discussion of the 13th session and for the meeting program to be followed and did not know that there was anything else. So that's the news now, it's not coming soon, it's maybe 9:00 tonight as high as the highest. Minister will be ready to come here and order the case. I'm not comfortable with this procedure. I don't like our time on this. If this were to happen some time ago, it would have been reasonable to inform such individuals as those here and to have finished their work in a different way than to wait for a certain subject to be scheduled for the program to know about it. I could totally use my time for something other than waiting for a case that is then not taken for, and saying, Madam President, that it is not because I would be looking at Euroviion but because I would be doing something more useful. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u137	A respectable president. It is surprising, in the highest sense, that there is a particular request for variations in a case that then cannot be recommended. In any other situation, if it were just a matter of speech and some conversation, it would not be a problem. However, since the matter was specifically requested to be conducted on short notice, it is not reasonable that it is not followed in advance. This could even be so if the next event on the program began that a discussion about it might well be until midnight. I wouldn't be surprised because, as I've heard in the community talk, it's just that the whole thing doesn't come on tonight. I'm going down like someone else's. Senators to postpone a meeting to nine. Then we can take this matter into consideration and discuss it as it was to be done today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u138	Madam President. In the afternoon, I was one of the 40 members of the council who adopted variations on the subjects to be handled correctly. I did so on the grounds that we were here to let them that for a minister to step into a pit and recommend them, not for a minister to ever come down from a cloth and a plate. I feel like I've been deceived to accept this, like the other 39 members of the council who supported it. Since I look around in the hall, I don't see all the 39 senators who supported that evening meeting. Where are they now? Where's the Minister? Where are the people who agreed that this is a meeting on a program that is not to be held?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u139	V.E.G. President. I want to agree, I'm amazed at this progress. They're paying for it. This is done with sincerity and faith that the matter will be discussed. Now it may be the highest. Ministers have valid excuse for this absence. I'm not gonna say anything about it. But if it is not, I feel that this is an advantage of beinglittled, we intend to wait a second after a minister chooses to come. I don't think it's acceptable work, but I'm saying that if it isn't, and I have a valid reason to respect it. I may feel that we're just going to find out why and suggest that there be a break here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u140	A respectable president. It takes a little initiative to get things going on. In fact, for all of us, it is as a reminder that a minister has the means to consult with the head of the council and with the stand of the administration in order to bring matters into play. It happened in this case. I had an excellent conversation with the highest. Minister, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, about the importance and importance of discussing this matter and setting it up. In view of this, we accepted today's variation. It is only rude for the council to go through this whole process and then plan to treat those who give the variants that they are sitting and standing as the minister in question. I say, a respectable president: First of all, I think very much about the nature of the world in general and the basis for them to be granted. [[The president calls.]] And then I stress that there will be a recession on the meeting until the minister or his substitute can recommend the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u141	Madam President. This is an urgent problem in the Icelandic labour market. We last watched in the news yesterday as to how foreign bus companies are taking over the tourist business with social subs, up to 50% less pay and pay. This is serious. The minister has had beautiful words for the program here, No. 13, for example, to cope with this problem. This is an important matter, and therefore I think and I would like to say that people here were very reasonable in their good faith today and agreed to take this matter on the program because of the importance of it. But if it's not more important to the Minister, Madam President, I don't know where we are at this high council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u142	Madam President. I have to admit that as I listen to more members of the council, I've come to realize just how unfashionable this union with the European Commission is with the legislature authority. This is a case that, in our opinion, the members of the Parliament's left movement, is largely green. It's a chain responsibility. It's one of our priorities here at the council. That's why I'm not looking at Euroviation, which I'm interested in, unlike what's happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I would have very much liked to have the opportunity to do so if I had known about this change in schedule. But we're not informed. Maybe it's the best. Minister with a valid excuse. It may well be. But here we have been given to take part in a discussion about a work market very much because we were not informed about the need for a change in schedule. That's why I'm going to say something with a what. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. This, of course, sets all the variations we will be asked for from this council to a new light and a new context. It is clear that when the authority chooses to associate with the legal authority in this way, it does harm good and normal relations. [[The president calls.]] And I reiterate a requirement for a recess on this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u143	Madam President. We're coming up to the President's conference board not just for our amusement. This is a serious matter. Like what? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, came in with a comparable issue of our left green council, of chain responsibility. It's a very important thing. For the highest part of the case, variations are being made. Minister. Apparently he thinks he can make the council sit and stand by his side. It's not acceptable for the Senate to act like this. As a new minister, he should not begin his career with such bad tactics. We protest here, the council, the members of Parliament who are here to participate in this discussion. We protest all these tactics and ask that there be a break until the highest level. A minister sees fit to come to his house. [[The president calls.]] I want to know where the bottom line is. Minister is? Is he at the Euroviion party? Or where is he? We're here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u144	President. I voted against this variant today. Not because I'm opposed to the case, but because I don't like the work here at the General. This is very complicated. That should have been the most important thing ever. It is assumed that the period of narrative will be cut short, and we've just gone through the fact that the case from here on was so flawed that it would border on a violation of the Constitution. I have to say, if the minister's interest in putting this matter into the Senate treatment is no greater than that he cannot be here to discuss it with us senators, there is no basis for the lesser part to pay a way for one single case in the district of 1st. It's just that way. [[The president calls.]] I demand that we interrupt this meeting right now and the president meet with the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u145	A respectable president. In the past, at the council, we corrected a law that cost the State 2.5 billion a month. They were defective because they passed through the council in a hurry toward the end of the last term. We need to learn from experience and be careful not to get into such a situation again. This situation may not cost billions, but it does involve the rights and responsibilities of employees, foreign employees and companies. Pirates doubt that the Council can handle the matter at the time that remains. The experiences we have dealt with at this assembly show that it is very important to take care of matters and not to rush them quickly, especially if they are as complex and large as this. These are entire 65 pages, 60 articles. [[The president calls.]] It's no small matter to review all this and reviews, let alone in short notices. [[The president calls.]] We need to discuss this thoroughly and carefully with a minister who should at least be able to come here and explain his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u146	A respectable president. This is about to become a rather tired variation at a theme, having to stand here in a few times, talking about the normal interaction of the European Commission with the legislators. Last time I did it around 2:00 a.m. today. It is natural that a government that specifically represents some new action, less willingness, should act this way, with centuries - old thinking about the authority it has been granted and is represented by the Council. I've been sitting here in a councilroom like I possibly could. They're not many of the hours I've missed meetings. They are very often members of the board of directors who sit in the hall counting on one hand's fingers. Ministers who participate in discussions about cases even the top priority of the government are now not seen much here. I can't quite figure out what kind of performance this is with the legislature authority, which government goes to. [[The president calls.]] It's as if she simply didn't realize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u147	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister spoke with a group member of the United States organization and explained to her that it was very important that this matter be arranged. This is a very important thing. We have been told by other people that we should try to pay for it. That, of course, is shocking. I've been working long enough and often come to a construction site to find out what happens if the superpowers call a concrete car and tell me everything at work, and the wall doesn't show up. Then the concrete truck will either clot, or it'll go away. Here are 20 people from the people who paid for this variant's street. I'm just gonna thank the 20 people who didn't see a reason to come and hang out with us tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u148	Madam President. I'm here in the middle of nowhere trying to figure out how to find a change in the government contract. Can't find it at the moment, it may be symbolic. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] All of this goes on a good organization here - it was the ink that was destroyed, yes - and a good work ethic. [[Up front.]] And there have been new practices and other contacts with the Senate. If I recall correctly, for at some point, I read this government contract, where it says that this government is going to work on strengthening confidence, including at the General Assembly. Making the legislation more difficult and making sure that all views reach that point. It was in the spirit we agreed on to these variations today. [[The president calls.]] I must say it is not acceptable, if it is so that this has been clear since the afternoon. [[The president calls.]] I request information on when the minister was not going to be on the schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u149	President. It has to be admitted that I have never experienced anything so willing, such a releaser, one of such disrespect for the council, and the present government that sits here in the power of my heart part of the votes of the people of the land. I ask that this meeting be terminated immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] If this case is so urgent, and the minister, who requested us to pay the way, then will not be able to come and answer the members of the council if they have any questions, then will send a replacement, the highest level. Minister, who is probably less well involved in the case, I suppose - if you can just send some Minister, why doesn't the chairman of the Archivist, the Supreme Court? Secretary of finance, for the case, and now he recommends it? If that's not possible, I suggest that a meeting be terminated immediately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u150	President. By law we shall build and administration we must build upon trust. I don't see any trust here. We sat down today and voted, like before. A senator said. We're sitting right now doing what? We've been stretching the paw so hard, the trust in this government, that it's just enough. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The paw's broken. What are we gonna do? We're sitting here, flourishing, we've got a hell of a lot of work to do. There aren't many conferences left. Let's just end this meeting. And here we go. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u151	Madam President. I can't figure out what this is all about. What the hell is going on? Is Mrs. President having sent word to the Minister's office that the U.S. Congress calls for a minister to come here immediately and measure the matters for which the legislatures agreed today to pay, in the good belief that this case would be discussed tonight? What kind of disrespect is being shown to the council and to the legislature? Where's the minister, Madam President? [[The president calls.]] If the Minister is not going to show proper respect for the council and honorably, I demand that we immediately eliminate this meeting. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u152	Madam President. Together, there are a lot of easy work to do. As a result, the right control has increased to 11 stewards so that they can run into one another. That's why it was going to be the highest. Minister of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir to make a recommendation here on the highest-level case. Minister of Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson, because the minister of equal rights could not come into the house. The norm, so we paid the street of this case in some sort of deception. The secretary who was supposed to be saved couldn't make it. Madam President, it's nine to go. Nine ministers who may as well take care of these matters. Where are they? Why have we not begun discussing matters that were deceived by the World of Congress to set up a program earlier today? Madam President, I insist that the immediate recovery of the situation and the ministers be drawn to our homes for a meeting is terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u153	Madam President. I'm getting even more confused. I don't realize from the discussion whether it's the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs is abroad, and there is another minister to the Minister, or to the highest level. Social Affairs is just a bit of a press around here. Then a fellow minister who is not in the office should be cut off to make a recommendation for this matter. If it's such a ring, it's still falling apart. I prepared to participate in this matter. I suppose I thought it would be a good idea to vote for it. The matter involves something very important. Sadly, though, we may not be able to cope with this problem enough or good enough. But still: so to get a message about it here on the seventh hour, no, the program discarded, and Vág, we are to sit and wait two and a half hours until some Minister from the Upstate finds it acceptable to represent the case. This is not welcome. I believe that one of the two should be done, at least to delay or to end the meeting, for it would be very foolish to start taking this place for some other matter. [[The president calls.]] I hope the President has now received the strong messages that come from the main hall, the people who are here and who are at their jobs. They are to be taken more seriously than the others at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u154	Madam President. I'd like to hear the members of the board, whether they feel that this is a normal procedure. In due time, they will be in a position of government. Would they accept such practices? I'm just asking. I think a sound would be heard from the corner if such a strategy were on the hands of someone other than their own. I'm afraid so. That's why I think they should collect into the spade and react to this kind of work - they'll be forced to bust out if they don't like it when they get left control. [[Take it up for the first time.]] [[To the top: quick.]] Which will happen very soon, considering the willing spirit of this godforsaken government. But because this is an important matter, but not good enough, far from then on, I just want to make it happen because we just made it happen that it's going to be taken off schedule. [[The president calls.]] Isn't that right? We'll take it out of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u155	Madam President. I have to join my partners. It's kind of awkward to stand before someone to sit in and wait for a minister to come into the house and enter a Senate case. I agree with what you're saying. The last speaker. I think it would be wise to take the matter off. Then we can continue with the program instead of waiting here for two hours or as was being planned, that some other minister should come and speak for the matter. When did it become clear that the minister could not come and recommend the matter? We voted for a variant today at 4:00 a.m. If there's not been a past, it would be nice to know. Or if this was going to happen right before dinner break. Then the president would take the case off schedule if a minister is not able to recommend it. It is very unusual to be searched for a measure of variation when the secretary is not in town, apparently, in order to be able to recommend it, or to have something to do with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a masquerade.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u156	A respectable president. In 1789, when the council met in Paris, Loðvík xv came and everything was falling apart, and they thought it was becoming liquid, the king fell asleep under discussion. It was so disrespectful that it broke out in an attack on Bastille, a revolution, and the king soon ceased to be king. Loðvík, however, came to the hall; he fell asleep, but he showed up. I think, so I use my favorite phrase, it's heavier than tears at the most. Government, commander. Apparently, ministers forgot where they came from. They're just ordinary people, not powermen, who can be our source. This is where they take their power, that they may remember it. Will humans simply fail to show natural courtesy and formality in human relations if you sit in the government of Independence Class, Action, and the Future? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why is it the highest? Mr. President didn't answer the questions directly addressed to her? When does a minister come to a house? What minister comes to the house? When are you going to end the meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u157	A respectable president. It is natural for such handback work in this government and for this government sector that it will be remembered for a long time. A meeting could hardly be started today because of the circumstances. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon had screwed up a meeting on a professional committee. Then we're sitting there, waiting for ministers to ask for variations in matters and then not be there to make a recommendation for them. Is it not right to end this meeting, and you just start thinking about what you're doing? I can see why. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson has already asked for the word, and he is the chairman of the members of the Parliament, for the rest of the House members of the Continental Assembly are not discussing the matter. He will likely tell us that we are wasting our time in nonsense, for he has often done so under similar circumstances. [[Up front.]] And kindly point out that we should behave in some way differently. But I think he should now make the most of a meeting in his backland because in spite of it. The prime minister today said that the smaller portion of his words had no control, so here he is, in the process of working, is to be associated with him with respect. [[The president calls.]] It takes a second. Ármannsson He also has an Aarhusman to do, and his boss, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u158	Madam President. I believe it is proper to inform that this is the way it should be done to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs is abroad. In his absence, he's at the highest. He's a marine dignitary and agricultural minister of his work. Her schedule today is so that she will not be able to go to a house for about 30 minutes. She had informed the members of the council earlier today. [[For example: Well?]] [[Foreground on: When?]] [[Up front.]] I don't know exactly what time it was, but it was earlier today at least. But the minister will come to the house about 8:30, i.e. Any time soon. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u159	V.E.G. President. I think it would be fine if you were. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Katrín of Jakobsdóttur, possibly informed new ones here at the council that it may have happened once or twice, or perhaps only at some point, that the council program will change depending on when the manager of the House will come to speak. There are many subjects on the program, and there is nothing to be done to continue a meeting. If there is a feeling that there is a negligible change in the program of meeting meetings, ordering the program, is a basis for the use of Bastilla Revolution, then there has been a misapprehension. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u160	Madam President. Before I have a story on this important matter, which in general is a very good development for the labour market and the staff, both abroad and abroad, I especially want to apologize for not being here earlier. I already told you when I could be here at the council. It has been announced that we are going to have a meeting until midnight. Of course, I was ready to be here tonight and had taken steps from it, but I find it boring to think that there was a misunderstanding and take it completely upon me. This is totally my responsibility, and I apologize to the council for this. I just couldn't make it before. But it's best to start the history in this important and urgent case, where I recommend a bill to correct a change in the rights and duties of foreign companies which will temporarily send employees to Iceland and the remuneration of their employees. In view of the length of the terms of the law, sometimes in general, they have been called a law on emissaries, and I will use it as a shortcut to my case. Along with the changes made by this bill, the requirements of the aforementioned labour output legislation are proposed in the bill to change the various other laws of the domestic labour market, especially in order to maintain harmonisation when monitoring the labour market. The bill was employed in cooperation with the European Union of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRBs, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Union of Civil Affairs, the Organization for Employment, the Office of Work. The main purpose of the bill is the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the implementation of the older Directive on working out staff in conjunction with services and other services. The objective of the bill is to provide the European Commission with a better perspective on the state of a domestic labour market in terms of foreign services, including national staff property as well as the number and position of foreign workers are employed in such companies. It's important to keep this in mind. This is a critical and dramatic step of rights for certain groups. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the monitoring of the Icelandic labour market so that the transmission of foreign workers to this country can be prevented in order to provide the services and activities of the workers in this country will lead to social subheadings. The bill anticipates more information related to foreign service employers, including employees and private workers, but under current laws, such as the economic activities of the partner in a domestic state than these activities, requires that services be allowed to cross-borderd on the basis of the European Economic Area Convention. In this context, the bill also anticipates an increased cooperation between the labour oce and the local administrations of the partner service provider, including when it comes to verifying whether a foreign service provider is truly through economic activity in the home. The labour market surveillance organisations are expected to share information between them if they detect information that may be necessary for monitoring the legislation on the work of a domestic labour market in order to prevent violations of the legal and collective agreements, while the information is necessary in order to monitor the relevant authority. It is suggested that the labour oce centre be allowed to place administrative fines in an enterprise, including employees who do not provide the Agency information and/or following cases of access to data as well as in cases where the Agency has been granted incorrect or insufficient information, regardless of whether intent or indiscretion has been identified. Is this suggested to ensure that companies and employees can ensure as much as possible that their information responsibilities so that the labour oce can supervise the activities of the Agency under law? A respectable president. The labour market in this country is well organized by the strong labour organisations of employees and employers who negotiate in collective labour agreements for pay and other employment remunerations in a domestic labour market as well as other aspects of the interests of employees. In 1980 a law was passed here on the remuneration of remuneration and the mandatory insurance of pensions, which include the agreement that salary and other remunerations negotiated by the labour market organisation should be the minimum remuneration in the Icelandic labour market. At the same time, the above laws state that the contracts of individual employees and professional drivers for less value than the general agreements decide to be invalid. The law was put in order to ensure that local labour market earners will have no less value than those negotiated in collective agreements. This is important to bear in mind. Thus, all enterprises working on national, national, national, and national countries are forbidden to offer non-profit agreements to their employees in collective agreements, regardless of whether the partner enterprises are members of the collective agreements or not. Among other things, in the 2004 labour market agreement, it is a common obligation and a task to protect the workforce in the Icelandic labour market, especially to set prices and other contracts. It is also obligatory that all companies should respect the laws and collective agreements that are relevant to these countries regardless of the nationalities of the relevant enterprise or its employees. This statement emphasizes the importance of the workforce as applicable here. The same applies to the duties of the labour market organisation in order to follow up on the workforce. In view of the above, the bill contains the so-called chain responsibility of user companies in construction or construction projects, but the responsibility is expected to include the minimum remuneration of employees who work here on the basis of company services based on the company's service contract and business users. At the same time, the responsibility is expected to cover the minimum pay of employees from other enterprises who have made service contracts based on the aforementioned service contract without a direct agreement between the concerned enterprises and the company's users. Is that suggested in line with Article 12. The directive for which the bill is intended to introduce, which requires such responsibility in certain professions. In this way, the bill is intended to promote the equal competitiveness of an enterprise in construction operations or construction projects in an Icelandic labour market by preventing foreign companies who respect laws and valid agreements from violating competitive agreements against other laws and regulations. Although this bill assumes that at first the responsibility of a user enterprise should be handled only with the user enterprise in construction operations or human activities, it is assumed that the situation in the labour market will be closely monitored so that it is possible to intervene by suggesting a change in the law will be the situation in such a way that it is important to believe that a user company with a job within other jobs will be responsible on the basis of a law on the provision of employees. Under the circumstances of a labour market requiring such a adjustment, it is assumed that a bill for change in the earlier laws will be submitted to the General Parliament to agree with the labour market organisation. It is suggested in the bill that the construction laws, the method of loyalty, and the safety of the workplace require the so - called contracting responsibility for the construction of buildings or for the construction of workers. This means that at work where more than one professional person is working at the same time as a construction project or construction project, it would be involved in the planning and harmonization of measures that ensure that the design, preparation and implementation of a project will be the utmost security, good management and method of loyalty. It is suggested that work is in the front order for a particular period of time, and the job should also be done to inform the government's labour control of the workplace before starting the job itself. A respectable president. As I mentioned at the outset, the main purpose of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the implementation of the older Directive on the work of staff in connection with services and other activities. The nature of the matter, therefore, is in accordance with most of the bill's regulations. In order to remain consistent, however, the bill allows for changes in the law of various employment laws, such as the workforce laws, the workforce laws, the workforce laws, and the workforce laws, and the security laws at work. These changes include the provision of information and cooperation by governments, which monitor the labour market as well as the legal requirements for causing practice of enterprises which do not require legal requirements in order to make monitoring more efficient than at present. Then the bill assumes that temporary employment permit must be granted on behalf of persons who have been authorized in this country for potential victims of human halls or for victims of human halls. In this case, the situation of these individuals may be improved and the possibility that they will be fully examined. In addition, the bill allows a new set of laws to be added to free employment and live-in payers within the European Economic Area, where it is stated that by the legislation the European Parliament's Directive and the Council will be made payable for their ability to use the rights they have in connection with the free movement of the employee. It is not expected that the laws of the law will be changed otherwise, since the contents of the aforementioned directive are already stated in Icelandic correctly with the requirements of local law. It is assumed that only a specific provision will be stated in the law that the above directive has been implemented in this country. A respectable president. I've been tracking the main changes this bill can expect from a number of laws that apply to a domestic labour market. In my opinion, it is very important that the bill be accepted as the first of all here at the council, especially in view of the fact that there have never been more foreign citizens working in a local labour market than at the beginning of this year about 10.3% of its members at the national labour market. According to labour agency data, about 20,000 foreign workers were participants in the local labour market at the end of 2016. Compared with this, in 2008 some 18,500 foreign citizens were active in this country, but in 2007 there were over 16,000 and in 2006 over 12,000. Thus, the number of foreign workers in the local labour market is increasing each year. There is no question about it. In 2016, a total of 54 foreign companies were registered at the Agency, which had sent over 1,000 temporary workers to the country to serve here, with a number of employees serving as employees, from abroad, over 1,500 additional workers at the same time. At that time, there were more than 300 employees of foreign companies in a domestic labour market in January 2017, which compared a number of over 170 years before or at the end of January 2016. It may then be estimated that foreign enterprises, which send their workers to the country to provide services and foreign workers in Icelandic labour markets, will likely increase here in the coming years. This is something we should expect. In this regard, some 40 foreign companies who had activity here in February 2017 fell under the standards of an agent's emissary, but when compared, in February 2016, they were nine years earlier or in February 2016. At that time, 26 workers in this country were employed at the end of February, 2017, both domestic and foreign, under the registration of the employment agency. But the year before, or in February 2016, there were twice as few, or 13. In my opinion, we need to respond to this trend in order to ensure that the foreign companies who send workers to the country to provide services, including employees' rents, follow the rules of a local labour market. In this regard, it is especially important to me that the employees in question receive the pay and other job documents that they have under the laws and collective contracts that apply here. I want to see that if the bill remains unaltered by the law, the cost to which it falls at the clinic, especially at the labour oce, is expected to be extended by increasing monitoring of foreign service employers within the resources of the relevant institutions and thus not allowing it to influence the state funds. Finally, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u161	Madam President. Thank you very much. Marine and agricultural ministers that recommend this case in the absence of the highest levels. Minister of Social Affairs. I hope it's the highest. A minister can answer what I would like to ask, in view of the fact that the bill is about, like the highest level. Minister went over, rights and duties of foreign companies who temporarily send employees to Iceland and their staff's salary, i.e. This bill is primarily about foreigners, foreign workers from foreign companies. This may be due to the fact that the EEA is being implemented. But the question that must arise is, Why is that as far as we can go? Why is there no talk of the entire domestic labour market, regardless of nationality? Is the bill designed because we feel that this can just not happen here, that we somehow have the good position that we don't think any of these things can exist in this country, but this applies exclusively to foreign workers in foreign companies? I'm wondering if it's the highest. Governments view this as some kind of milestone on the way, whether it feels natural that such responsibility should be introduced to the entire labour market regardless of nationality, or whether it is the Ministry's assessment that this is not a problem that needs to be dealt with in a domestic labour market, needs to deal with them in some other way. That's what I want to get the highest. Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u162	Madam President. I would like to emphasize that this is primarily an introduction. Very important introduction issue. It is clear that these are laws associated with outside employees. The law will have great significance for the entire labour market as a whole, the implementation of this directive, and will prevent - that's what we're trying to do - social subsidies. Of course, we know the circumstances in which work is part of the market. There are circumstances. A senator was talking about who could come up here in a job market. Of course, it's being watched very carefully. It's not excluded that men - and I'm wondering for myself when I was studying and reading the bill because it's not even my Ministry, I'm here, the highest rank. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, why make up the chain responsibility, only the construction and construction projects. Nevertheless, we will continue to examine further factors. As a result, I feel that the Department of Social Affairs is very alert to what is going on at the labour market. Everyone is conscious of his intention to avoid social subsidiary of any kind. But it is very important that this particular case be made because we have to implement what the European Parliament has agreed on and that we are following through on the basis of the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u163	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer I hear is honest. In other words, this is an introduction and therefore not a political initiative in the extent that has been indicated. I'd like to ask the highest. As soon as it is important to introduce what we have made a commitment to introduce - and this is to know that the positive thing is not to be misunderstood, but here is a proposal from a branch of the left-hand greens to set up a staff that has the goal of creating a bill that introduced the whole labour market, not just a set of foreign labour regulations, but a clear requirement to a whole domestic labour market. It's the highest. A minister does not agree that it is only right to agree with that proposal so that we are going over the entire workforce in a complete way? Social subs, as we know, we may know them primarily from the discussions of foreign workers. But we need to look to the future and more time in these matters. We cannot limit them to my nationalities. [[The president calls.]] We need to view the workforce as a whole. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not only a song when the council brings this up, which is good and positive, that the council removes the matter that lies in here and actually goes beyond this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u164	A respectable president. I don't think that anyone in himself could be physically against what he has to say. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter said in a pit earlier. It says now that we are discussing this introduction. I'm sorry, there's been way too much trouble with the important introductions through the EEA Convention. But it's just that, under law, you're supposed to live by collective agreements. All you can do is Vagaur do it, put it into agreements, fulfill what it says. It's even ... topreservetheexploitedels. They need extra protection. We realize that. Thus, the whole issue is very positive. I want to point 'em, too. A senator says that we have other surveillance agencies, we have tax, workaholics, and others who must try to protect ourselves from social subsidies, which are totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u165	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for a very clear and detailed background on an extremely complex subject that is in many pages with much explanation. Clearly, social subsidies have become an urgent problem in the Icelandic labour market. The lawgiver hasn't responded enough so far. Neither is the labour market. Therefore, several rural communities, I name Reykjavík and Akureyri, and firms, I specifically mention Landing, have set their own chain responsibility to ensure that all who work for the person through contracts or contracts receive the same rights as due to the law and collective agreements. This is not just construction and engineering, as is meant here, but also by human beings. for the purchase of services and goods, as in the rules of field activation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this type of legislation could be limited to those rural communities and companies who have already taken much more advanced and more strict rules than this issue and apply to foreign citizens, foreign companies and the EEA. Can this destroy the work done by your communities and your companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u166	Madam President. So I'll answer the last question why. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir: No, not at all. It should certainly not be avoided, so that it is clear what the Lawgiver's will is in this regard. But I'd also like to point out that the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, not the acting minister of this office, but the Supreme Minister. Social Þorsteinn Minister Þorstein Víglundsson has provided a bill for equal management of workers in the labour market. We take these matters very seriously. I understand from people in this side room who are experts from the Department of Social Affairs that we are not necessarily on time with the implementation of this directive. Should we consider the procedure of the last government and even the previous one? Then it took a little longer. I think it matters that we're ahead of the time plan for this because it's an unannounced situation as it is today. It may well be that we've all wanted to see a larger step, but I think it's right to tell about the willingness of a social minister and what I say here in the Senate, that we're going to make sure that certain things in the labour market that have come up from time to time and a black spot in the labour market don't do it here under Icelandic law and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u167	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. The latest labour market subs are buses that go around here on foreign numbers, come with Norwegian, are moved here to the country, and spend longer or shorter hours here, not only as permissible, driving those passengers who come and take them back from the country, but they are located here, and given longer trips, and subsidies for up to 50%, as the Association of Tourism and ASI and others have pointed out. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does it believe that the regulations of this bill are involved? Has this been considered? Has a minister studied these matters? If not, what other means do the Minister have in order to stem this disastrous trend? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u168	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The news about the bus drivers this morning sucked. I'd like to state that there is a very wide - scale consultation among the public institutions in this regard. There are customs, employment agencies, walking agencies, work department, tax, etc., where people are taking a specific look at this matter, I understand. It is proper to note that these foreign people do not agree to the posts law unless it is a business of user in this country that buys from that service. Work is started by the European Union, where and by what means can this operation be carried out under the directive we address on the posts of the workers. But I'm stressing that the Icelandic government is very aware of this. I'd like to say, if you can use that expression, to the top. A social minister has his finger on his pulse when it comes to this. They will be very carefully monitored, and organizations will be coordinated to prevent such confusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u169	A respectable president. It always needs to be asked when it comes to problems: Is that the solution? Now it's a bill for a legal adjustment of six different layers. Although I read its laws backwards, I wouldn't understand anything so much better as to what the matter is in the context of the law as being such, since words are being gleaned here and there. It's similar to the law we were making at the beginning of the council; because we didn't get the connection, we missed the errors. It speaks of foreign employees, companies, having to show contracts, salary bills, and job reports. I find this interesting with regard to the workforce bill. Is the workforce being equal to people who come here under these conditions? How long before this applies to everyone who works here? Why aren't they treating all working people the same way in Iceland? Why don't everyone get the pay and the work reports to the labour oce? The answer to that question seems rather obvious to me. Then you have to ask yourself, " Why are these and not the others? ' Also, I wanted to make comments to the highest words. The minister that this did not affect the government funds, and hence, there was no expense assessment in the bill. Clearly, much work must be done in these institutions to enforce these laws. It must be accompanied by increased stress from employees who are affecting the financial programs we are working on. [[The president calls.]] It's gotta be expensive, dot. Whether or not it fits within a frame.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u170	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for these comments, comments, and speculations that are very interesting and relevant in this context. I'd like to draw out that the solution to this bill is consistent change. These are changes to conform to the day-to-day rules of the various institutions, the workforce, the workforce, and others so that these will be comparable to those at the same time, not too complicated. The fundamental princeship and the idea of the bill is to ensure the rights of foreign workers to the same degree as those of Iceland. That's the basic thought of this, which I think is very important to us to legalize as soon as possible. Hv. A senator asks if foreigners, when agencies arrive, need to prove more information? No. They don't have to do that. But the surveillance agencies, as I understand the bill, can go into the workplace and demand that the companies show the documents involved. I don't want the foreigners to have to. It's just to make sure their rights, their foreign workers are the same as Icelanders, and they have agreed on their bargains. Regarding the box such as: Unfortunately, this is all different customs in this regard. But often it has been enough that when the bills are set and you see that they can fit within the boundaries of the laws, within the financial frames intended for institutions, if set in place. Especially when we're in a hurry. But whether this is the right method of action should not be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u171	A respectable president. No, it's not the right thing to do. According to the law, cost evaluations are to be carried out by the Board of Directors. It's as simple as that. Yeah, it's the companies that provide the employment contracts, job reports and the retails, but these are staff data. It's the protection I'm interested in. This is a change in how unions can call for employment contracts, and work reports and salary bills are added. Is this something we can expect to lay on the Icelanders as well? If not, then why foreign employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u172	Madam President. No, it's just a matter of principle. We are not going to some mountain back by detracting personal protection from outside employees. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill has been worked in broad consultations with the labour market partners, rural areas, and many others involved. I think it was important to keep in mind. But what happens now is that we are being discussed on the Senate Committee, the welfare committee. Then you just cross even. the tip of the question. A senator has rightly promoted here in answer. I'm stressing now, because this is the last answer for all directions, it is important that not only members of the council take part in a discussion of such important matters and make their views manifest but also that the case will be done well in cooperation with the members of the council committees, while at the same time I'm stressing that this is a judicial hearing for a particular group of disfellowshipped employees, which I hope the council will promote and fulfill. [[For example, do we have time?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u173	Madam President. This is an important or important matter. It's harmful to have it so late in the winter of the Senate. Nevertheless, it is good for this work to be in here, no matter how angry men are about to settle the matter. How desirable it would be to take immediate action in that regard! But not to be thrown to the hands either. The bill, in spite of all the complexity, is one of 60 articles, and it enters the labour laws in many places. There is no reason to expect that people will quickly enter into it and prove that they will accomplish their purpose in every way, which we will expect everyone to want it to. First only about the problem. It doesn't have to be debated. In words at least everyone agrees that we don't want to see this social subheading, don't want to be badly treated by a foreign worker who comes from a difficult situation and has to be offered whatever, who knows other things from home. There are so many moral and humanable issues that half of it is enough. It's undefeated in so many ways. This is most often linked to black activity. Usually, this is really a tax charge, just in terms of social subsidies in remuneration, thus paying off the normal amount in the remuneration process. Mensals and all sorts of mess are often involved. So let us not forget the cleaning side, the end of not only the salary but also the equipment, safety in the workplace, and so on. This is disturbing to those people who want to get everything straight, who pay well and live well for it, and who live with a less competitive position toward such countries. This is particularly serious in the case of the Northern countries. The problem is, we're dealing with these problems with some European directives where the work right has been and is much weaker than it was traditionally seen in the North countries. It has been attended by the Norwegian labour market model over the last few decades, including by the European Court and in part by the European labour legislation, by the European labour market competitiveness. Of course, we should be defending here a much more stringent and stronger work law. They should be picking on us from the outside. It is only a small part of the process that has ended when we have to implement a European directive to restore such items to the Icelandic labour market. This should be the other way around, we'd have to defend and justify our actions against the strictness of our legislation. For the collective labour agreements, the social agreements on which the Norwegian labour market model is based, nodative agreements, if you may, Madam President, are allowed to end it, it is important to remember that their position in the Norwegian labour market model is naturally very special. In effect, they form a minimum wage. That's it. Instead of attaching a minimum wage to a bill and money contract, the collective agreements are given legal value in this respect, to avoid paying any lower than the agreement between the labour market partners. This is, of course, a unique characteristic of the Norwegian labour market and is still with people here. In some other places, this approach is simple: It is only legal that it cannot be paid to anyone less than 10 euros or $8 or what it is in the hour for a day's work. Then it forms the base of what is in relation to it. But here's the bargain deal. That's why it's so important, and in all respects, that you can't get away with being undermined. Only better to this bill, to the extent that you have had time to dive into it. Quickly, the approach is good in many ways. Me, for example. It seems accurate to try to control the whole situation by allowing it to take over an independent working party and by deeming no individual functioning unless he is working for himself alone. As soon as he's got men working, he's become a company. By taking care of the workforce and the staff property, these are quite well covered by the sector that is normally involved in this discussion. And yet? On the basis of the EEA Convention, people can come here, on the basis of free travel, and hire themselves for work here, of all the European Economic Areas. Of course, Icelandic lawyers can make it look like people they hire come here and look for work. We know that there have been times when a pot has been broken, although it has nothing to do with employees, it's not posted staff, and it's not some private job. We know the examples of people who have been underpayed, lived in containers, and most of the stigma paid by them on rents. This has been true in some places. It's completely annoying. I think we need to go over it well in this matter: Is it still tight enough? Then I come to the other limitation that's gonna sting my eyes. The chain responsibility is here based only on construction projects and activities. Why? What evidence is there? Is it not reasonable to believe that in the fast - growing tourism industry, a pot is also broken? Could this not take place in many services, just as in practical projects? Yes, I'm afraid so. [[Top of the list: collapse.]] That's why they're doing it or what it's called. I think we need to go over it well. Isn't it a little ambitious just to go in there? I think it's a little old-fashioned. Of course, we know this and are burned by experience in an act of engineering, such as it was of Merians, all the great things that were going on there. But we also need to examine the situation as they are at the job market today. Where are the foreign workers pouring in these months and losing? It's inside the tourism service. It's a service job, not necessarily a mechanic. There's a lot of things to look at. The financial side of this is then relieved to say that this does not require additional expenses. In English this means that the Labour Office should implement this new legislature without a particularly single cent on it. We were discussing a bill a few nights ago about employment, increased efficiency measures, and job operations for jobseekers and disabled persons. What did the expense report say? This is not influenced by the fact that a working agency is taking on this, a substantial sum of money. It will begin to be included if one bill after another brings up additional projects to the Agency that the employment agency will accept. Of course, it is not credible that the mind will follow, if this is to become such a great document for the struggle against black work and social subheading. I think it's the monologue to invest handsomely in advanced activities in this area. It is to be taken to the labour company, to the head of the local taxation, and I even thought justified that the public will contribute to some of the workforces of the labour market's partners so that they could be directed in the monitoring and early visits, as in the case of the campaign, all the work and cooperation between the head of the company and the labour market's organisations activities in 2010- Pharisees2012 when a large number of companies were visited under that effort and other complex matters were cut into a song that was unread. It produced tremendous results, profit from the government, definitely. The labour market members, of course, took their own expenses; they included the emissaries who visited the companies. Well done. Maybe they're ready for it. I'm sure the employment community has something to do with it. I'm pretty sure they could handle it. I don't know about ASI, but I guess they're not exactly on the flow panel, either. Anyway. The government might well justify taking e.g. the total cost of such uniform action. There could also be a part of it. Then you can hit a lot of flights at once, make sure that you pay on a collective contract, that the equipment is working properly, that the work programme may therefore be part of the group, that the tax is all right, make sure that your income takes care of the activities, etc. There's a hell of a lot of work to do if you take care of things properly. A respectable president. This is a big deal on the road that is probably to welcome and work. I don't have the full conviction that there's enough calm here for every trip, that there's enough ambition on the road. It's given me quite a bit of a thought, why it's so limited in this regard. This is also the focus of dealing with foreign workers entering the Icelandic labour market. That's the way it is, for example. complete light on page 5 of this magazine. 27 points to Article 12. The directive says it's on the basis of Article 12. which is permitted to state the chain responsible according to the European Directive. We're not picking up the bike, we're allowed to hold chain responsibility in certain sectors. In view of the circumstances, the countries that provide much space to decide, what these articles are. So, with the permission of the President: ▪... and is in the bill on this basis the responsibility of user companies in construction operations or construction projects, dr. 13th par. The bill. It is thus assumed that a user enterprise can be responsible for the undergraded minimum price of employees of its foreign enterprise...•The foreign company. I was looking for this because I wanted to be clear about it. Is this only true when foreign people act? Is that how it is? How should this expression be read? I haven't quite gotten to the bottom of it, I haven't had time to go to the bottom of it, or a position to ask anyone, then here and now. Should we understand this in our report so that the chain of responsibility does not work if it is a national contractor or if the contractor himself, the mother company, is inland? [[Up front.]] This does not mean chain responsibility? We need to get this straight. And I think it's too limited. If so, then as far as it depends on you. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir mentioned a very valid question: If we make it so limited, does it affect people who want to make more ambitious and broader rules? For example. □ What responsibility do members of the Governing Body have, and why? V.E.G. Secretary says no. I hope it is. Of course, in the first round, it seems that the contractor must be allowed to set stricter rules, for he is the one buying the project, the one paying. He must then be allowed to make his own rules. But wait now, is that certain in the future? What happens if a foreign member of a bicycle gets involved and says: "It's a competition! You've got more strict rules here than the country's built up for its rights, and that's not how it works. Could it not be that way? Would it not be possible for such a thing to fall? I guess not. I think there's also something we need to do very carefully and to be absolutely certain that this will not prevent others from having their rules of chain responsibility or other such things more extensive, even if there is no further progress in the first-pass legislation. I noticed what was at the height of it. Regarding this, a minister said that there would be a careful monitoring of the need to move a new bill that would likely expand the field of the regulations. It rings specific bells, especially since the country's growing branch has become the fastest available event in the country, and it is the most widely used international workers, where we see examples of unusual competition and social subheadings, examples of bus companies mentioned here, examples of flight attendants calling a strike on the particular company in the autumn, if I heard the correct news tonight. It's all in service, inside the traveller's house. Sadly, there you have information that black activity is increasing and that the situation in many countries is becoming quite serious. In the past, people felt that there was no need to argue that it was the industrial and construction sector where black activity was the most common and the most remote. What, though, did this study at its time and place - to - place visits show in 2010-2012? This showed that the building sector and the industrial sector had developed strong rivals in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u174	Madam President. The main thing I wanted to do was come up here to celebrate the fact that this bill had been set up and thanked the U.S.A. I think it's a very important matter. It may not surprise many, but I'd like to include just a few matters of opinion that have to do with the EEA case. After all, it's just like the highest. In his historical history, a minister explained that this is primarily an introduction. First, though, I would like to point out that even though there is only the introduction, as it has been said, the matter is extremely important. I would feel that it showed a certain political authority to try to introduce the rules presented here as quickly and safely as possible. It has usually been in this country that the induction has been rather delayed than the other. So I think it is evidence of political interest in the history of a minister that here should try to fulfill these responsibilities as soon as possible. As to the issues of the case and the human staff in general, their activities have caused several problems in both the EFTA and the Northern countries involved in the EU. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon concluded that in this case it is now serious that the North countries with their collective agreements were to this extent bound by European directives and even by the European Court itself. To answer, in this case, we are so lucky to have cousins in the EU who have been able to fight for a reexamination of employees' rules. That work even returned. of the directive under way. Of course, we Icelanders do not have the opportunity to participate in that legislative work. In this case, we are very lucky to have a hawk in the corner where the northern nations are returning to this directive. Only through the induction. This is a policy of conformity. Therefore, when people are about to look at some specialist provision, we have to face the fact that we are part of the European Economic Area. In that area, there are a number of similar rules in the workplace. Now we have, as it were, many good rules for that cooperation. We've been talking about, for example, at the council. Rules relating to equality and equal position in the labour market, which is good. On the other hand, we must be careful to build around the directive some special amenac regulations that are not kept before judgment. A respectable president. I think this case is very important. I believe it was an amazing decision to allow it to be on the program. I think this is an important and positive step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u175	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm here mainly to consult it as a specialist in the field of European initiatives in the EEA. As mentioned before the council, there is a proposal for a resolution on the chain of responsibilities prescribed a few weeks ago. There are reviews on the subject, which is closely linked to this bill. According to its review, since 2011 the Society put high importance on chain commitments. In this relationship, Norway has been the most successful. It has the highest experience with the construction of chain responsibilities. 13th. The bill we discuss here is, as mentioned earlier, saying that the chain of responsibilities will only cover the activities of a particular field of employment during the period of 12. The directive, being introduced, does not have such boundaries. In accordance with the directive, Member States have pretty free hands with this induction, apparently. That's why I'd like to hear it. A senator's example compares with that of Norway. Is it possible to do things a little farther than they are, include more employment or what it is? Does it seem that there is any barrier if we assume that Norway has comparable solutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u176	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Now, in this respect, Norway has been in some sort of trouble with EFTA institutions, both the EFTA and EFTA facilities, when it comes to employees' policies, I don't know enough of the legislation as a matter. A candidate refers to the ability to evaluate its nature. I believe it is absolutely conclusive that the committee, if she has the case to treat, can compare Article 13. The bill and 12. The directive to determine if there is more room. The main part of my talk was to point out that it is to be the focus of clearance, not that it is to create special rules without considering whether it is compatible with the European rules, since it will be framed at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u177	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that the committee should carefully examine the bill, comparing it with the directive to the introduction, I even wondered whether the group of working men was. Magnúsdóttir It is possible, not as a direct change of subject to the bill, but as even a preliminary principle to consider in a larger context, as the next step may be. It does not necessarily mean that we are talking about special solutions, but it could be something for which we are example, not just in the EEA but even among the Norwegians who are in our position. So I agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u178	Madam President. It's good that this case has come in here, though I'm certainly a little surprised that it hasn't been the taking the initiative. Minister of Social Affairs, rather, is this mainly the introduction to EEA regulations, as good as they can be in many ways, which have to deal with labour market rights. We know the freedom of employees in the EEA and that the country in which they work is valid. In this case, labor unions have been wrestling for a long time. This bill that comes in here doesn't feel like I'm going far enough. It has been referred to as our decision to be made left green, which I am a member of the 1st platoon, where we recommend the establishment of a working group and the work group taking into account the financial responsibility of the panels of public pay subsidies, labour contracts and pay-related pay, insurance and other contracts paid for the remuneration and for that reason, and the legal adjustment to all the sector. It's supposed to cover all the jobs. It is suggested that the Minister submit the bill to the 147th legislature Council, i.e. It'll be ready in the fall. I believe our council case, this synopsis proposal, is equally important now that this case from the highest level. Social Affairs Minister is submitted, which is only the implementation of the EEA directive and looks exactly the same. There's nothing added, as I understand it. Sure, like the highest. A minister mentioned earlier, there have been discussions in the labour market on these matters. There have been rural communities and economic organizations, as well as ASI. It has come to the point that this issue that the government does not take on far enough. Criticism has come from ASI that it was their understanding in this cohesion to establish a chain responsibility, that it could be possible, without a legal change, to take more workers into the existing legislation of the EEA Directive. As I understand that, if more people are to be subject to chain responsibility, they will need a change of law or new legislation. I don't think it's good enough because it's so urgent that the arrangements reach the entire labour market. This has been a black spot in the Icelandic labour market, and particularly since employees'hard work became part of an Icelandic labour market, these problems have increased greatly, with social subsidies and with all kinds of consequences. The labor movement has been trying to control this for a very long time. The reviews that have led us to the left green to set up a chain responsibility group all agree on the need for it to cover the entire labour market, unless there is a negative report from the Association of Professionals. There seems to be some difficulty in reaching the entire labour market. We know that this problem is not just in the construction sector and in the employees'hard work. Sadly, a large number of foreign workers do not work for Icelandic agreements, even though their employers are thus violating these people's laws. We must as an Icelandic state of justice to ensure the rights of these people, and setting clear laws on chain responsibility would completely change their work environment. The reason greens have presented earlier terms is this violation of the work market, that is to violate tax laws, and that are also the social subsidiary that is directed particularly toward foreigners and young people, people who may find it difficult to carry a hand in front of their heads. The chain - responsible contractors are seeking to prevent subsidies in the labour market, violation of collective agreements and labour laws, social subsidies, and various types of tax frauds, and even embargos, all of which are the consequences of the irresponsibility that have marked part of the Icelandic labour market during the past few years. Of course, the Black Works involved in these violations against the staff that are subject to their failure to receive pay and to the community all that does not get its dues and at the same time undermine the competitiveness of the normal companies and respect the rules of collective agreements. A military law that trusts the weak links in the chain of responsibility is the most powerful weapon against social substitution and social social social security, as well. That's why I think it's so important that we get together to walk this thing all the way. This has been mentioned as the latest news, that there are many cases of foreign buses, from Lithuania that remind me of staff even here known as tourists, and those with whom there are paid too little money in terms of Icelandic bargains. Naturally, other workers in a labour market working by Icelandic law and collective agreements are not competitive with the foreign people who come in here in this way. It is better to intervene immediately before this becomes a chain-acting problem and a judgment response to equality and competition in the labour market. Of course, traveling service has grown tremendously, and this too is a problem. There are such practices as cleaning. I quote Halldór Grönvold in ASI upon discussing these matters and says that the chain of responsibilities is with people in many parts of Europe. In Norway it reaches construction, construction, and cleaning. We know here in Iceland has become a large percentage of people of foreign origin who even come here for a while and work on cleaning. We need to ensure that these people have a normal working environment and the pay given by the Icelandic collective agreements. It was noted in the review of the local tax investigator's office in our issue of left greens on the chain responsibility that 22 contractors are now under investigation by the office for suspicion that they have tried to escape legal tax payments by becoming responsible for paying taxes to subjugation. The combined amount of these issues is 2 billion, which shows the level of importance and what society may be losing a lot of money on a team of projects, except for the insurmountation of employees. As we have seen in these discussions, there are also some major purchases in this country that have already set chain responsibilities for their contracts, of course, exemplary. That's even. Country activation, Kingdom Hall, Reykjavík, and Akureyri City, who have acknowledged the importance and need of this. The case has been taken up in collective labour agreements. It's very important, because it's disturbing to have social subsidies and tax thefts involved in society. I believe this case needs good and material coverage on a welfare committee and that it needs to be called out to the employee movement and that the reasons for the employment community do not want this to cover the entire labour market. What are humans afraid of in this regard? Don't you all want companies to work on the same foundation and to be competitive, to have their own business clean and pay for that bargain deal, no discrimination, and not to let any pig subsidies be tolerated in their workers? Of course, big and quality companies are not expected to have the stamp that pays far below the minimum minimum and breaks their employees. Of course, they do not want a real company to add their name to it. This company that I mentioned before has shown initiative in recording this and no doubt will have more companies to do it because there is a health card for the company that it does not place its name to the tax-crosser, to-do workers, and, unfortunately, it has even been established here. Of course, Iceland has become part of the major international labour market, a labor stream between countries. When the Icelanders travel to other countries and work there, either temporarily or permanently, they rely on the legal and collective agreements to ensure that they have a minimum value in the country. It was noted in the news, as mentioned here, that the flight attendants of a particular airline are on a much lower salary than our stewardess society puts on. The flight crew for that particular airline is from Iceland, so, of course, it's mandatory that the flight attendants and flight crews have the same bullshit contracts that they have in Iceland. People everywhere need to be on guard. I think it's very important that this case be taken up completely and done well. Our language of the left green will be worked together, and men will walk all the way for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u179	A respectable president. I had many eyes on this bill, and I thank you for the talk. Senator. The bill speaks of the current percentage of foreign workers in this country being 10.3% of the labour market and never more. It has been said that there is positive evidence that the workforce is flowing and that some of the tension in the market is reduced. I'm worried about how much of this is about the economy, because we have certain tax revenues from a huge number of foreign employees. If they get out of the economy, if they start to squeeze, doesn't it block the whole economy down into nothing? Then we're turning away from the financial and financial agenda we're working on, and we've come to realize that it's extremely sensitive to the economics it's making. All of that is natural, but if we don't get the numbers on which the plan is based, we're in a bit of a mess. I'm wondering how this legislation affects this labour market, whether the enterprise can't see how to work here anymore and then just go. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we do not want them to be doing what they do, and we do not want taxes like that. [[The president calls.]] But it's missing, I think, an analysis whether this has any such effect or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u180	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. It turned out that there are 26 workers here, and, of course, there's a huge expansion here, especially in the capital area. In the rural region, the tsunami has not spread to land. Perhaps it would be a pleasure if she was to be equal to these inches, then perhaps there would be more balance here and not a risk of eco-efficiency, as we are afraid. We may not trust this financial program because it is based on certain expectations for continued economic growth that may vary according to what it depends on. Since 2011, these issues have been examined. I'm expecting her to have some information and analysis of the situation. I don't think we should be introduced that way at the labour market, or at least not at the labour market in the EEA, that we are such a country that we let ourselves be lightweighted by the implementation of collective agreements. We don't want that kind of party into the country. They need to be shown cards right away, that they're not desirable. You have to work by the law and by the rules of an Icelandic job market, and that's just the way it is. There's nothing more complicated than that. Job life must face the fact that we live here in legal agreements that have been signed by the labour market partners and that these are the sources of the unremarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u181	A respectable president. I appreciate the reminder, because I was going there with the inquiry. It has been observed here in the capital area, but it may be lower in the country. But these bus companies coming with Norwegian will probably start there. I wondered if this might have an effect on the expansion of the country because the ministry is likely to increase there, at least on the bus trips. You wonder, " If the service is largely given in a country but comes from Norwegian, what does the answer produce? ' I don't know how the companies set up places that come here with foreign employees or how they do it. That's what I think is a very interesting question and necessary for our communities. Do they get their answer from the earnings of the employees coming here? I can't see it quickly. We received this document at four o'clock, and it's sixty-six and some pages, and you're getting through all of this gradually. It describes, I think, the problem of putting in a bill like this at the last minute, especially this big, that there's always new information coming up because you've had less time to prepare for such a thing. This is something that I obviously think is a huge hole in the case if there is a need to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u182	Madam President. There's a lot of things going on here. Of course, this matter is late stated, and it is difficult to make a requirement for it to be settled during the few days that remain, this is a very important matter. Although it is the induction of a decree, there are six other legal columns. Of course, this needs to be done in a very good way. That's why I would have thought it would be wise to use the summer, set up a team, as we left greens in our proposal, and get our whole way around it. Then in the fall of that year, we could put together some serious issues that covered the entire labour market and examined all aspects of this matter. I think that it would be very, very difficult to do nothing rashly to improve the situation. For the buses that come with Norwegian and are here for a short time and go back, and they have employees at everything other than our collective contracts, it's certainly a big problem. This makes the Icelandic bus companies incompatible. Of course, you can see that people on Eastern Europe will build up in that sector so that they can take care of tourists in the country and the buses that come here legally and have nothing to do with their operations. They need to make sure that the law is applied in an Icelandic labour market so that others sit at the same level as they do. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u183	Madam President. I'd like to reiterate that I thank you very much. Minister for the review of this complex matter, incorporation. I just want to start by remembering how we Icelanders woke up with a bad dream here during the Melancholy Years, when the whole environment was suddenly completely changed. Instead of a new activation project, much home work, high prices, and worthiness in which everyone made money, there was a very different fact. There were foreign employees who not only took jobs from local or Icelanders but also prepared everything that could be prepared. Insurance, I don't talk about the pay, the right to illness and a break from work, it was all paradox, things and things that the labor movement had been fighting for even decades, and often had to sacrifice a considerable amount in order to achieve it. All of this was all set aside, so to speak, when they moved here into the whole flight plate of Chinese workers, from Portugal, and from Italy. In this case, there was no respect for equipment, physical rights, or anything else. We may not yet have the most disgusting form of this modern slavery, since, as has been enlightened in Sweden and Norway, I do not speak of in other European countries, entire groups of people are moved to do monotonous farming jobs or factories, and all of which are taken from them, even the fitr. Actually, it's not really a place for the people, it's not real anymore. It is so sad that this modern slavery is far more widely available on the international scale than was once the slavery. A slave today is of little value. When the slave war in the United States was fought, slaves were important, they were expensive. The owners treated them well, took care not to kill them with a job. It's different up here today. Unfortunately, there are many examples. We woke up on a bad dream in the 2007 Meriad Sunfare, and, fortunately, much water has flowed to the sea ever since. Not only were legislation accepted but it may have been primarily among the labour market partners. ASI and the Labour Association proposed in 2006, which later became confirmed in the law of No. 45/2007, about the rights and duties of foreign companies, I don't remember the highest. Minister called this group earlier. So we have songs from 2007, but they have certainly not kept up with evolution. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that we were just a few steps ahead of evolution, pointing out that we were not too late to implement this directive, as if there were some measure. Sadly, we are following the trend. This is best illustrated by the fact that the largest rural society in this country, such as Reykjavík and Akureyri, and the most powerful companies in the country, such as Landing and Marriage, has taken matters into their own hands, have not wanted to wait for the legislature, much less for some European economic directive. What these parties have put together in their contracts and decisions is far more extensive than what is discussed in this bill, as we have considered. I can mention that at the annual meeting of Consecration here at the dawns, the chain of commitments for contracts, remuneration agreements, and contracts for services take place. Here we are talking about chain responsibility only in the construction industry and construction projects, as this is true of some European directives. But what is chain responsibility? I think you just have to realize that it's not just that someone's running and making a guarantee, that's if they're pregnant. The commitment is, in effect, that the main contractor, who makes the contract for work, is responsible for the contracts he makes with his sub-products and his contractors are fully in agreement with the laws of the country and the collective agreements. It's not the monopoly, it's like that. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask correctly pointed out that the induction of this directive may be interpreted as a way that the rules that I mentioned and others have set and are more widely than the bill expected, will not be interpreted as competitive inhibition, and men will be allowed to withdraw to land with them. I want to get to the environment only because of the highest. Minister said we were ahead of evolution. Hv. paritaprevir Tynes Tynes mentioned earlier that we had to be careful, we had to be careful not to go further, not to take more steps than expected in the European Court. Then I'd like to remind you that the contract is still free. There's still a free cow contract in this country. The labour market members, in particular ASI and also the activities of the industry, have set up military lines against social subsidiaries in the Icelandic labour market and have contributed a great deal for both the discussion and the field in which such subsidies are engaged. I don't think it's all going to have to be brought in from European directives. We can do better than that. I remind you that in 2010, Norway was introduced by legislation, which includes the collective or social responsibility of contractors and subcontinents, so that if there is a requirement for correction, there is a requirement. In 2014, Sweden agreed to an employment market agreement on chain responsibilities. There's no law there. In fact, this agreement has the position of a collective agreement. True, only now is the construction industry that pays for it in order to deliver a stream of pay corrections. I mentioned earlier that it could be interpreted as a competitive obstacle if a man goes beyond this directive. I'd like to mention that Land induction has already made over 50 contracts with suppliers and partners with chain responsibilities. Again, I refer to what was presented at the company's annual meeting. Madam President. I'd like to go inside just for a second. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter asked about this earlier in the discussion because we are not an island in the sense that the same thing happens in the Icelandic labour market and in other parts of the world. We read today about Prima Air. Iceland's stewardship approved a work stop today for this partner, and it's scheduled for September 15th. The work stop was adopted with all the votes, each paid at the vote. There's nothing special about a strike-in in Iceland, is there? No, but in this case it's special because there's the stewardess society with the support of ASI and in cooperation with ASI working against social subsidies on this market because the stewardess who work in this company's aircraft, which has a working station in Iceland, are on the side of rent and have a much lower salary. That's under the minimum wage in Iceland. I don't talk about rights like sick rights or anything that a collective contract guarantees. This is exactly what is happening with the buses we discussed earlier today. It really needs to take action. I don't know if the bill we're talking about is very effective in that regard. Therefore, I strongly recommend the proposal of a platoon of left greens, as a boy. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is a 1st importer for, shall be agreed. She's well on her way to work on the Committee. It is necessary to respond in the way suggested, to appoint a team of workers who are assigned to write a chain responsibility bill, then in all areas of the labour market. If you find that it is not for some EU decision, I'm pretty sure that the labour market members will, in the same way as they did in Sweden, be willing to come together and negotiate, make a deal about it. I'm sorry that this bill has been presented as a chain responsibility bill. I have to say, to some extent, it's false expectations. We've talked about it here tonight, how limited this bill is, really. It just turns to foreign employees, who say they're all alone, employees from employees and employees from foreign companies in this country. Sadly, when it comes to buying an inexpensive service, as I have pointed out, people have put their binoculars to the blind. Thus, national travel agencies buy services from these foreign bus companies at 50% lower price than the market in Iceland. In the same way, the fact with Primara Air, as Iceland's stewardship Association points out in an announcement today, is that a company with a work station in Iceland that takes advantage of this situation and makes a deal with Latvian employee rent on a much lower salary. So we're not unique here. The whole workforce needs to be established. This bill is good in its own way, but it's not going far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u184	A respectable president. What a pleasure it is to have a place to say what to do! A senator, who always remembers our first encounter in correcting a font on a computer at any point. A member of the council a few years ago was able to provide from my fountain of wisdom on that matter. I hope to receive a similar reward in this regard, for I am very interested in part of her talk about this slavery, or really this economic slavery that we actually have a little on today. This is not only true of foreign employees who come here and prepare a salary, but it is also very relevant in a domestic labour market, where we have a certain low-pay policy in many areas. It is an enormous part of the Icelanders who are trapped in the cycle of working to survive and to get to work in more places than one place. True, we live in a very different world. This situation actually comes from him. More automation, bigger world, more flow of labor and ideas. There is a conflict between these very jobs that can be automation because there is possibly a low salary or other solution. I would be interested to expand this discussion only with regard to this bill and the circumstances it is to be adjusted. Is it really fixing this problem? Isn't this just the same problem that we need to deal with in a domestic labour market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u185	Madam President. Yes, I'm afraid we need to clean up in our own study, not just with foreign employees here. You're right. A senator says that the pay in this country is below the level of well - being. This may be especially true in the management sector and in cleaning and such activities, but it is also true of those who accept community pay from a insurance institution or from a pension fund. Even if it is very good in other respects, this community has a number of issues. Here's way too long, here's way too much, bad government, that's a bad government, that's right, I appreciate the tip, but it's also too long to work here, and it's too long to work. [[Up front.]] [["What, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, ……]] We do not give families and children enough opportunity to enjoy life and the days and the weeks and months because there is a kind of work vigilance going on here. We're terribly prone to that, Icelanders, to excuse everything with work. No, I'm not allowed to be, I have to work. Just this sentence, I have work to do, I'm sorry for a lot of things in Iceland, but not necessarily anywhere else. It doesn't seem good to be a workaholic, as you might think, but it's too nice to be here with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u186	A respectable president. It is quite remarkable that there is a very low Giin score in Iceland where there is no major multiple difference between the lowest and the highest salary. It's not too long since I was in that position to be on the lowest salary, so I just see it on my own payroll how little more it takes to get this economic freedom that's all about. Still, we do not get it out of some strange reason. I've often put it this way that... a bit of the second part of the speech... we're so short from being a community 100 years ago, but yet we're so different from society, even though we as men are exactly alike. [[The president calls.]] It's a little interesting that humans change much slower than society. [[The president calls.]] This situation is far behind these recent world changes, and this legal bill is an example of just how much longer we are trying to catch the train. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u187	President wants less of it. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u188	Madam President. That's right, we're on the back side. You're right. A senator says, there is no need for the last of these crowns. There's nothing to be done with much of the community. The car can't break down, the tooth can't be broken, then it's all upset. Sadly, there has been an increasing growth in the number of us and people who are not able to give their children what they want; opportunities to pursue sports, music, or other art studies along the school. Of course, it's a poem in our otherwise fine society. This bill we're discussing here does not change this, but through a concerted effort, the attitudes of the work market can be changed, but it needs mainly a political desire to reduce the division in the community, not to increase it, as is sadly done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u189	A respectable president. It is my opinion that some historical tragedies are of the nature of which they are not necessarily made by comparing them with other things that we also view as bad. That is why I think of that part of my talk. A senator named slavery, and when she mentioned a statement that might have seemed to be somewhat understood, it was now well - thought of slaves in her day because they were valuable. I'm not going to pretend that a senator in some way was carrying a volleyball of what happened there, but it's a little doubt to me that such a comparison is necessarily suitable for this discussion. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether it really feels that the circumstances of the large group of foreigners who may move here or who may even be moved in some way comparable or even worse than the conditions of a social group living west of the ocean at the time. I would like to have the senator respond to these thoughts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u190	Madam President. Many are shocked when these conditions of the work market are referred to as modern slavery. Things are not always the right names. What I was drawing attention to, I wasn't carrying volleyball from slavery either sooner or later, but what I was witnessing is a discourse being given at the National Museum meeting hall two years ago or so where this comparison was drawn up on the value of one slave at this time and again. It was a European institution that published these numbers. Now I don't know exactly what it was, but it was a striking comparison. There were cases of seasonal activities, including Scuba, young boys who are made to dive for certain shells, but when the season's over, they're just left on the island. Come on, get it, get it, get it pulled up there. That's what I was saying. I wasn't carrying volleyball at all. We condemned slavery, both in the past and in the present, and I'm not talking about the future. Let us join an organization to prevent this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u191	A respectable president. Well, then I've got a little better explanation for some ideas. Senator. She was then talking about a bottle of pearls. I may not see that this discussion is directly related. What I'd like to do is come by and what I'm trying to say is that the words we take and the comparisons we draw will have a slight effect on the reactions we react to certain social ills. If this situation is real, in Iceland, there is some form of slavery that is somehow comparable to what was known, there is no better law on chain responsibility, then there is something else and more that we need to do. There, people from different countries were moved to great numbers. If that's the case, it's not necessarily that a contractor is responsible for a sub-machine that's the problem we have to fight, but something everything, everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u192	Madam President. I can agree with what. A senator's need for a choice of words is not to be taken as slaves, nor must a word of slavery be found at all. It wasn't my intention here. I was just calling it a forced transfer when men are not free to go back because they don't even have their passes, they don't have their name, as has been the custom in Denmark, and they've written a lot about it. It directly applies to the welfare system, is applied for benefits and payments in the individual's name, and does not enjoy it in one way or another. We just need to be careful. It is not good for me to say, if I may say, subs, social subs, at the labour market, with employees' rents, or modern slave labors, as we know from the North countries all the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u193	A respectable president. The person standing here doesn't know all the details of the bill we're dealing with here tonight. This is an EEA directive that we are required to implement and we have probably little chance of affecting its contents as it appears, at least not materially. We are members of the EEA. We are required to implement this directive, and we have been late for the 25 years that we have been involved in the cooperation, and we have generally been slow to implement the directives that we should have made, as it has now brought us much prosperity to be involved in this cooperation. There has been considerable social improvements, rights, and work rights that came from outside us. There's no denying that. In terms of what we call a chain responsibility, it is now that no matter how thick a dove of regulations we accept, our body of Congress laws, or that's why a law we make, if we want and intent to compromise with these regulations, and this framework we put ourselves at hand. Sadly, he is firm among the foreigners, not just foreigners. We need to cultivate better morals, greater dignity. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u194	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to say, I don't care where it comes from. I'm not questioning this case because it's a connoisseur, far away. I realize that there are many things we've enjoyed from the European rights and therefore before the development of another, but that doesn't apply to my knowledge. We're supposed to bring this in, that's right. Let's do it, but let's be careful. I feel somehow that in the discussion today and that because these were given historic variations, the council showed this willingness to introduce this directive. What we're just pointing out here is that there's more to it. It seems that the left green green has put a tool in the hands of the council to do better, a concierge that is well established on the welfare committee and can be approved before the end of the council if anyone really wants to make something of this material.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u195	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Álf Ingadóttir for a detailed, careful passage, and one of them what. Councilmen who've been involved here today. Clearly, there is much knowledge and human experience in these matters. This has been quite a bit during the past few months and years. For my part, I support the proposed proposal, a concierge proposal made by the left green, for a chain responsibility group. I think it's a reasonable suggestion to use the summer even to get this bill better, but that if we're serious, we'll accept the Congress arrangement we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u196	Madam President. First, I would like to call the attention of a body of Congress to the new form offered by the U.S. Congress Office. This is coming out of the A-formate, I don't know if this is an attempt to get us back to the stage of making roulettes, or what it was called; here are requirements that we be relatively old-fashioned in dress, so it may be an attempt to do it, I don't know. Madam President. This is an important subject, although late. The objective is very noble, i.e. To ensure pay and other interest from foreign workers who are temporarily sent to Iceland. It turns out that if I recall correctly, the activities of the industry and in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, probably. The matter, however, is complicated and difficult to deal with. There have been many reports here, and even in most talks, that this is not going far enough. The Icelandic people are few, and we are very dependent on, in the swing economy we live in, to get foreign workers here. I remember that the lowest this ratio was in the last few years, 8.4% in 2008, and now it is 10.3%. It is quite expected that this could be even more effective during the edification period that is not at the end, although the government may be able to improve the development of infrastructure. Therefore, it is essential that we discuss these matters and secure the rights of those who come to work here, of course, to watch the human rights so that we are under the name of a civilized society, as well as to protect Icelandic employees. Social subheading is probably a phenomenon that has always been known but is increasing. I was two months ago in Norway at a meeting with the Group of Sisters of the United States in the North. There were two issues, mainly on the program; one of them was the future and how it is changing the entire environment of employees and participating in a labour market, as well as the social subsidiary of grassers. That is exactly what came out of speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfursson, that this is not limited to the construction industry, though perhaps most prominent in this regard in the process of the collapse. I remember, because I worked in that sector myself, that I was very irritated that I didn't care about what profession was discussed, when there was a news report about violations against employees, a man always saw the dreary construction grounds in the form. In fact, I noticed in the news last week, when this exact same matter was being discussed, in the case of foreign workers, in travel as well as in other cases, that the construction industry continued to dwindle in full form. Of course, there's a reason why he's become aol for this, but we need to be careful that this is not just taking place there. It's bigger. As mentioned in the above, it is quite likely that this will not be as much of a grassy business as it is growing in Iceland, the sector behind most foreign workers importing and employing most foreign workers. It's a matter of caring for the remuneration in Iceland as much as a foreign country, even though these specific laws only take place; I'll come into it better later. It is always better and better to see that the key is really to build a powerful, competitive, progressive society. There is an article on the island, a brief fraction, in which Egill Helgason refers to the study of the Swedish economy and a study performed by Bloomberg, which shows exactly this. That's what we need to protect. It is true that in many respects the Norwegian labour market and the Norwegian labour market model are very perfect and good. We are not to be content to do just what is acceptable in the European Union. We're supposed to be heading higher. However, it is an induction project, and we must not ignore the fact that there has been a great benefit from it, especially in social rights and work rights. I agree with what. paritaprevir No matter where good comes from, Ingadóttir Igadótir we should use it, but we can do even better. That is why in many respects I support the thinking and content of the bill. I hope there's a careful treatment and a lot of discussion and we'll do what we want and feel it needs to be done. I think that, on top of that, we should take a good look at and give a very good look at the Senate resolution of the left-hand party of chain responsibility, because it actually takes over the whole environment here, not only to the foreign workers who come here, and not even to all of them. I understand that the bill applies primarily to those who work on the staff property or come in from some group, but here, of course, a number of foreign workers come on their own. It would be a pleasure if the council were to be accompanied by a discussion on this bill, whether it runs out or goes into progress, cooperate with it, and accept it. That's extremely important. It has been observed here that although this bill contains chain responsibilities and here is a very timely step, it doesn't reach far enough. We're behind a lot of other people here in Iceland. It has shown that among companies this type of nationalization, the city of Reykjavík has done so, Akureyri has done so, and therefore we must look forward to the idea that the Council also has such laws. I find it interesting and thought - provoking. Álfheiður's Ingadóttir and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon don't have to be careful that the rules that others have set to make are even better off. In fact, the minister gave a very direct answer that they did not, I believe it is, but I think it should be considered because there was an interesting tip to which was involved in a competitive lawsuit. [[Up front.]] Now I'm not a lawyer, and in here are people who are, they may be able to answer that, but this is at least something we need to think about. That would be of little value if these progressive rural communities were to have something they could not enjoy. As I came into the past, things are changing tremendously. I've talked about it so many times in the short time I've been here that I'm sick of it. However, I have to mention the insane technological revolution that we have to face; men are not merely creating machines and devices that replace muscle power, as was the case in the 19th century, but they are creating a machine that somehow relieves the mindpower, and there are overhaulous changes in the labour market. Jobs disappear, jobs change, jobs become different, but it is absolutely clear, I think, that the work week will be shorter, it will change. So we have an overwhelming share in protecting the rights of the employees. We've all heard the stories about when, even the fathers, of some of us, stood down on the pier with a zigxpensist in hand, waiting for the foreman to pick them out and hire them for a day's work and so paid them a penny at the end of the day. That was a long time ago. Unfortunately, unless people don't carry their capes, they are waiting humbly for someone to call them a day's work or two to three hours' work. Now the cell phone is in its hand, waiting for an attractive offer. This trend is really fast. Therefore, we need to work hard, work fast, and establish more extensive laws that guarantee the rights of employees. I also agree that it is absurd, as I came in earlier, that this chain of responsibilities only reach construction because intellectual people always find ways to make money and take advantage of others'misfortunes, both in the construction industry and elsewhere. In fact, most of us are well - mannered in gods, but we need to hold on so that we do not get involved in foolish things. I repeat that I believe that this is still to be won and that such bill also applies to a domestic labour market; and I do so as to consider the council agreement made by the left green. According to these words, I end my case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u197	A respectable president. I'm asking why. Einarsson If he believes that the bill is going far enough in the protection of a foreign labor force in Iceland, he will be there. I have now heard a number of examples of people finding ways, including frequent change, to isolate foreign citizens from trade union societies and to use the ignorance of these individuals to cut them down or to use the direct threat. Does the senator think this bill is sufficiently broad? Should that include a bigger metropolitan labor force?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u198	Madam President. Now I don't know a Icelandic labour market well enough to know if that's true. In the talk, a member of the body brings up the subject. It may, however, be. As I came in earlier, we have to ensure the rights of all the employees, not only foreignmen, but also Icelandic. We have, as I have come in earlier, overexcitedly to the fact that there is an equation in society, and preferably larger than today. We can't help it because some kind of competitive situation depends on being forced to take a job or to perform an event for shameful wages and in situations where they cannot reject it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u199	A respectable president. Mind your own business. A senator of chain responsibility methodology? For example, does he see applications where this methodology could be used to deal with another kind of sub-creature, such as a social security report? This is another important factor in which corporate competitiveness is detracted from financial resources. Both problems lead to a person's being able to offer lower prices at job tenders.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u200	Madam President. At least I believe that chain responsibilities, such as those set out by the Akureyri Company, where I was assigned, and in Reykjavík and others, are positive steps, and we should pick them up here. On the other hand, for overemphasis in other factors, such as social networking and other factors, I believe that it should somehow be written into the general law, there should be rules that prevent people from being constantly practicing that way without real reasons why people go wrong, as they can. I think it's much better if it's inside a general law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u201	Madam President. Let's talk about it. A senator offers a few comments. First, I think it's time to think about it with reason. A senator that we now have a law on public purchases which, of course, are rooted in the EEA Treaty and have even recently been updated. It allows for public access to shopping policies. It is part of the public rule that public shopping policies, including rural areas and public companies, require more than that, in terms of social issues, equality, environment, and so on. The box around it is clear and I don't see that this bill should do anything with that frame. There's something else I wanted to draw attention to. The senator at and even ask him about the rights of foreign employees to settle down here and work. As noted in this discussion, we work for the Norwegian labour market model based on collective agreements. I didn't feel quite clear in a talk. The senator, whether he was urging us to leave that route and to move rather, as is customary in some countries, to legalize the terms and rights currently negotiated in general agreements. I'd love to hear it. That's what a senator does. Then I'd like to draw attention to it, because it has been introduced into so - called forced transport, or what we call today, most of the time, that this bill is intended to increase the information related to foreign companies in order to work on such a lesion as a man dealer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u202	Madam President. Hv. A senator in itself does not have to defend the EEA agreement or our relationship with the European Union in this way to me. I'm pretty happy about it, and at my best times, I want even further. Hv. A senator informed us that this was not limited to the rules of rural society. A senator could have even saved me three minutes in a talk if she had come earlier and told it so bluntly. But thank you. As to the question of whether I want to change the arrangement, that we leave this dresser contract channel, I don't want to, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u203	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer is, Let me ask him: Am I right to be understood? Congressmen in itself do not see in themselves the fact that this is a special handling of personnel property not bound by Icelandic collective agreements in the same way as any member of the country, since it is really being guaranteed by the bill that the main salary of the contracts value about these assigned employees as well? I'm asking why. A senator: Does he agree that it is working well to give the bill a walk so that it can at least make sure that it is comparable?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-09-64.u204	Madam President. Now I don't know it in the skin, but considering what I've read, and the main entry, I think it's a progressive step. I think we're definitely supposed to keep working with it. We'll see if it's OK or we'll make small changes. At the same time, we may need to take larger and larger steps to ensure the rights of the paymen and subsidies in our country.
