ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u1	By letter, dated April 24th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress on the following reports: on human resources of the state and the state's status, on the human resources of the government, on the human resources of the state's resources of the state, on the administration of the Commission, on the branch funds and the government's surveillance, on contracts for existing education centers, on high-school education: the organization and the management department, the campaign of dental projects for children of low-payers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u2	A respectable president. In fact, it is a historical deception to argue that health matters are being promoted in a new budget now available for the council. In fact, these deceptions are both presumptuous and unacceptable. First, there is no distinction between spending and investments. The plan combines everything and cuts into businesses hidden in investments. There is an increase of about 45 billion in health care, although more than 90% are involved in construction and less than 10% are involved in business. This type of presentation is designed for deception. In fact, this is also being done in the program where educational performance is hidden from the House of Icelandic teachers, who are in need of action and for a long time, but certainly not a business. However, it is the complete number game where 45 billion will be in minus 5.2 when you are better checked. During the next five years under the national budget, the cost of spending 45 billion to special hospitals in Iceland, and the quality of the ministers, saying that the increase has never been greater. María Heimisdóttir, director of the financial sector of the Land Hospital, traced this number in detail at the annual meeting of the Land Hospital yesterday and in TV news. The situation is: 35.6 billion are in investments because of the construction of a new land hospital. When the remainder is considered, the day will come in relation to a special project when a particular one, population growth, and other factors, the result is actually an incision of 5.2 billion in the ministry itself. Where to take it? From the hospital business, from the Hospital, from other health projects, or what? So it is, not an increase, but a cutting. A figure that actually aims to wrap serious cuts into houses. Finally, it is the personalization conflict, according to the understanding of a health minister who was going to put medical matters first but has now opened up to every private business in hospitals with unregulated access to the state's funds. Despite the serious comments made by a surgeon and despite the words of a secretary of his own, on March 23 following his persistent inquiry, there is going to be a medical breakthrough here in Iceland. The bottom line is this: cutting cuts, privatization, and deception. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, a respectable president, was this chosen? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u3	V.E.G. President. At the council's service on April 5, I rejoiced that the presidents of the HB Granda had interviewed the town administration of Aranesp and the Fax Department for the future plans for the company of Acquilin. I discussed the importance of all the members taking part in these whole - souled discussions, since it was a huge interest in the employees of HB Granda at Akrelin and the local Ac Arane. At the council, I also discussed that if this discussion with the town council of Aranesp and the Fax Forces in the nation's most important firm, i.e. HB Granda, without success, needed to be revised in today's greeting system. It would have to be considered more clearly if it would be possible to link a quota with settlements or to make it easier for rural society to take advantage of premiums in existing salaries, such as this did not threaten the security of many individuals. In the news on April 20th. Took a bit. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who is also president of the court. In a similar vein, the European Parliament's employment committee said that changing the laws on fishing management is necessary to ensure the structure laid down in the law. At least 100 people lose their jobs if the HB Grandi stops working on Aranesp. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who is 1st. The Northwestern district, however, concurred with those words. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon said that fishing laws would be considered within the system of government, in view of the fact that a hundred people would lose their jobs if the HB Grandi quit the agricultural work of Acquirei. This would be a fundamental change if HB Grandi moved from Avéri to Reykjavík. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to celebrate the words of these things. Senators. I certainly hope more blows. Senators here can agree with our words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u4	V.E.G. President. It needs to be reviewed in this hall that sales have been announced in the so - called Vifils Parking Country. The minister of finance was responsible for this. Therefore, he is saying that the legal right is the right thing to do. But there are other sources of financial resources for the government, such as selling shares in the banks in which the State is currently holding. It also provides authority to sell land owned by the State, but it has been complained that it is almost impossible to buy government wealth and make use of it for some time, for there is no direction. Happily, the number of young people are ready to make food for themselves and to do agriculture, to build up society, and to be housebound. Sadly, though, the trend has been that more and more earths leave the apartment. It has weakened very widely the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local grounds to ensure food production and equality for living. The government's got about 450 ground. Much of it is new to farming. According to Article 12. An apartmentlike structure must be prepared to have a permanent home on a farm and to practice agriculture unless otherwise agreed. This gives us great opportunities to strengthen our settlements and to support Icelandic agriculture, which has a wealth of knowledge about valuable things that include. In a healthy stock and knowledge of farmers in the land V.E.G. President. I'd like to draw attention to the program of the council today as a proposal for a interpretation of the state's tenure policy for farms. It's all part of the House's House of Booths. We feel that the situation is urgent, for the pleasure of land is no longer abundant, and the value of a cultivated land is gone uninhabited. V.E.G. President. We call for a policy on this case, not a hit-and-run. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u5	Madam President. Today, we celebrate a solemn day of the environment, reminding them of Sveinn Pálsson's son, who was one of the first Icelanders to highlight the importance of protecting nature and not overly concerned about its quality. That was 200 years ago. In accordance with preliminary regulations on national development programmes for the protection of nature and cultural memory adopted by the General Assembly last March, January 1, 2000. the proposal to come up with a resolution of a policy strategy to 12 years of age. In addition to this, a minister was to submit and publish a general strategy for building infrastructure in tourist roads, tourist attractions, and tourist attractions in this year, but there was nothing to do with them. However, there is a date published in October last year by the program that was to be specifically adopted for the year. They say, with President's permission: In view of the lack of infrastructure in many areas and the fact that long periods of construction will take place, the increase in agriculture and oversight is important. In writing to the secretary of the Environment and Resources to my inquiry on these matters, it is stated that he intends to use national protection to promote the growth of tourists at this time of the year. And also in response to a minister, by permission of the president, says: There is no question about the scope of further expansion. It was the beginning of March. It is now beginning to decline in May, and a third of the year, the temporary plan was completed. It is estimated that about 80% of the more than 2 million tourists who are expected to reach the country this year will come in particular because of nature. It is important to protect and make sure that we do not overdo its goods. This is even more urgent today than it was 200 years ago when Sveinn Pálsson's son lived. National Guards play a key role there. Madam President. This reduction in the strategy is unacceptable and insists that the extent of further increase in land management is made clear the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u6	Madam President. What's Iceland's resource policy? What is the environmental policy of this government? V.E.G. Environment Minister has said that there will no longer be a contributing factor in the removal of contaminated industry, where electricity is not to be sold. There seems to be differences between the highest. Environment Minister and Supreme Minister. Industrial Minister on the definition of what activities will fall under contaminated industry. At any rate, there is an answer from the highest. A Minister of Industrial Affairs who received more than a month ago questions from me about the definition. A clear answer to what activity is being discussed at the highest level is vital. Ministers comment on contaminated industry. Is aquaculture in open seas considered a contaminating industry? In recent years, the debate over fish farming has not only been turned toward the more successful planning and employment, but also to the fact that the environment and the risks of providing permit for fish farming in open seas. How are the allowed permissions assigned to use this resource? What will be the price of the common profit of the people? What's the policy? Since the beginning of the oil industry, Norwegians have carefully made sure that the oil resources are being made into the nation's investments. On the day before yesterday, reports were made on the news reports of Station 2 called one of Iceland's largest energy projects, research and search for geothermal temperatures on the shores of the country. Those who seek the energy then, if found, get the priority for the approval of electricity production. Will they pay taxes from their resource resources to the Norwegian role model? March 9th. I wanted answers from the highest. Financial and economic secretary on what would be the income of a state fund if a power company paid taxes from a resource fund to a Norwegian model. No response has been received even after more than six weeks since the question was submitted. What's the resource policy, Madam President? Is she just, like, first to come, first to go? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u7	Madam President. Since I'm from the Faeroe Islands, I've always loved the special interaction Iceland and Faeroe Islands have had over the years. I think the top reached the last summer when Midtown Coastal was always filled when Iceland was competing in EM, and the celebration was no less than the celebration at home. But there is another nation that thinks about us as much as Faeroeses, and that's Greenland. I had the opportunity to live in Greenland for a few months and was always very well received as an Icelander. How, though, can our dealings with the Greenlands become as warm as our dealings with the Faeroes? One of the key factors is more business. I'd like to use this opportunity to commend former foreign minister, please. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, for laying extra emphasis on business with Greenland during his foreign minister's reign. Business is an important factor in increasing national independence, as Iceland and I were well acquainted when we took our business to a greater extent from Dana after the first war. We're not a big nation at all, but, on the other hand, we're the deal the Royal Arctic and Eimships made last year a huge, important leap for Greenland and also for Iceland. Both countries will build freight ships that will be the largest in the history of both nations. To highlight the important business interests that are developing, the Greenlanders plan to open an office here in the following months. I'm glad you're here. Eimships and societies such as KALAK and Hyak have been led by improved communication between countries, and now it is time for politicians to take over. We're here to encourage more conferences between the highest councils. It's up to us to promote the increased impact of Greenland in the Northern Council. We're supposed to be increasing our chances of importing products like reindeer and cudddly meat. We should encourage more friendships in sports, and at the same time we should strengthen the fine work that KALAK and the French work by setting up a proper Greenland Fund, which has not been paid any special scholarship since 2009. I trust the highest. Minister of state to follow these matters fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u8	Madam President. I'm also just going to cover today's environment and call attention to the campaign of Land Protection, clean Iceland, starting today and ending May 7th, or rather, the campaign is over and never ends. The focus now is on plastic pollution in the ocean, which, of course, is called for that as many as are involved in cleaning up our shores. You can plan your own coastal cleaning by entering the clean - up area and getting good advice. This effort will be launched at the coast of the National School of Iceland in Garthtown today, where students of the Zealand School are going to draw attention to the plastic pollution, including the U.S.A. by going to sea on a latrine and by dragging plastic monsters to the sea. The results of new research indicate that there is much more plastic in the oceans than we have ever realized, and scientists believe that it is seriously underestimated by up to 80%. Lavers, with this study, says that from the coasts of Australia, about 75% of all the garbage on the coast is plastic. On this occasion, I think Iceland and I need to ask ourselves, " Do I want to take the initiative and follow in footsteps like this? ' French people, forbid a lot of disposable plastics. Today, too, an exhibition in the botanical garden, where 70 students in the fifth grade of Saturday School represent a presentation of artistic products that they cooperated with an art teacher at the National Arts University of Iceland, where it is intended to draw attention to the effects each one can have and to have on his environment and nature. I think that as most people, we should stop by and see how our children see the environment and how they see the opportunity to clean it up and make it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u9	Madam President. I want to discuss the rights of the hired people. The workaholics'day, payors in the country, May 1. I encourage all to take part in marches far and wide throughout the country. An iron sharpening process will not help this right government. It is announced in a new financial program that reduces the basic rights of workers by shortening the unemployment period for two years. Without any consultation with the labor movement, this is being proclaimed. This is one of the basics of what the pay people in the country have earned with a long struggle, the right to go to unemployment rates or wages, I would call it - when unemployment is. They've been cut off rights. In 2006 they were impaired, leaving five years for three years. In 2014, they went from three years to two and a half. Now it is announced to shorten the period for two years. Unemployment is no joke. There's no job at all for fun. I strongly encourage all labour market operations to be done in a positive and upbuilding way, as was done after the collapse of the left government, to make it easier for people in unemployment benefits to go to college in high school. What will the present government and the one who was before do? They prevent people from going to high school at 25 years of age. That is not a positive step. But we can't direct unemployed people into the forwardness of a community partner whose arm is quite different and does not take into account that these rights have been earned by hired persons. It is a minimum and clear requirement that the government and government at each time agree with the employee movement, since the County Court of Reykjavík, U.S.R. brought a case against the State and covered it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Humans were not authorized to perform the same procedure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u10	President has to ask. Councilmen respecting deadlines. Right away. Senators are 20 seconds into their two - minute public speaking session.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u11	A respectable president. We live in the age of three. Not just that they are now, but that is exactly what the government expects them to continue. Its entire budget is based on its continuing expansion and economic growth. Such situations are carried out. It's obvious that, if anything is, there's going to be a lot of work to do and even start. In such a situation, it is of utmost importance that all labour markets are involved. I'm especially happy to be the highest. Ministers should sit here and listen to me, I know that he doesn't like to listen to me much more than to listen to me, because I think we really need to be on guard right now when it comes to these matters. The rights of the workers must be carefully observed. I don't see where the government planned that it should specifically promote the activities involved. That the work force should work together properly with the labor movement and not place the funds needed to keep all these issues clear. Under certain circumstances, these issues can be extremely ugly, per se. In general, though, things need to be on tables when this happens. When there is growth in a language class right now, these institutions need to grow with them. It seems that the government does not intend to deal with this by adding extra money to the seminary. We don't have to look far back in history to see a bomb in these matters, unfortunately, we've been watching too little, thus violating the rights of those whom should least be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It was only ten seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u12	The speech time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u13	Madam President. Here at this time, we will discuss a Congress hearing made up of Congress party Porta, which is suggested to investigate in particular what is called the World Bank's investment route. That's fine. I was one of those who criticized the way of investment at the time, based on the fact that it was being violated an equal rule, but there is another reason Pirars consider to be an investigation. It is noted, however, that last night, a judgment sentence in the province of Reykjavík fell in the Samherja case against the Federal Bank of Iceland. The Court was unusually clear, unambiguous, of the fact that the management of the Federal Bank had not been the way we demand that the institutions and officials of the State be treated. Last year, the Council Board of Directors and Commission of the Council began a investigation or an coverage of the head of the head of the Penitentiary. That work did not end for various reasons. I think there have been a number of developments in the past few months and weeks, now last yesterday, with the decisive judgment of the district, and therefore, there is a reason for the monitoring committee to resume this work and to see in what way the Federal Commission of the Federal Bank, when it comes to the head of Pension, has been held in recent years, and whether the offenders shown in this court are in a way that the Council has to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said earlier and was to be the main part of my speech. Injustice, no matter what it appears to be, it is intolerable. The judgment of the province yesterday mentioned with regard to the Federal Bank in the Samherja case is very clear. We remember some of the leadings of this case, what a man did to that news and how they were treated at the time. Of course, they gave you anxiety, which led you far beyond the cliffs and seriously harmed this big, powerful business. It has been observed repeatedly in the many stages of this case that none of what was said there seemed to be a foothold. It's very serious that it can happen. A respectable president. There are more people who are at war with a financial company in Iceland who believe that they have been wronged but find it difficult to attend their rights. In recent years, many have approached me with many matters, and I have to say, as it seems, that the number of Icelanders has not received just treatment in the system, and there is no way to see if they have been wronged. They are called on a lawsuit, but individuals do not sue banks for decades. This will cost them much more than the debt they owe them. I believe the General has made a task force with less cause than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u15	President. A hundred days is a great stage, and I want to congratulate the government on that time, although many consider this cooperation to be an unloved marriage. But a hundred days is not a very long time. Yet, this government was privileged to have enormously little trust in the people of the land. That trust has not increased. So I'd like to ask the state council what they think they need to do to build trust in their work. You see a lot of failure in the government business. They have failed, including. Reports made by members of Congress that they do not support the central affairs of the government. Yet, this government has not done anything to bring back its smaller share. Nothing. If you're using e.g. The budget and work it in a more cross - political way would be much more likely to have such a strategy live between terms of election. But it's all worked here for one day. What was done well before is taken and torn apart. There is no fine start on important tasks when the meal day ends without water to ensure the support and solidarity of the parts to the important work to be done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u16	A respectable president. I'm an amateur minister of ethics. Yesterday I sent a petition to the prime minister for his treatment of the tax report with regard to the Minister's Code. I look forward to the answers of the minister to those questions. This time, however, I would like to turn my attention to another minister, who I believe has violated the moral code of the minister, the health minister. April 19th. sent an announcement to correct misunderstandings that the office saw in the interpretation of the law. The surgeon confirmed that the clinical situation met the minimum standard for specific hospital services required by law for the health - care minister to grant leave to such services. The surgeon's announcement was followed by a health minister's recommendation during an unsupervised inquiry period at the council, where a minister said that it was not his to permit, but to give leave to a field physician. There are two people here who don't agree, the surgeon and the minister. Why is that against a minister's code? Yes, in Article 6 a of the Secretary of Morality says, by permission of the President: The public and the media should be informed by a regular and orderly means of the work of the Ministry. Correction should be made as soon as possible a misinformation or misunderstanding that may arise regarding the duties of a minister. If what a surgeon says is correct, more than a month has passed since a minister of the Council lied about a week ago by the surgeon's surgeon to correct that misunderstanding. I think it is as early as possible to correct this misunderstanding, let alone a month, but a week should be sufficient for a minister to correct that misunderstanding. The next step is to determine whether this was a misunderstanding between a minister or a misdirection - and hence a lie.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u17	A respectable president. It has been noted that now more than 100 days have passed since that government began ruling. For this reason, I would like to have a few words about the disrespect I think ministers have shown to a council and a nation, starting with quoting 49th. The Parliamentary Code of the Generals. It says, by permission of the President: The activities of the European Commission are under surveillance by members of the Parliament, members of the Parliament, and members of the Parliament. Allegers' surveillance role will be turned to the executives responsible for the administration... This surveillance work has often been very difficult for us members of this hall. Let me give you one example of that. Early January, the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson, then secretary of finance and economics, to arrange a meeting of the administrative and monitoring committee to discuss a report on domestic property. By the end of March, the highest power was canceled. Environment and resource secretary to a council meeting without any explanation. In view of the circumstances that existed back then, this absence was particularly negative. At that time, the big news came after one after another from United Silicon's factory in Smokeytown. I now pronounce for the health minister. He seems to be gone despite repeated clothing. He's a straight shooter. The media, the fourth power, cannot take over to demand a word from him. It's annoying. It would be nice too if he showed up in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u18	Madam President. Yesterday we discussed a query about psychology services in high school. I make it clear that the need is just as important in the universities of the country, especially in public schools. In the near future, I plan to propose a concierge proposal along with another whatnot. Congress on Psychological Services in Public Colleges That matter is of utmost importance to university students, young people. At the University of Iceland, half the status of a psychologist is for 12,500 students. In contrast, the U.S. school psychologist (SO) body says that there are over 500,700 students behind each school psychologist, but the intention of giving advice is not only to counsel but also to treat more than 1,000 students behind it. 33% of people feel that they cannot afford mental - health services. This is especially common in young, income - stricken people. So, for example, a normal number of treatment times for anxiety and depression are about 15 hours, which cost about 220 of you. A dollar. In contrast, to put this in context, about 30% of the amount each person borrows is up to a maximum of one person's means of living in a rented house. Clearly, then, it is impossible for young people to support themselves and to seek normal help. People wonder, " Why is there no interest in young people? ' I think there is more to interest than the fact that young people are calling for something to be done in these matters. If we search for financial support, one of the largest parts of the disability bill is paid for mental illness. 46 you. individuals are mainly supplied with antidepressants per year. It is not that antidepressants can do no good, but we also need to render service in the early stages of the situation. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that this noble council and whatever. The members of this room will discuss this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u19	A respectable president. I would like to propose a synopsis to the government to validate for Iceland in the hand of a free trade between the EFTA and the Philippines signed on April 28, 2016. EFTA and the Philippines began a debate over the construction of a vacation contract in March 2015 and ended in February 2016. The contract contains mutual delinquency and a reduction in industrial products, marine products, and theindustrial agricultural products. Tolls will thus fall from most of the marine products and industrial products exported from Iceland to the Philippines, as well as from the major agricultural products produced here in the United States for export. The treaty will therefore improve the competitiveness of Icelandic immigrants who export their goods to the Philippines. The Member States also contributes to the common project of EFTA to improve the market access of their enterprises to market markets around the world using free trade agreements. The EFTA countries have combined 27 such agreements with 38 states or states. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the free trade agreement. It tells us that a contract includes a contract. the provision of trade, trade of services, investments, protection of mental rights, public shopping, competitive business, and sustainable development. The export of goods from Iceland to the Philippines has been small, i.e. which has a range of over 150 to 1,100 million. K. every year. In particular, there have been exports of instruments, especially scale and equipment related to soils, as well as small exports of intact macroil. To a considerable extent, Europeans have sold their services and knowledge for research and use in the Philippines. In recent years, imports from the Philippines have studied some 300 million. K. every year. With mutual delinquency and a reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the growing trade between countries. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second session. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u20	Madam President. Of course, there's nothing but good about saying that it's still being added to the sabbatical agreements that the EFTA countries have been busy doing, and generally nothing but good about it. However, it is customary in such a situation, and it has previously occurred under similar circumstances to ask questions about communication with a talker or a treater of human rights. When such agreements have been made, it has been expected that humans will be able to manage them in this kind of relationship and be happy to do at least that. put down the books or somehow walk away, making it visible that these issues have been adopted. I don't think I have to go further into what I'm referring at this time, as is the situation in the Philippines. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of State how things were happening this time. Did you adopt the EFTA State's standard of human rights, and was it somehow done in the interview?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Granted, recent medical conditions in the Philippines have caused concern. Rodrigo Duterte became president of the Philippines at the end of June last year, two months after the EFTA holiday contract and the Philippines were signed. It is quite true to say that on the part of the EFTA states it has been emphasized that the privacy of the EFTA Convention is under protection by human rights. In harmony with this, in the preamble of the Treaty with the Philippines, the commitment of the states to promote democracy, legal regulations, human rights and human rights in accordance with the terms of the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. In this regard, it should be made known that during the past month, I severely criticized the Philippines and President Duterte at the scene of the United Nations Human Rights Council. This criticism has been followed by government officials on the scene of the Council of Human Rights. Then, at the beginning of May, the next cycle of a so - called peer review begins at Geneva. The Philippines is there to consider. We will draw our comments and questions to local authorities in that process. In view of the circumstances in this country, it is now to be expected to be unfashioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u22	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this information. I think it's a reason to bring this up to the previous guys. If a minister did not specifically bring it into his parable speech, which was certainly short. It's good as far as it goes. The question, though, is whether to stop there. While this may last so in time, the question remains whether it is possible to validate the agreement under these circumstances or whether there may be evidence to put it on ice or to linger on those materials primarily in the mind of trying to achieve results and create increased pressure. It appears, then, that Duterte did not do much of what the international community has done to him and to show the world's finger. It's a question of what does it take for them to try to put pressure on some developments in the right direction there. But I thank you very much. Ministers before and believe that it is good to know that humans have not forgotten the human rights issues on this cycle and that the standard procedures are in the introductions of the agreement. Also, a minister may have used an opportunity to draw attention to the situation in his office.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u23	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when it comes to trying to do what we can to pressure the governments that do not respect human rights, which, unfortunately, are a lot of people around the world. We will continue to do so. Then it's, like, a cot. A senator wondered, " What's the best thing to do in this situation? ' As for the EFTA states we're in agreement with them, Switzerland has validated this, and Norway and Liechtenstein are planning to do it right now in the spring months. This is always the question of who is being punished. When we make a deal like this, the people who make the money will be the common people in those countries. The more we interact with these countries, the more likely I would generally expect, at least what the Western countries have done, at least we have made free trade agreements, not only from EFTA but also from the EU and other countries we compare ourselves to, with countries and yet do not compromise anything from the requirement that humans fulfill what we feel to be human rights. Of course, there is a danger if we do not validate the agreement that we punish the least, the common people in these lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u24	Madam President. We are here on the validation of a free trade deal between EFTA and the Philippines signed on April 28, 2016, Bern, Switzerland. Just a few weeks later, on June 30, of that year, the president of the Philippines, called Rodrigo Duterte, took over. He had previously worked as mayor of Davao for an entire period of 22 years and had won a reputation as a zealous, dynamic advocate against drug dealers, and other people associated with them. He went so hard as the mayor against this drug problem that under his protective wing, according to the statistics of human rights organizations, killing 1,400 drug users, street children, and petty criminals, without trial or law. During his presidency, Duterte has not compromised his efforts to combat drug addicts. Rather, this chief officer of the Filipino Army and police force there has given more to the country than before and held out an inhuman and inhuman war against drug users and salesmen and had even more residents in his time as president than when he held the mayor of Davao City. In all, the Human Rights Watch and Human Rights Association in the Philippines had recorded killings in 4,800 inhabitants during Duterte's Presidency last year, directed to the President's Police or Special Forces of His Ways, 4,800 persons who had been killed without a court order in over two months of Presidency Duterte's reign, by his permission and by his order. The reason this terrible murder and execution of its citizens has been permitted by the Philippines president, the government of police, and its military forces is simple: He consistently promised that the authorities under his control should kill them with cold blood suspected of drug dealing or drug abuse. During the first few weeks of his office, the president repeated this message. Those who would practice this killing for the President would not be judged for murder. And the U.S. courts have been powerless to the president, who has people killed in the streets of his home without court and law, killing unjudged civilians, but who were killed in cold blood at the command of the president of the United States. On August 18, 2016, just one and a half months after Duterte took over the Philippines Presidentship, the United Nations and experts in human rights in the Philippines were challenged by the U.S. government to respect the legal and legal system in the country and have criminals judged in drug crimes in the courts, thereby respecting the social rights and legal rights of people to be judged in court. Not by promoting the gangs and groups of gunmen on the Filipino government, people were out on the streets, killing people called in the language of human execution. These executions without trial are still under way for the people of the Philippines when we address here the government's synopsis proposal to validate a non-missary agreement with the Philippines. There is no need to remind anyone in this hall that these horrible actions violate international contracts of human rights and international commitments to national rights in every state. The response of President Dutertes to the words and encouragement of the United Nations to respect laws and courts was simply threatening to withdraw the United Nations Philippines and thereby dishonor the international commitments of the country. If those executions were uncondemned and corrected, there could be little doubt that it would be a moral right to validate a vacation agreement with a state where its president represents the killing of citizens, it may also be worth referring to other grave violations of human rights that occur in the Philippines, which have made very serious comments by human rights groups. It features the highest government attacks on the indigenous population during the last year when 6,000 natives faced protests in the city of Kidapawan to demand government assistance by providing them with basic supplies for long - term droughts. Dutertes responded by shooting at Protestants and killing people in their midst. Crimes of human rights in children by Filipino governments have occurred, and serious comments have been made, now the last year. It may remind us that the government of the country has held at least 140 homeless street children in the wake of a meeting of the Asian Council of the Churches, which took place in November 2015, and held them in captivity during the meeting. Human Rights Watch has also made serious comments and called attention to child labor in Filipino gold mines at a depth of 25 yards, where children have been used to dive into waters below the earth to find gold. The gay rights of homosexuals have also strongly opposed discrimination against gays in the Philippines and other people who because of their sexual orientation or gender have been discriminated against by law against self - righteous education and other legal rights. All in the time of the president. The rate of hatred against homosexuals has increased since Duterte took over, and the number of transversaries has been the greatest in Southeast Asia. All of this told me that I am absolutely forbidden to understand why the government of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Bright Future wants to legalize and validate here a vacation contract with the Philippines, where the President, Rodrigo Duterte, lives in power. It is entirely out of my mind to see that a government that claims to emphasize human rights, equal opportunities, diversity, freedom and responsibility, as well as the respect for the differing principles presented in Article 3. Government contract. It is my duty to understand why the highest. The Minister of State here recommends this matter while Duterte is the president of the country. Why does the government of Iceland bring such a case to the Generals Hall? Why does the Independence Party government, the Revolutions, the Bears of the Future want to promote business dealings with murderers? Is business interests really considered more than human rights? If, on the basis of the validation of a free trade deal with the Philippines, the situation described here is impossible to conclude, as if the current government of Iceland would put commercial interests ahead of respecting human rights and international commitments regarding the rights of its citizens. We have the right to get honest answers to why the government wants to deal with a government that is as serious as it really is. Good comments, like the highest. The minister of the State was here describing an answer, not enough when such violations of human rights are involved. The preamble of the contract, with the permission of the President, explains various causes and objectives of a contract with the making of the contract. That's where even the two of them come from. until: The commitment of the states to promote democracy, justice, human rights, and freedom in accordance with national rights, including in accordance with the regulations of the United Nations Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. Those words are meaningless, Madam President. If anyone could do it, they'd be at the top. A minister of state to respect human rights would not bring such a matter into this table of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u25	Mr. President. It was an excellent tour of trouble. A senator of the evil leader Rodrigo Duterte, president of the Philippines. There is no dispute that the situation in the Philippines now is serious. These are serious violations of human rights, and these are the bad government the president represents. Remember, though, that in the Philippines there are 100 million people. of men. The Philippines are republics, so far at least You could hear from a talk or two. A senator said she didn't agree to sign off on this vacation agreement. A senator rejects it. Then I'd like to ask: How does it benefit the citizens of the Philippines to help them break off the link of this reign of terror by denying the citizens of normal relations, international trade? Would it not be easier to focus on how governments can communicate with governments in the Philippines, oppose the violations of human rights that are taking place, as well as the interests of people in the Philippines, with the hope that they will succeed in breaking off the link of this reign of terror?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u26	A respectable president. If I understand a question, why? A senator right now believes he's importing for 300 million. K. each year and the export of a volume of about 50 to 5,100 million. K. This year, there is a right way by the Icelandic government to promote protests against killing citizens in a country that we would like to negotiate with free trades. It's a business deal that's at the highest. The minister of the state stands here, grinning at the moment. A senator, that's the way to come on -- A respectable president. I want to make comments about behavior. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, who leans on him and makes a deal with the senator who stands in a pit. To answer his question, I would like to say that I'm not validating a vacation agreement is the way to nurture human rights in the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u27	Mr. President. That was an interesting answer. Senator. I don't think that in this matter it's about Iceland's business interests, as the senator reviewed the figures that came out there. It is true that we do not have much business or dealings with government officials in the Philippines or business dealings with citizens there. Nevertheless, my question was, how does it help the people of the Philippines to get rid of these evil government to refuse to confirm this EFTA holiday deal? I couldn't quite figure out what was going on. A senator in this regard. Does the senator believe that we are to classify the kingdoms of the world, depending on where bad governments or good governments are and to abandon dealings with citizens of such countries, to stop shopping? [[Up front.]] It's one form of communication, isn't it? [[Up front.]] It would take a large portion of the 100 billion. people who live in the Philippines to strengthen their civilian class and thus rid themselves of wicked governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u28	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what's going on later. A senator when he talks about his dealings with the people. We're talking about the validation of a vacation agreement between EFTA and the Philippines. As mentioned in my speech earlier, if only. A senator has listened to it, and I am obliged to understand why we stress to validate this vacation contract while the president of Duterte is in power. Good comments are not enough. I believe that we should not validate a free trade deal with a state where killing and killing are practiced without a court order at the order of their president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u29	Mr. President. Now I'm very into a vacation store. I believe that a vacation store between countries is a good thing. It can contribute greatly to the expansion and spread of democracies and human rights in certain cases. It is not without reason that free trade agreements such as the one being discussed today, between EFTA and the Philippines, contain laws such as in the prologue where the countries render their commitment, by permission of the President: ▪ To support democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and freedom in accordance with their duties to national rights, including the United Nations Convention and the UN Declaration of Human Rights and Human Rights There are reasons why we put these things in vacation contracts. That is why we need to ensure that certain core goals, fixed minimum limits, exist before we begin to favor countries with our business dealings. This is not to say that Iceland's business will be controlled and will determine the outcome in the Philippines. We know that what's going on in the Philippines will be totally unchanged, whether we accept this deal or not, but we have an opportunity to send a message here. The message should be that countries that have not met basic human rights in an acceptable way will not be allowed to shop with us until they have improved. Since I have come to the Philippines myself and have met good people in that country, I well know that there are many good things in this country and many things that can be improved by a greater vacation store. But the political situation in the Philippines right now is completely unacceptable. We can even see it. For yesterday, April 24th, the charge of 77 pages was sent to the International Court of Justice in Hague. Attorney Jude Sabio Sabio sent charges against Rodrigo Duterte over the murder of over 9,400 people. They were simply murdered in one way or another under his authority and control, in part, in whatever case. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir ran off earlier. This is a critical and serious violation of human rights. We do not have as independent states that view human rights as a very important part of society's design to accept it and to participate in the favor of governments that act like this and kill people in this way. When Duterte is gone, we should take up this vacation deal, once there's been some improvement in the government in the Philippines. We should even try to increase our business with this country as much as possible, but not today, not as it is, not while this man kills people and sends out killing squads, killing squads to execute people for no other offenses than being addicted to drugs or even for having been poor in the wrong place at the wrong time. It's not supposed to last. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u30	A respectable president. I thank a senator very much for his excellent speech. I would take it only by the words of a business venture to favor people. I think business is two-sided. But enough about that, I'm not going to make it the focus of my counter. I can tell you what. A senator says that I have been in a position to celebrate a vacation contract almost on the street, where I am part of a nation that entered some sort of vacation business relationship, which is the European Union. It was in my old country, Poland. I remember well that summer in 2003 when the Polish agreed to march into the European Union. So I was delighted, along with the majority of Polish citizens in my old country. That's why it's simple, I mean. Part of the reason is that a vacation store as good as it is, it is not as beautiful to extend human rights as any other form of international cooperation. It is that in this second fine piece of paper there is no provision for people, citizens, between the Philippines and the EFTA countries to be any easier in some way. It was very enjoyable in connection with the validation of the EFTA Treaty, or Georgia and the European Union, that, in part, it involved a passport-free journey from Georgia to the European Union. I think such things can have an effect on the pressure of the government to promote human rights. I think the threat of not validating this vacation agreement is not enough for governments in these countries to improve their efforts, since pressure from the public is not enough. I wondered if the senator would have any idea of this, since he has taken a good look at free shop agreements. Does he have a view of how such treaties can be made to increase pressure on governments to improve their rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u31	Mr. President. I'm going to first make sure that there's no passports between Georgia and our countries, including the U.S.A. Europeans, is not part of the Icelandic holiday contract and EFTA with Georgia. Rather, it is the Schengen Cooperation. It just happened that it happened in the same week. I welcomed that. And I'm generally happy when free shops are made. I thought it was a great time when Poland and other countries joined in the European Union because such cooperation helps. I will also contribute to further international cooperation and a country vacation market, such as. Europe and Moldova or Ukraine, Georgia, increasingly, even the Azerbaijan, countries that do not have a completely clean badge at the time of human rights. But there's a limit, there's a line we have to draw. I think there's an interesting point. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek made it clear that people from abroad do not have freedom of movement in this contract, which is usually not done in EU contracts with other countries. But I think it is very important that the so - called four freedoms of the European Union, which are about free flows, services, capitals, staff, human resources, make a big difference because if the funds and products are allowed to move to the cheapest places in the world, including the world. Filipinos, but the people are not allowed to move to areas where there is the best wage, are creating some kind of hole in the world where human rights violations are allowed to eat grass. We know that. The fact is, though, that the Dutertes government does not even meet the minimal conditions for human rights that we know were respected in Poland in 2003.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u32	A respectable president. It is true that the minimum human rights, and more, were held in Poland in 2003 most likely because of its cooperation, it requires governments to take real action in behalf of human rights. I'm not here to argue that the solution to this matter is simply offering the Philippines to the European Union. I can say it's an untimely step. But I'm only pointing out that I think it's a more successful way if we're going to use a vacation store in the interest of spreading human rights, which I think it's realistic and good, we have to be a little more in contracts like these that are attracted to the freedom of ordinary people, because it would push more pressure on the public in those countries to demand that the government bend to the international community in these matters. I don't know why. A senator agrees with me in that, but I am at this point in view that it is entirely right to accept this agreement. I don't see that we have the cards that would make things better for the public in the country in view of the way all the problems are handled. But I believe the future can be given the experience that political speech in the countries changes considerably when people in the country can travel free to and from other countries, they can work there and study, but there are only some goods and money to run through. The pressure is much higher when that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u33	Mr. President. I would agree with this if we had some kind of obligation in this contract that there would be some limitations in the nature of the contract if a major violation of human rights, as we do in the other fixed agreement. In the Council of Europe, for example. ..................................................... There is something that we should consider with countries such as Russia at the moment, even Azerbaijan, for just a major violation of human rights. Now we have business pressure on Russia right now. Despite being a real bastard and just not a good man, Vladimír Pútín has not been told to kill 9,400 people so that I know, perhaps some hundred by his orders, even some thousand, but not in such bloody and brutal ways as Duterte. Would we be involved in this business pressure only because it's political right for us? It's a little contradictory to say: Well, Philippines, they're so far away, maybe that doesn't matter. It's nice to go to a vacation store with the Philippines because it's so simple, because the 9,400 people who have been killed are just a little distance away from us and do not get us political in the same way -- somehow acceptable. I say no to that. I say we should wait on this business deal. We should wait on this vacation shop and that we should use this opportunity to send the message that human rights violations are not acceptable, and I would love to go to the highest level. A minister of foreign affairs would present them with even very rude messages to the Filipino government. They've never been, and they won't. We should not go to free trades with countries that go that way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u34	President. It would be unnatural, however, if members of the Parliament did not call attention to the situation in the Philippines in connection with this vacation agreement. It's a bad timing. I was one of the very few members of Congress who did not pay a way for a two - sided vacation deal with China exactly because I knew, no matter how beautiful the text was, the good promises were to pressure to protest human rights violations in China, that it wouldn't happen. I'd like to, in view of the fact that, because it was held when that vacation agreement was accepted that the Icelandic government would claim that human rights would be respected in Tibet, human rights would be respected to minority groups in China like Faun Gong and the Muslims, that I have not seen that it was. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister of State whether the secretary of state intends to do so, whether or not he intends to enforce what was in this two-sided free trade deal with China. I want to tell you a little story about that about two weeks ago. I was at a meeting of the International Parliaments Association where a very controversial resolution was eventually adopted, a statement that the Russians could write, was discussed that it was not permitted to interfere with national internal affairs, such as. Evidence of human rights violations. I told the Chinese representatives who were talking about how they had been affected by their internal reality in the government and reminded them of two words. I said, "I have two words for you. I have Tibet, and I have Taiwan." Then the senator of China reminded me, in front of all the others, that the Icelanders had made a free trade with China, where the Icelanders accepted one of China. I have never acknowledged one of China and explained to him that I had said no to this vacation contract because I am aware that all the vacation contracts that the Chinese authorities have taken was to sign with various countries that have been paralyzed. Although it has been promised repeatedly, including When representatives of the State Department came to the State Department, when it was being considered on this contract, that everything in our power would certainly be done to put pressure on human rights to be respected in China, nothing has been done since this contract went into effect. I think it's very sad. Now the evidence is that we are going to an unprecedented time in the Philippines to make a vacation contract. We're going to glorify, by making this deal, the terrible situation in which we live. It's just that way. More than 9,000 people have been murdered, and it's not only now, after Duterte became president, who has been represented by organized murders of civilians, it was also during his time as mayor. Then he ordered, among other things, murder of journalists, political opposers, pregnant women, and a baby. Is that the kind of people we want? This man is not worthy of his destruction, and those who enforce his terror, that we give them our hand this day. On the other hand, it should be a promise from us to reach the Philippines when they are released from this murderer. I know it's going to be a deal like the French holiday deal, so I'd like to score the highest. The minister of foreign affairs to show in a very decisive way that the Icelanders abuse what is happening in the Philippines. I would very much like the Council to include, a report by the Foreign Affairs Committee, a strong statement of how citizens, and particularly those who are sick, such as addicts, are at risk, and how many have been killed. This murder wave is not over yet. Yesterday, Duterte reported that he was going to be 50 times as vicious as Islamic terrorists. He said, "Give me vinegar and salt, and I will eat them. " It's not difficult to deal with people like that. We're not making a business deal with the nation. We're making a business deal with the authorities. That's it. Stop throwing dust into the eyes of the common people here in a council hall by claiming that we are saving the nation in the Philippines, the good people there. Let's face reality. This is not the time to agree to a business agreement with the Philippines. This is not the time. If this is to be agreed, as I suppose, I'll challenge the highest. The minister of the State to put it into practice, saying in a very graphic way that such government is not something we can accept and that we condemned an encounter with patients in the Philippines. I want to score the highest as well. Secretary of State to enforce a two - side business agreement with China and to condemn minorities there, whether it is people who are fighting for democracy, lawyers who are fighting for those whose rights have been violated, the media, the people of Tibet, or the members of Falun Gong. I would very much like to see the Icelandic authorities try to inform or condemn organ transplants from prisons in Chinese prisons. Organism is taken from the living prisoners of Falun Gong; this is not some theory but has been demonstrated, and it is very serious. I want it to be the first job of the highest. Secretary of State, when he meets Chinese politicians, informs us that organ transplants on living prisoners are something we severely condemned. Sadly, no matter what we say, it will have no effect. When it is claimed that making a business deal with the Philippines today will change something for democracy in that country, that's just a lie.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u35	Mr. President. It was an interesting introduction, an interesting speech with a man. A senator, especially by drawing out the holiday deal with China, which was made earlier in the years during the left administration of VG and the United States. It was interesting to hear a point of view. A senator to the agreement that has to do with one China or whether the international community has something on it compared to accepting only China's policy through one China and how we treat it. There is no debate over the seriousness of human rights violations in the Philippines. There is also no disagreement that Duterte's government is very bad and that he is a bad leader, evil people, as it were. Not that there's a difference, I hear a word out of it. Senator, on the benefits of free trade contracts in general. They promote conversation, business dealings, governments, citizens of such countries, not among the governments, although rulers make such agreements. That's the question. Hv. A senator wants to accept the free trade agreement after the people of the Philippines have freed themselves from their evil president. Regarding how exactly you can justify saying it's a business deal that's good for people, it's not the solution to their problems, but it's what you call a step. This is a step, along with following international rules of communicating with countries, no matter how bad they are. This is also true in the case of Russia, where certain business pressures have been placed on certain government officials and high officials, not on the general public in Russia, on the contrary. I'm asking why. A member of Congress how the people of the Philippines benefit from not accepting the agreement now but from getting rid of the government in the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u36	President. According to that argument, we should have made a free trade deal with Germany during Hitler's reign. This would likely have brought about good relations between the states and helped the people in Germany. Great. Shall we start getting ready for a free store deal with North Korea, perhaps? I think it's a great idea. It has been this way in Russia and Iraq and other countries where commerce have been forced to bite the very people, not those who sit at meats in those countries, but that's just the way it is. To try to say that making a vacation contract today brings special benefits to the people in the Philippines, it is a perfect hypocrisy, with all due respect, the president. I would say that now by making this vacation agreement, we are accepting the government in the Philippines. It's so simple. But I challenge the highest. Minister of State to start getting ready for a free trade deal with North Korea because it must provide a tremendous opportunity for the public in that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u37	Mr. President. I think it is important right now in view of the world situation to try to communicate with the government of North Korea and open up a conversation, thus creating relationships, whether it is business, education freedom, or what it is, especially in North Korea and elsewhere, in order to free from oppressive rulers of that state. That's what I'm thinking about it. I take my whole mind to challenge him. A senator to the highest. The secretary of state that the Icelandic government must strongly protest the violations of human rights that take place in the Philippines and in other countries, even in China, because of Tibet, where we have a free trade agreement, or human rights violations in Russia, where we want to deal with the Russian government, in an effort to promote normal conversation and international cooperation in behalf of human rights, peace, and the prosperity of the entire population. This leads me to the question, since we are dealing with free trade agreements: Is there a difference between the free trade agreements that bring benefits to certain citizens, can strengthen their economic status and their position to protect themselves from the domination of wicked governments? Counts 'em out. Even in the case of development aid, would a senator agree that the same view applies? Should Iceland cease development aid to countries where undesirable tyrants employ? Is that comparable or not? If this is not comparable, how is it not comparable?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u38	President. Comparing evolutionary cooperation with business agreements is, naturally, amazingly peculiar. I'm not even gonna answer that, that's ridiculous. What matters to me is that although you make a vacation contract and protest something, the protest has no effect, there are no consequences. Once we've made a vacation contract, there's no consequences. We'll work together for a purpose that means that there's an even greater fear of being heard if human rights are broken. This has proved to be repeated. I remember when Dalai Lama arrived in Iceland. Then there were very few who wanted to see him because the Chinese embassy and the Chinese authorities had threatened that if we met Dalai Lama, Icelandic rulers, members of Congress, and president of the Republic, we would certainly experience it. I knew that we had not yet a vacation shop contract, so we could do what we wanted. They were working hard on such a contract, and they wanted him so hard that they would not do anything, although the rulers of the country met the Great Prince of Peace. You've seen the trend all over the world that if there's a business agreement with a government that's under threat, there's going to be great interests, and the protests of the reign of terror will become weaker and the government will not promote itself. That's a fact. All you need to do is look around and look at news over the last few decades in order to give that argument to you. I'd like to reiterate this with regard to development cooperation that it is in no way comparable to business agreements. It's absurd to put these things together in this way. [[The president calls.]] It's like hooking up poor people in Iceland and people who're after a local asylum. It's not illogical.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u39	Mr. President. I've heard the evidence from the Generals that it is good for the public to bring in as much business as possible with a reign of terror and that it was in fact punishment for the inhabitants themselves by putting economic pressure on such terrors. Now I have friends in South Africa who would be quite surprised at these arguments, since the South African Apartheid government was cut down in the end and the Rosia government also by the state's joining forces in not dealing with such people; and not murderers like President Duterte. To make the deal clear when President Duterte makes his way into power is similar to if we had chosen Poll Pot's reign to start a trade with Cambodia because it would be such a perfect time. Now I've named Pol Pot. The name Hitler himself was Duterte when he was taking over, he compared himself with Hitler, saying: "If Hitler could kill three million Jews, I can kill three million criminals in my country. This is the thought behind his government. Now we've got what. Government officials also mentioned that it would be strange to classify kingdoms in good and bad governments. What's strange about that? Should we treat Denmark and North Korea the same? Of course, we are to organize kingdoms according to government standards. We do not classize Saudi Arabia with Sweden. We realize that there is an intrinsic difference. We have a moral responsibility to act as it should. I don't know how far we can go in condemning Duterte, a man who has said, for example, when an Australian missionary in the Philippines was arranged and grouped, that the worst was that he himself had not been brought along, the president. He said, when his daughter objected to them, and said that she herself was raped, because her daughter was a liar and a queen of drama. He has talked about killing reporters, saying that they have no right to be free from persecution or murder. He has personally admitted to killing three men with his own hands. He took a man, and brought him into a helicopter, and pushed him out of the helicopter. This is what he boasts. We are not talking about any controversial nationalist somewhere that some say is on the right and others are crazy. We're talking cold-blooded killers and his government. I would like to express my support to the hundreds of millions of people living in that terrible country. Among other things, I know of one man who was married to an Icelander who recently died. He was going to come to Europe and get out, but now he's stuck in the Philippines. So finally, Mr. President Mabuhay smells Pilipinas. - Long live the Philippines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u40	Mr. President. I'm a little obliged. I'd like to say, because I'm a deputy of the State Department, and I've been interested in these matters and in some ways studied them. There are dozens of countries in the world where there are human rights violations, discrepancies. When it comes to dealing with kingdoms, they are sensitive or rather complex - perhaps correct expressions. That is exactly why so many words have fallen in the hall today. Very unexpected. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. The minister of state has not necessarily expected this, that there would be a lot of discussion about a free trade deal with the Philippines, which is partly arrived before the president was appointed. But the discussion is classic. We have been faced with this, doing business with a government that is not acceptable, and we will have them for a long time. It is best to examine now and in the past and even consider the colorful history of Iceland on these topics. There are other countries in East Asia, such as Myanmar. What about business with Myanmar? There are severe persecutions against minorities. We have been in serious contact with the Earth's surface at Nikagua. It's got a broken pot. How would it have been with Chile Pinochets in his day? Would it have been possible to shorten his presence if the international community had responded differently during his time? I've been in western China in Xinjiang myself, and I've also been to Tibet. I know quite a few things about the violations of human rights there. Yeah, it's a vacation shop deal, that's a fact. I would probably have had to dig deep into my mind if I had been attending a council at that time, how I would have reacted to them. Would Franco's Spain have lived longer if the other Europeans had treated that state differently? What about Iceland's years of contracts with the old Soviet Union? We know a lot about them now and we knew a lot about them, but it was very important for the Icelandic economy to have very favorable contracts with the Soviet Union in its time. Of course, if we consider all of this, we do not have a clean year in this regard. We are now facing this vacation contract with the Philippines. I always wonder, " What are the business routes in a country like the Philippines? ' The President of the Philippines is not alone. Around him is a size group, we can call it a ruling class or a business connection or whatever. We have no guarantee that business, no matter how many hundred million people they may be silent, actually has another effect but simply to promote and strengthen the government that is there. Some claim that the 100 million Filipinos that live in much of the world's very poor, in some way, benefit or benefit from Icelandic commerce are mere words. It is very difficult to see through the fog, claiming that it is. Therefore, we need to look at this collectively and also look at this story that I was tracking from the rest of the countries and see when there is a need for financial pressure or the lack of a bargain, as mentioned earlier. A senator who was standing before me on the Apartheid government in South Africa. It is quite clear that one major factor in her fall was the pressures she was subjected to. It would probably be most successful if the international community, the EFTA, the European Union, assembled and put their finger clips on the Filipino government, the ruling class, let's call it what it is, political and business practices. Because it's food. There are dozens of countries that we have some kind of interaction with that are not okay. We try to appreciate it - I don't dare use the word cold - when it's necessary to postpone vacation contracts or not go to them, break a political relationship, or what it may be; depending on the means and why, this is food. In this case, I can't think of saying that these measures, i.e. A vacation contract or not, has a major impact. That's not good enough, that's what I said. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek. No, of course it's not enough. But if enough kingdoms get together and do what needs to be done, it will be effective. That's why I think it's right for us to set an example and go anywhere other than the other EFTA countries, to show that this little country, Iceland, has the right to say no, or say, "We'll postpone this deal." Because, of course, we're all in this room in favor of free trade agreements with the state of general. I don't think there's any doubt in the mind of very many in this room that accepting this vacation agreement now is the wrong step.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u41	Mr. President. I want to thank you. For a sincere speaker, he rightly stated that there are many things in which you discuss matters as widely as foreign policy and how you can benefit in the world. Which, then, is better, to sit at home and point the spears only to himself and let others care about their problems or to try to arouse light in countries that we believe need a little light? Isn't it worth it? Iceland's foreign policy has focused on the latter, that it is a better option to try to bring light to light by enlightenment, discussion, and open communication. Business is very important there. It's better for the public in countries that are under terror, that we all in this room disagree. I think it's honest. A senator expressed it as thinking that he would have been a member of the government who made a free trade deal with China and threw it down. Despite everyone's knowledge of the many human rights violations that took place there, such a vacation agreement was found to be a step in the right direction for information. Since it is food, as a senator rightly put it, I just want to ask: " What is the cause of trying? What would it charge if, even if it was only one company, and it could get only ten jobs that they would not otherwise have received, and they would be sustained by it, filled with a little more power, more enlightenment, strength in the countries that would need more strength in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u42	I appreciate the answer. This discussion is clear because foreign policy has not been discussed much at this council. That is why every opportunity is welcome. We'll use it. Business contracts are no light - ringed agreements. It depends on what business agreements are good for. That analysis is naturally extremely difficult, probably often impossible. Then maybe it's better not to take the chance, just leave it alone. We may well find ten people who get a job at some company because Iceland has a business deal with it, but it may also be that if we skip these business contracts, we can save 100 people because we set the example for the nations of the world to send a message to the Philippines. I don't think we can really answer that question by weighing ten people against a hundred or ten to ten. The key point is that while power groups, which always follow such tyrants as the Philippines president, have some authority in the country, we cannot guarantee that business agreements will do any good. Of course, we maintain a political relationship. We can have a conversation with a kingdom like this. We can scold them internationally and do all kinds of things. But thinking that business agreements are always good, I think I'm the focus of the clearance for this government. We have the story that shows that it isn't. If so, try to determine if this is really so in the case of the Philippines. I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u43	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I disagree with this view of business and the business agreements. This need not be surprising, given the general political calm of the why. A senator stands. I would believe that the free trade of the world, both within and between countries, has promoted individuals in those states rather than in the rest. The numbers show it anyway. Is it possible to ensure that governments in the Member State always use increased wealth and communication for the benefit of the government? No, you can't. But there is no guarantee either. I pause only at that point: It was the left government that made a vacation agreement with China and was very proud of it. What's on the ground differently now? The more the world shrinks to conversation, information, business, freedom, the better. And where do we draw the line? Will we settle countries that murder and kill and imprison without a state of justice? In many respects, we enjoy a wonderful Kingdom, and we are lucky in this regard. We can point to various kingdoms and nations, no doubt feeling sorry for those who need to be there. Where is our responsibility? Where do we draw the line? What, for example. with the United States of America with its death penalty? In spite of all our business dealings with the United States, we do not sign the death penalty. We can take virtually every Kingdom in the world and point to something that could be done better. We just have to talk loud and clear about our values, but we hope that they'll grow further and that business is an important part of it, that my knowledge is mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u44	Mr. President. I thank you again for the answer. For China, let's just do it right and clean. I was not at all involved, and I was not even part of the fine category that involved it. Probably I would have voted against it or sat by it. I'm just saying probably, I'm not going to go further into it for now because I don't have that deal in front of me. Of course, different lines are drawn in different locations. It's food. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. We're in contact with a state of so many things that have bridges, so I'm going to end up with a Danish, past, or emblazoned present or a situation that's not acceptable. That's why it's so. I might as well ask you why. Senator: Would she have wanted to go against the commercial pressure of South Africa? No, probably she wouldn't have. There were many kingdoms, and that was quite another matter. Now it is the Philippines, perhaps not important to us. But somehow the government's conduct is in that way, and I can mention some other example, the military government in Argentina at the time that threw people out of helicopters over the open sea. Sadly, so in international relations, we need to evaluate each case on an individual basis. We may well have to endure human rights violations in some country. We can only name Russia before business pressure came into play. If I try to look at this particular state and the circumstances there are, I'll find this conclusion, in contrast with the situation. A senator. That's where she's sitting and now she's sitting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u45	A respectable president. First, I thank you for an excellent discussion of such fundamental issues that are important to all of us. I don't think it's a simple matter, that there's a group of good people who want one thing and that others are bad people who want something else. We have shown that we have not opposed any form of commercial pressure. At the very least, the Independence Party, now in the government, has promoted the commercial pressure of Russia and has shown that free trade with no restrictions is no manger, no matter what. Other groups that have been represented in governments have been involved in various matters. This has been a good review of an example that is close to the discussion at the time of business pressure, for we have an example, black and white, that it worked: South Africa. It is only simple, no matter where we appear in the world, whether there or anywhere else, if we look back on our worldwide activities, we will find that they are active, that is just how they work. We'll talk here about the Philippines. It is not as if we were referring to some event from a distant past. We're talking about a president elected last year. 2016. It's not been a year. It was in June, that I suppose he went forth. We are wondering if within a year of Duterte's arrival, we are to award his behavior on a throne by validating a free trade with his state. I think it's very thought - provoking, and I don't think it's the way some people think it is. Senators have a bit in the shelter of, that it's just so simple, that free trade is always for everyone's good. But it's not like that. Otherwise, we didn't use the Russian embargos, did we? Otherwise, it would have been the highest. I'm sure the minister of state would present his protests at the latest. A government put business pressure on Russia, if he believes in his heart that as a free trade, there is always the right answer. That's why it's finally about us finding our own boundaries, like a whale. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson went over here okay. Where are the limits where we say, " No, it's too far away so we can just pretend it's not. ' As I went over the past, this is not just--now I'd like to drop, by the permission of the president, to say I'm sorry in the English sludge, I didn't find the Icelandic translation of this, but we're actually here talking about taking steps within a year after a new president took over in the Philippines. Who's the president? I don't think I have to say the highest. Secretary of state, what Duterte has done on the throne of power. I think he knows so well. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson and others did well here. I think it's interesting if we're going to prize this behavior, because that's how I see it. V.E.G. A minister of foreign affairs can tie his eyes in any way he likes, and he can disrespect me for the speech of other members of Congress. It doesn't affect me much. It's not that simple. We all have our own boundaries. V.E.G. The minister of state has shown his limits to Russia by supporting the government that imposed a ban on the government. I respect his opinion. I also respect his view of wanting to do this business deal, even though I don't think it's right. I think the idea behind the fact that more communication and business are for good is just good and beautiful. But I don't think it's absolute, does not always apply. I think if we went through history - some have been gathered here -- find each one of us one of the underboss of a state that we say about: No, to this man we wouldn't have written. There's been talk of Iceland's foreign policy, missing it. I agree with that. I think it's a bit of a poem on Iceland's mind over the years and decades, i.e. lack of independent foreign policy. We are often, if not usually, among some groups, often through NATO, in which we are still in poor health. We've been a ponytail with someone else instead of clearing the track and guiding the way. I believe that, we can call it a naive and simple vision, that a small country like Iceland can have an important role in world affairs, just because there's a small country and exactly because there's a small country like Iceland. Relatively isolated in the prom sea, not with your own army, but with the evil, he has invited foreign troops here. We could have independent foreign policy of humanity and peace. We could try to be the universal level of knowledge that the pillar of peace is to us capital citizens out here in Wey, on dark, cold winter nights, if we had a bone in our nose to be one. I don't think business with Iceland was of particular importance to Duterte, that they wouldn't understand whether he was in power or not. I don't think anybody out in the world is gonna raise bridges over the fact that this vacation contract would be established in Iceland. How, though, can a small, bare -armed girl, in which we now offer foreign weapons here, make her voice heard so that the following will be heard? What would be the strongest message that could have the most possible effect on showing the international community that Dutertes is not acceptable? I think that would be if this vacation agreement were not confirmed, if it were to spread around the world in Iceland, this small island in the north, it would now have made its own decision not to confirm this agreement. What is our objective in this contract? There's a lot of whisks out here. According to members of Parliament, he is apt to be employed. I don't know what Icelandic activities will follow this contract, which will create jobs there. I simply don't know that. But if our goals are also theirs, as some have. Government officials have talked about, that we are going to express our protests vigorously and try to influence government in that country, I think it is best if we simply say, "No, this is not the case. " Are we going to sit down and pretend it's nothing and sign a new vacation contract less than a year after this president came to power with all his truly terrible behaviours on his back - there are no speculations, saying, "Welcome to work, continue your work? I don't think we should be afraid to make our voice sound, not just in protests aside from some commercial agreements, but by the actions of ourselves. In the end, our blessed life revolves around being kind to one another. That's what we're at the highest. Secretary of State agree. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u46	A respectable president. The bargain is, by permission of the President, the nations: To justify his commitment to democracy, rights, human rights and freedom in accordance with his duties to national rights, including the United Nations Convention and the UN Declaration of Human Rights... This is the point. Right there. There's the line. If you cross her, we'll throw this away. The question is, shall we try to see if they will risk all that is wrong with the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and then stop the free trade, or should we check whether the human rights matters, the problems that are going on there today, will be solved before we try? Now it's a matter of a business contract with the remainder of the situation and then the business pressure. I'm not recommending business pressure. I'm not recommending a free trade deal on this basis of the deal and the circumstances that exist. Unchangeable conditions and anything else would definitely be intelligent, as if to promote our views of human rights violations as they have appeared to us, are utterly unacceptable, are not available until it is absolutely certain that they will not be performed because they would violate the agreement, and we have to cancel it. It doesn't have to be more complicated than that. I'm calling for us to sit around and try other ways before we take the step of finishing a vacation contract. There is nothing in him that will correct matters unless he is inclined to be made invalid immediately because human rights are now in violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members for the discussion, taking all encouragement to put our voice on human rights matters seriously and will continue to do so. I am the only U.S. secretary of state to address the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, and I don't know that he made polite remarks to killing illegally, I don't know that there was anything particularly polite. I must admit that I find some things that have been said in this discussion a little special. I understand that humans are in a position of government opposition, and they are to be criticized and held up by the government. I certainly did that when I was in a position of government. But I never thought to say that when the government of VG and the United States made a free trade deal with China, it was a prize of human rights violation or written down on them in that large country. I don't know what it is, and I don't think it's even occurred to anyone. This is not so that we are not going to do anything about it. We make our voice sound. True, I went over it here in return, so I repeat, that I took this case up in the Human Rights Council. Officials will follow it as well as in the international community. The United Nations is called peerism, and the Philippines is to be examined for reasons mentioned here. Now we can disagree on a few things. I just think it's the most natural thing in the world, and that's how we're gonna do it. But don't try to be any kind of a writer or agree to a gross violation of human rights, which was being done just fine earlier. At best, I think that's unfair. Then there are debates about what is the best way to achieve human rights in those countries. Let's be absolutely clear that this business agreement will not be important to Iceland's economic situation. If he becomes legalized, hopefully he will make it possible for some people in the Philippines to enjoy a better lifestyle and become more in a position to be promoted. You can review the story, evaluate what is right and what is wrong, what was wise, and what was unwise. This is certainly not true, for example. Developmental aid has helped tyrants to be in power, as well as humanitarian help and relief aid. All who have observed international affairs know that this discussion has been under way. We are to be effective at developing, but we are to do what we can to make sure that human rights are respected. I feel like it's hanging out. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppé mentioned business pressure against Russia. The communications of the Western powers were reserved to prevent the people in Russia from being exposed to them. That was the thought. For by reason of the inheritance of certain rich men, they were directed among them. They were grounded, and there were other things. However, the Russian business pressure is against us. It may now be that going that way is just an empty nonsense to the Western powers, but it was the only way to prevent the people in Russia from losing their jobs if the Russians could no longer move out, they would be beaten by what was an enormous issue against and protesting. I have indeed done so. Since we're talking about Russia, I have, for example. Talk about human rights, homosexual rights, and other things at my meetings with Russian rulers. I will continue to do that. They talk a lot about China here, and they also named the Soviet Union. We can wonder if things would be better in China if we had shut down when China opened up. Would the situation be better or worse in China if it had been done? Is it better or worse when it comes to a large middle class in China that it is more populous than the whole American nation that makes this intermediate group travel all over the world and meets, e.g. countries where human rights are far better? Is that better or worse? Does that have a good effect on government in that country? Are such ones more likely to change? I hope we will discuss human rights matters and how we Icelanders can use ourselves there. But we need to discuss them in this context. There were references to various tyrants. North Korea was mentioned in that regard. It is obvious that rulers there try to put their people in there and have as little contact with other countries as possible. They called the Soviet Union. It made it possible to tell people that the other side was much worse because they had not seen anything else or had been in any relationship and was also a poor economic factor. You don't have to put yourself in the North Korea business to see that that that's exactly what's done there. I do not comment on it, and I welcome it when I am encouraged to use myself in human affairs. I have, and will continue to do so at the short time I have been Minister. But I think, I'll be modest in choice of words, unreasonable when people present a problem like some of them. The senators did this before. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppé asks whether I like each other, but not particularly unless I said that we all agree to be good to one another, for the way it was discussed. The senator was. However, it was a small matter that is no part of the serious discussion we take here. A respectable president. We Icelanders are an example of a land that was very poor some 100 years ago. We were the poorest countries in Western Europe. We would still be poor if we did not have access to other markets and our markets were not open. The Western powers have been highly critical of closing their markets to poor countries. If there is a human rights issue, an equalizing between nations, an opportunity to give to poorer states, people must take this into account. If they think this is a major business benefit for Icelanders, they have no future interests. Of course, no one has claimed that there is some great business opportunity for Iceland. I bet somebody's doing it anyway. This also means increased communication between countries, people. I believe that there are some in the Philippines who would like to see other emphasis and respect for human rights and laws and regulations, and I would be surprised if they wanted to be supportive of their language, including. on a global level, and all means of support. In this case, we have spoken for human rights, both in the Philippines and elsewhere, and we will continue to do so. I don't think there are things that can be spoken of, that men can say otherwise here. Although I don't agree very well with a lot of people. In principle, when it comes to politics, I'm not going to start with that here to say that they don't feel the same way. I don't think it's fair if they say it's true about us who are here on the board. I hope so. The foreign feds have a good look at these matters. I hope we discuss the issues of human rights very carefully and how we can do well internationally. We are a few people, but we have a voice, and we can follow the lead with good example and surely speak up. That's what we're supposed to do. If the international community finds out that we are to use some form of commercial pressure, I think it is wise to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u48	A respectable president. Is this just a traditional political opposition, to be opposed? No, there was another politician, who is not here today at the council. This is a moral question, and it is huge in comparison with what we have in the Philippines. Now I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether we cannot achieve the goal of ensuring human rights in any other way than by delinquency of toll. The example I gave earlier on the terms of the agreement, the application of the terms of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, simply makes it a practice that as soon as we have an example, the deal is gone through the window. Why should we take that risk? I also ask: What language is really so unfair? A minister said that some senators have an unreasonable saying but would there be a minister to be more specific in their accusations so that members of Congress can answer to him? From the words of the minister, he might as well refer to my case; I don't know but would like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u49	A respectable president. Obviously, I haven't spoken clearly enough. I didn't say that the government's against me just to be opposed. I said it was perfectly normal and that it was the role of a government opposition to provide government support. It is the thought behind the arrangement we have. I'm not making any comments. I ask: When it comes to human rights, isn't it true that we agree in this room? Is anyone else saying anything else? Does anyone claim that when the holiday contract was made in the days of VG and the Syndicate, human rights violations were being written up in the respective countries? Is that what anybody's suggesting? I hope it isn't, and I trust it isn't. I like it. A senator makes this up in a special way. I was making reasons for what has been reasoned, like the cot. A senator knows very well, that with more communication and more business ventures, there is an increased likelihood that the values we stand for will spread around the world. This is not a very radical opinion and not a new one. I think that when we consider history, the general rule was that. I also think the general rule is that when people have economic better and have the opportunity to travel and explore other things and nations, if they live in such countries, they are much more likely to be ready to fight for the same things at home. That's my conviction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u50	A respectable president. Yes, the government's taking care of business, quality control. Secondly, the highest. The minister of the government opposition is against it, as it ought to be, to look after her, and to keep her in charge. On the other hand, the highest. Ministers of the case of some members of the council unfairly. That's what I'm cutting by and asking for further explanation, i.e. Any who may be able to defend their speech and show that they are not unreasonable. That was the inaccuracies of criticism that I was not sure if it applied to my speech or to anyone else. That is why I asked for further explanation. A question about whether we could achieve these goals, to ensure human rights, in any way other than toppling tolls, was not answered, so I repeat the question, since our values are, of course, spreading throughout the world with such agreements, definitely. But there must be agreements other than bargains in this situation. There are definitely circumstances in which a vacation agreement is obvious to achieve these goals, and there are situations, such as those in the Philippines today, where I think we have to use other methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u51	A respectable president. I don't know how much I'm supposed to go over this whole government thing; the government doesn't have to back, I never said. It is normal, however, that the government situation, as well as the government forces, should be maintained, that is perfectly normal. Regarding the unfairness: When a government, no matter who it is, approves of a free trade contract - for a very long time, such agreements have been made in good terms with all the states, China, and various other countries - politicians are not in any way accepting rights violations committed in that country. It's fair to say that it's unfair to say that. In case of a moment. A senator would go to Amnesty's Web site and agree with our free shops and other Western countries - I'm going why. Parliaments do not insist that everyone is asleep. Convention members of all federal councils who have approved such contracts have been signing violations of human rights in local countries, but they could be understood as roads. I'd like to take it that way, unless someone really thinks it's my statement that it's done, that we agree that we're not in that place. I don't remember anyone saying that if you strike customs, human rights will automatically be fixed. We were discussing this in a completely different context. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is well aware of this. In the six seconds I have, I will not repeat my first speech in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u52	Madam President. There are quite remarkable signs on the priorities of the independent group, the restoration and the bright future when it comes to human rights and emphasis on them internationally. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I don't know exactly which one at the highest. The minister of the State says that there is a prize of human rights violation here. It would be nice to get clear of that from the highest level. Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State why he stresses the validation of the holiday deal with the Philippines now while President Duterte is in power and whether he has considered waiting until the release is published in this case of terrible human rights violations and has occurred in less than one year. Has he seriously considered waiting on the contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u53	A respectable president. I think we've come to a place where we all agree that they are. Governments and senators who have adopted free trade agreements do not award, agree, or in any way accept violations of human rights that occur in our respective business countries. I believe we've come to a place where we don't have to discuss it anymore. I'm one of 63 senators, and I'm not going to finish any vacation contract. I'm glad to be encouraged to resort to human rights. I would have done so even if I had not been encouraged, but it is good to have the support to do so. I trust that support will remain. I went over exactly what is being done when it comes to the Philippines, at least twice. If there is anything we can do better, let us discuss it. Now it's a why. A foreign press committee that will handle this case, if we can finish the discussion here today, which is not likely to be the case. Let us use ourselves in the way we can in times of human rights but also be consistent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u54	Madam President. Thank you very much. The foreign minister's answer, though it was not clear whether he had considered waiting on the holiday contract as long as this happened in the Philippines. He says that he has done exactly what the Icelandic government will do to protest and call attention to human rights violations that take place in the Philippines. What he said earlier was that he was going to make our voice heard and that the officials of the State Department would promote the interests of Iceland there. Now I want to hear a little more accurately from my mouth. Secretary of State how he will make his voice heard about killings that take place by permission and by Duterte, president of the Philippines. When it comes to human rights violations in the Philippines, how exactly will State Department officials promote an international opinion of Iceland? I would love to receive clear answers this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u55	A respectable president. I'm going to try the third time to say the same thing as before and hope to do it. A senator is listening now. What's going on is a process I've been over twice. But I'll do it for the third time, I'm sure. It's not about men talking into the air, like I crossed over. They can say that this is not enough, but it is at least the arrangement that the international community has. I said it twice. For example, in the next round of the Council of Human Rights, which begins in Geneva at the beginning of May, the Philippines will be considered. It's not just Iceland, it's other countries that will follow those things behind. We will certainly do so there and in any other area that we consider important in the Philippines and in other nations. Then I also referred to what is in the contract, and so did I, and I have no idea that it was especially polite, when I condemned killing in the Philippines, that is what I did at the scene of the United Nations Human Rights Council. Hv. A senator - or I'm not going to have any comment on this, but the main thing is that we have and will try to see what we can to do about the Philippines and other nations where we know of violations of human rights. [[Up front.]] There's no direction change. It's good if you're good. The members of this hall agree that this is what we are to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u56	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill for the legislation on the change of land immunity law, economic history and land base, No. 41/1979, baseline and adjacent belts. The bill consists of two parts, one of which is founded on a so - called adjacent belt in the ocean, and on the other, the baseline points are measured from an up-to-date and more precise measurement of Iceland's landway. The adjacent belt is a surface of 33rd. the United Nations rights Convention, which runs from the outer limits of land immunity and up to 24 miles [24 km] from the bases of national immunity. Since Iceland has 12 miles of land cover, in our case, 12 miles of water is a wide second zone in the ocean following the weekend. In the middle of the belt, the Icelandic government under the bill will gain additional authority in several different languages as 33. the rights agreement states. In this way, governments can exercise the necessary authority, either to avoid violations of laws and regulations in customs, sheep, immigrants, or health matters on land or on land or on land, and to punish for violations of the above laws committed on land or land barriers. The bill on the recording of an adjacent belt and this source, according to Article 33. the agreement was previously concluded at 144, and 145th, but it was not completed. The bill that is now being moved here is suggested to validate authority according to 303.g. the right to the deal. It involves abduction of items that are archeological and historical nature of the ocean bottoms within the belt without the approval of the particular coastal state, which are considered to be a violation of land or land immunity of a law specific to 33 C.E. It shall be stated that the adjacent belt falls within Iceland's economic legal history, but the rights established by the state within the belt are different from the rights of economic law. For the baseline points, the treatment of previous primary sites of adjacent seat belt indications from Iceland's National Reservation that baseline points need to be updated as land weekend, economic law, and national bases are targeted, because the current points specified in Article 1. The law would have grown pretty old. More recent and precise measurements of them were available, and the National Guard felt the need to update the coordinates of the bases mentioned in Article 1. track No. 41/1979 on land cover, economic history and land base. In line with these indications, coordinates of these baseline points are updated at the end of the importance of delinquency of adjacent belt, economic history, and national base being as clear and accurate as possible. A respectable president. The bill is in the field of the core interest of Iceland. By recording an adjacent belt under the bill, the United Nations Sea rights Treaty provides coastal countries, and it is likely that Iceland is in effect. With the update of baseline points, it is being made to ensure that the areas of the ocean where Iceland has a jurisdiction are clear and firmly set, which is the natural obligation of every independent state, which is also fundamental in our relations with other countries in the marine field. Thus, the bill represents the common interests of all Icelanders, but it has no cost to the Icelandic State. I expect a solidarity to be achieved here at the Council on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a tobacco prevention law, No. 6/2002, with subsequent changes. The bill is intended to set the permissions for sale, marketing and consumption of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. The bill set up rules for monitoring the import, distribution and sale of electronic cigarettes and refill containers to ensure the market safety of the products. The bill is part of the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive 2014/0/EU on the coordination of legislation and Member States' legislation on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and folding of Directive 2001/7/EC. The change in tobacco protection laws proposed by this bill is now given the first permission for import, distribution and marketing of electronic cigarettes and refill containers here in Iceland. Over the past year, the use of electronic cigarettes has increased rapidly in this country, and it is urgent to establish clear laws about products such as these, sources associated with them, and monitoring that their safety is guaranteed. The tobacco defenses of the past few years, especially among young people, have been very successful and were guided by the main objective of this bill's work to support the rise in the use of tobacco in this country, especially among young people, as well as to prevent people from becoming addicted to nicotine. Electric cigarettes are relatively new to the market and lack long-term research that sheds light on the potential effects of their use. The World Health Organization has emphasized that countries set the same principles on electronic use as they apply to tobacco smoking until it has been established that there is no harm to the defense and that it takes into account much of the Agency's view. The bill suggests the setting of rules that will introduce the 20th paragraph. the above directives, specifically about the markings and packaging of the electric cigarettes and refill containers, on the prohibition of advertising electronic cigarettes and refill containers as well as on the permission of strengths in nicotine liquid, the size of refill containers, and the size of disposable tanks for electronic cigarettes. Then the bill states that the same rules will apply to restrictions on the use of electronic cigarettes, and to their demonstrations in stores and to the consumption and demonstrations of tobacco. In particular, according to the aforementioned directive, electric cigarettes can drive the path to nicotine addiction and eventually to traditional tobacco consumption, since they are closely imitate in smoking, and they produce normal forms of tobacco. The bill emphasizes the importance of ensuring that the consumption of electronic cigarettes is not made normal and is on the same way to achieve this target as it has been about tobacco. In addition, it was emphasized that the access of adults who want to use electronic cigarettes as destructive measures to stop or reduce tobacco consumption would be guaranteed, while trying to help keep young people from using nicotine in electric cigarettes. They suggest that there be a limit of age, administry, demonstrations and restrictions on publications for consumption at certain sites to achieve this objective. As a result of further support, the World Health Organization has noted that among countries that have already been successful in tobacco prevention and since the proportion of smokers has become relatively low, the use of electronic cigarettes will not result in a reduction in the burden of smoking. This view goes well with Iceland, where tobacco prevention has been successful in this country and with other Western countries, the daily proportion of people who smoke is low in Iceland. The bill is suggested after III. Section IV, please report to a new chapter of the law. A chapter that will deal with electrical cigarettes is expected to include five new articles in this section. It recommends the import, sale, or manufacture of electronic cigarettes and refill containers that do not comply with the laws or regulations established by these laws. Furthermore, when choosing goods, immigrants seek to import products that are considered safe and high - quality. At that time, the Nettos firm is appointed to employ electronic cigarettes and refill containers in accordance with the laws of the law and otherwise on the safety and public market security laws, as well as the laws on harmonization, as appropriate. The manufacturers and importers of the electronic cigarettes and refill containers they intend to place in the market in this country are ordered to inform the consumer clinic six months before the launching of the market and to be authorized by the secretary to set up a regulations for further implementation of reports to the Neighbours Office. A consumer agency is also authorized to charge a fee for notifications and is a consumer agency designed to publish on their website information about the members who have met the criteria of the announcement. There are also measures to ensure that manufacturers, immigrants and distributors take immediate action if there is any reason to believe that electric cigarettes and refill containers in their possession are not safe or not in high quality or otherwise not in accordance with law. Last law IV. section is suggested to prohibit the import, manufacture or sell refill containers containing certain supplements, specifically vitamin supplements or other substances that create the idea that the product will produce a healthy benefit, caffeine, tears or other additives and stimulating substances related to energy and vitality, colouring materials, substances that facilitate inhalation or uptake of nicotine, and substances with carcinogenic, mutagenic, or reproductive damage to the kind of food they are consumed. A respectable president. I have now explained the basics of the bill, but the changes presented here are public health issues that concern the general public. The primary goal is to protect young people and to prevent the incidence of smoking among them but also to resist the addiction of young nicotine to electric cigarettes. Research suggests that a high percentage of young people in this country used electrical cigarettes with nicotine and a rapid increase in consumption of this group. Most young people have never smoked when they first use electric cigarettes. The World Health Organization has particularly emphasized the negative effect nicotine has on the development of young people as well as on their effects on embryonic development. The Agency also stresses the negative effects of nicotine on the cardiovascular system, as well as that although nicotine is not a carcinogenic substance in its nature, it may contribute to the development of cancer in another way. The bill is designed to promote continued contractions of tobacco use, but it is also designed to keep young people from becoming addicted to nicotine by electronic cables. So I'm going to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd. and look forward to today's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u58	President. It has to be said to me that this bill, as it looks, I find it extremely boring to set laws about what is called electronic cigarettes but has been called electrical cigarettes, nebulisers, nebulisers, wavers, etc. I find it very sad that the law on electric cigarettes should be passed under tobacco protection. There are very many reasons why I will review my talk later, but I would like to ask the highest. Minister if he is an open source for changes to the bill in the case of the Generals, for it has been highly critical by a large number of sources and especially by consumers. That's why I want to go to the highest. Minister to whether he is ready to have an open mind about change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. As the bill was presented, published, and called for comments by the Ministry before being presented at the council, and received numerous comments. Of course, as always when you're measuring for primes at the council, you expect the bill to be treated for Congress. Part of it is the treatment of the Council Committee. You can say nothing more than that you are in nature, even if you recommend or contribute to a bill, open to the council to have something to say about it. Of course, it depends on what changes it would be on the bill whether they would affect my attitude. But I present the bill as I said in my speech for public health purposes as it does now and call for Congress treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u60	President. Some facts. Electric cigarettes are not tobacco. Electric cigarettes are not cigarettes. With these reasonings, we should technically call nicotine patch a tobacco patch, nicotine gum, and then pass it on to the same laws. I haven't seen any studies to show that smoking electric cigarettes is a factor in smoking cigarettes. I request, if there are any such research, to get information about it. Then I want less of the highest, too. Ministers say that virtually everything can lead to cancer, and one of the highly carcinogenicities is all the toxins that come over the city from Hellishe activation. Should it be banned? Is there a law against driving a car because someone's driving a car full? I think this bill is so custodyal that I don't have the right to see a senator and a lawyer from the Bright Future lay it out for the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u61	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. There is no prohibition on electrical cigarettes or nicotine fuel fuel fuel. On the contrary, they are being allowed, but they have not been allowed by Icelandic law. This is not a rule against adults taking the product, it's only being set on rules, there's rules on security, markings, etc. [[Up front.]] Here, for example, it may be merely trying to help young people and children get involved in the product, but as mentioned in my talk, the World Health Organization has pointed out that nicotine is harmful and may be harmful to children, as well as to increase the possible addiction of nicotine, which as the story teaches us can lead to the addiction and use of tobacco. The World Health Organization, the National Cancer Society of Iceland, and the Central Cancer Society of Reykjavík have recommended tobacco use. [[The president calls.]] In some cases, Norway's legislation, which is the induction of the European directive, also doing so, is a model here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u62	A respectable president. In 1st. This bill speaks of the goal of reducing health damage and death from tobacco, including tobacco. by helping to reduce tobacco consumption and to protect people from the effects of tobacco smoke. Six. Section 5. However, it is said that tobacco special shops, electric cigarettes, and refill containers, i.e. Customs that especially have tobacco, smoke, electronic cigarettes, and items related to them in the invitations, though they are permitted to be shown within this trade. There's one tobacco store in Iceland. That's 18 electronic squares. Is it not a matter of increasing the exhibit of tobacco for young people by asking these two things together?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u63	A respectable president. I don't see it coming. The law isn't exactly put out of a position at a store in Iceland or in Reykjavík right now. However, it is suggested that the same guidelines for exhibiting in public stores, i.e. at grocery stores, etc., such as tobacco, i.e. not allowed to have it visible. But just as tobacco law suggests, the same rules apply to special stores, i.e. not to be used in demonstrations. It's not, I'd like to mean, in my line of work as health ministers, and while we allow special tobacco products to be used in tobacco law, it's in the power of those who want to establish such stores how many of them are or where they are located for as long as they work within laws and regulations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u64	A respectable president. I understood from the minister that he agrees with me that maybe it's not a good idea to increase the level of tobacco, that that that's probably not the goal of the law. Wouldn't it be cool, though, to put a special set on electronic cigarettes, since these are separate things, and we don't want special shoppers with tobacco and electric cigarettes in the same place?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u65	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out the question. We have tobacco control laws that so far apply to tobacco that have the authority to run special business with tobacco. In itself, there is no change here by this product, i.e. electronic cigarettes and refill containers, fall under the law. National agencies are authorized in the name of commercial rights in Iceland and in direct contact with the EEA agreement as long as there are Icelandic laws and regulations. It may now be the key role of this law to set the rules on consumer protection, the protocols, the safety of the products, etc., markings. Under that condition, I believe we'll be in a better place than we're probably today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u66	A respectable president. At first, I was disappointed to see the bill, that we are still looking at the offer and limitations, forbidding, rather than the propagation, that a bill like this was presented to me about a tool that I did not consider to be harmful. So I decided to study the bill and read the report and to wonder what was so harmful to those electric cigarettes that I haven't been so famous myself. What is stated in the report, and I was quite surprised, is that the most harmful thing in these different angles is that this can lead to nicotine addiction. Are we, then, a respectable president, limiting and forbidding something because perhaps at some point it could possibly lead to someone possibly starting smoking?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u67	A respectable president. I would like to say again that the law is not presented to ban electronic cigarettes and refill containers but to open to conditions and license to use nicotine - related electrosurgent liquids. Similarly, the use of adults beyond the age - old level of nicotine is not under ban or limitation, but there is an added limit to young people. This is not limited to, and it shows up in the report, to prevent the incidence of nicotine abuse, i.e. trying to prevent someone from ever starting to smoke, but it is also trying to stop people from getting hooked on nicotine, which, as shown in the report, is potentially hazardous and has been shown to lead, among other things to cardiovascular events.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u68	A respectable president. Thanks for that. Then I wondered: " Does this minister feel that he is a moderate and normal bill in view of the little research available on the damages of electronic cigarettes? If this is a moderate measure, would it not also be a moderate use of fishing with a bomb?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u69	A respectable president. I believe this bill is presented in a moderate fashion. It is a foundation for the thought and presentation of the bill - i.e. consumer's end, limitation of the concentration of fluids, markings, security, etc. - which is part of a European induction that we will need to take into our laws, as the Norwegians do this summer. I think it's moderate. I reiterate what I said earlier that even though this is a relatively new product on market and research is limited, we have decades of experience with nicotine as a substance and how easy it is to get hooked on nicotine, a well - known fact. Nicotine is watched as an online product for the donation of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u70	A respectable president. Now I generally believe that people should be allowed to use the material they choose within the bounds of common sense, but it may be reasonable to set some rules there. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary further into the introduction here. This is certainly a European-based rule. I'd especially like to ask you two questions. In this Regulation it is specifically stated on the European Union website that it is reserved for the Gyne, the e-econte, which contains nicotine. I wondered if it's perfectly clear that it is, because the bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ This is a product that can be used for the consumption of nicotine containing steam with a mouthpiece, or any part of that product. I also ask if the bill and its burdensome aspect also include products that do not contain nicotine and whether we are going beyond the need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u71	A respectable president. The aim of the law is primarily to deal with nicotine - containing products. It is probably technically difficult to split our technology into two parts, since it is probably the same devices that are used to consume nicotine - based fluids and other liquids. The bill, however, includes the safety of the liquid, the concentration of nicotine mixture in the liquid; the part of the bill, of course, applies only to the liquid that contains nicotine. It may be expected that e.g. in Finland, where the law is considerably more strict, it includes We don't use flavors, but we don't go that far here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u72	A respectable president. This is most likely so that when it comes to the capsules, there may be other rules about where they are sold, which may be secondary. My main concern if I just put them directly, they are that today's greatest knowledge suggests that, despite all the goods, these products are considerably more beneficial than the products that are common today, which are usually cigarettes, so that even if nicotine consumption would increase, the overall effect could be positive. That is why I wondered and would like to ask a minister if it is not correctly understood that by various other rules, we would even equal the consumption of tobacco in this form or other forms, the prohibition of its consumption in certain places, we are not quite sure to go beyond the EU Regulation. If we choose to do so, could we decide to walk a little shorter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u73	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my talk, the bill is submitted to a public - health foundation. Recent research in Iceland shows that the incidence of electronic cigarettes and nicotine liquids is far beyond the incidence of smoking among young people in Iceland. That's a worry. There is concern that a considerable number of 16 - year - olds and young people in Iceland regularly consume electronic cigarettes with nicotine liquids without smoking or becoming addicted to nicotine through tobacco. It's really that thing, worrying about the incidence of nicotine addiction, that's what drives it. You know, about the second part of the question, right? It is certainly true that this is longer than the European directive, shorter than in some neighboring countries, but longer than in others. [[The president calls.]] That's our decision here in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u74	President. I make significant comments to this bill. It's going way too far and will cause us to fail to save as many lives as we already have been rescued by this technology that has been called electronic cigarettes in Iceland, e-cigarettes from abroad. I think that's exactly what I'm worried about. Minister, so that by always putting side by side with cigarettes and electric cigarettes, these two belong together, which they do not have. To show that Piratar and I are solution, we've written a bill on electric fags and related products that we hope to be used here at the Senate to guide the bill. A health minister to consider on a welfare committee. Since I didn't get my case on the program, I'm going to be so quick to read it here so that it exists in the Senate News and in comparison with the department bill. Minister. Pirats and I made this statement a while ago. Its chapter I says of goals and values: - Uh-huh. - The aim of these laws is to ensure full security using electronic equipment in this country and to support damaging measures to reduce the problem of tobacco use. 2.g. This type of electronic product is a product that can be used to consume steam, including the salt. capsule and tank as well as device without capsule or tank. Electrices may be for single use only or multidose with a refill container and tank or re-loadable with single-use capsules. A refill container has the layers of this refers to a container containing nicotine liquid that can be used to refill electric cigarettes. Section 3. Nicotine and nicotine - containing products fall under these laws. Il. section on sale and import: ◯4. par. So electric cigarettes and fill container must only be supplied for sale or distribution of the packaging as a warning of the misuse of the product. Section 5. To buy, sell, manufacture or manage liquids containing nicotine, a person should have reached 18 years of age. Fluids containing other substances that depend on the age limit according to other laws should be carried out in accordance with these laws. Section 6. It is not permitted to sell a refill container with nicotine liquid containing more nicotine than 36 mg/ml. A container containing more than 30 ml of liquid should be made of recycled glass and all refill containers should be provided until the procedures are safety. It is not permitted to sell capsules to fill in electric cigarettes with a larger volume than 15.2 ml. 7. Electrices, refill containers, and their product labels should be placed at places of sale that are not visible customers. However, the stores that only sell electric cigarettes and fill containers are permitted to fit the products in the store so that they are visible at the time of the store. Section 8. The secretary gives further regulations on markings, including warning texts and warning pictures, their size and their font. Manufacturers and/or seal makers of the generators and refill containers should be streamed by the costs of markings in accordance with this article. Count 9. All equipment associated with the consumption of nicotinic liquid as steam should be CE marked. All liquids must be sealed and maintained according to the regulations of the minister, cremation. 4 mg. 1 1. 10th par. Patients may be imported to their own use up to a maximum of 1.2 l of nicotine liquid per month, and nicotine concentrations may be maximum of 36 mg/ml. 1 1. Manufacturers and importers of the electronic network and refill containers that they intend to place in the market in this country must inform the NET about their activities no later than two weeks before the start of the operation. The secretary is authorized by regulations to set up additional requirements for announcements, including for what information should be included in the report, regarding the receipt of notifications and control and analysis of the information provided with an announcement. Neighbour is permitted to charge for receiving notifications that are covered by management costs with them. The secretary is authorized by Regulation to set in more detail the requirements for quality, safety, label and content of electronic equipment and refill containers. If manufacturers, immigrants or distributors on electronets or refill containers are concerned to warn those who are expected to marketing do not meet these laws or if they are harmful, they should immediately take the necessary actions to move the relevant product in accordance with these laws, including the following steps: to recall the product from the market, and to provide consumers' information on the front. The Minister will agree with the regulations for further monitoring of the consequences/adverse reactions of the use or consumption of nicotinic liquid. The manufacturer and the importer shall submit yearly information on the sale and consumption practices of generators and refill containers according to the regulations set by the Minister. Section 12. Carcinogenic, mutagenic, or reproductively damaged material (CMR) in non-vented form is prohibited in this country. It is permitted to collect fees from manufacturers and importers and refills for evaluating whether or not to use prohibited additives or flavours and the additional ingredients that increase, considerably or quantifiable, toxic or addictive effects or the CMR features of the product according to the legal requirements set by the secretary. 13th par. It is not permitted to import, sell, or manufacture electrical fags and refills that do not fulfill the laws or regulations established by them. 14th par. Special literature is required for the manufacture of nicotinic liquid for sale and distribution, including export. Permissions are issued by Food Institute. License should be provided for a one-year period and thereafter you can apply for a period of five years. A food - control agency is permitted, however, to collect a price for permission not to exceed 150,000. Food clinics monitor all productions of nicotine liquid. In III. the section on other precautions: 01:15. par. Those who are responsible for a child should contribute to a proper atmosphere. Section 16. A liquid containing nicotine of 5% of the import value should be taxed and the income of the price should be reduced to a battery study and for prophylaxis. 17th par. It is not permitted to advertise liquids containing nicotine. Advertising specifically directed to children is prohibited. 18th par. This law already comes into effect.◯ Now I'm going to read the report with this and hope to the highest. Ministers listen very carefully to: ▪ This bill suggests the use of a total battery of electric cigarettes and related products. Electric cigarettes are still in a somewhat gray area, and it is important to establish laws as early as possible so that trends can be followed in a responsible and clear way and that tests and health issues associated with them are always in the right direction. It requires a clear legal environment in order to work, and consumers have the right to exploit the damaging resources of electricity. The result of tobacco use is a major health problem. Each year, about 400 people are killed by tobacco in this country, and more than 17% of all deaths are attributed directly to tobacco use. The financial consequences of tobacco use are estimated to be 21 billion annual. beyond income based on report No. C03:04 as Iceland's High School of Economics in 2003, based on figures since 2000. This cost has increased, as is expected in the countries we compare with, e.g. Denmark and Norway The Norwegian Ministry of Health estimates that the cost of tobacco use in that country is about 80 billion Norwegian jars. or about 16 of you. Norwegian jar. per person. These figures show us how using electronic media could significantly strengthen the state's financial status. The bill is the answer to an uncooperative and harmful health minister who has been published for changes in tobacco protection law, where electricity is classified as comparable to tobacco. The bill that a minister intends to submit may result in a health and economic catastrophe and may result in the loss of a black market with products of this kind and can be remedied by the fact that such products are not ordinary or consumer products. Electric cigarettes are not tobacco. Instead, they are the means by which millions of people around the world are making use of tobacco. The consumption of tobacco has been shown to be greatly reduced along with the increased use of generators. If nicotine liquids are classed in the same way as tobacco, nicotine gum and other similar products would also need to be brought into the same category. To be consistent with other laws, all administrations would have to be reorganized and a lighter into tobacco protection laws and would have to be banned from sales of more than 10 ml of dams. It is important to distinguish between items and non-pyretic liquids from liquids containing nicotine. To classify lighters for tobacco protection laws would not be helpful. With the present law on the electricity use, there is no basis for healthy competition, where shops work in gray areas. A demand with a stable and well-being environment will be put at risk to strengthen the position of commerce with the product that falls under the bill. Health authorities should always take demeaning measures as such rejoicing and lay the groundwork for good cooperation with the common people. As with other products, all markings, warnings of vandalism and its contents should be visible and well-readed on the package. It is reasonable to note that producers and sellers are involved in the cost of marking whatever products they may be. For import, in the bill, the requirement for CE labels to be given to a particular category and for the type of plunger is required. If not, keep a warning on arrival. The new employment opportunities this industry has to look forward to, not only to sales of certain products, but also to production, especially by liquids. In industry there is a high level of production on electrical grids, and there is a potential for major export revenues. In Iceland there are ideal conditions for producing liquids, especially exports. The legal bill for changes in tobacco defense laws discusses additives, such as caffeine and vitamins. Transporters believe that it is normal to forbid such additives beyond existing laws, e.g. to drink energy. Most would agree that nicotine concentrations are limited to electrical fluids and are guided by safety measures. However, the minister intends to suggest that it be limited to 20 mg/ml here, to a moderate concentration of 36 mg/ml, especially in the view that there is always a safety device that prevents access, e.g. children and animals to the product. This is suggested in the bill to allow the size limit of the liquid containers to cover all containers of 30 ml in recycled containers, but to cover all the smaller doses of liquid only in a plastic container. Because of safety measures on the shell and the allowed concentration of nicotine in liquid, it is not necessary to limit the size of containers further. If these size requirements are not considered good, it would be appropriate to limit the size of the package for a dam to the same size as the result according to the bill. The required size of a tank should depend on 15.2 ml and should not be further restricted to the authorised concentration of nicotine in the liquid. Transporters believe that the product will be taxed at 5% of the import value and will earn its income for electronic research and for prevention of tobacco use. However, other products related to electronic products are not taxed. To see that video games are not taxed according to the cost of computer addiction, a search to the nearest electronic store is no longer necessary. Scientists don't all agree on the damage done by electric companies, but most people think that, including the U.S.A. The British Ministry of Health says they're at least 95% Risk to tobacco. There may be reason to take a careful step to the earth, keeping in mind the health and economic benefits that this technology brings to us. It is important that consumers are able to buy their own liquids outside, and the current rules for 100 ml are far from normal. Transporters believe that 1.2 L per month is an appropriate amount. This does not lead to natural competition if Icelandic shops have the exclusive right to liquid sale. The above limits are restricted to nicotinic fluid, but in other substances e.g. caffeine or vitamins, follow the rules for limiting concentrations according to millilitres. Transporters suggest that nicotine liquid advertising is prohibited, while other equipment and liquids should not follow the same rules. It is also stated in the bill that advertisements should not be directed to young people. This category of products should not be visible in stores except in special trades with nicotine and related products. According to the bill, a person can only sell, buy, or manage nicotine if he is 18 years old. Now I suggest that this saying, which is of the Pormisans, be it written from the top of the head. When considering this matter, a deputy of Pirata, Sara Óskarsdóttir, would be used to consider the matter. appropriate committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u75	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister on bill what we're talking about right now, and thank you for the offer. I think everybody agrees that there's a frame around this new phenomenon in our society that I choose to call an electricette, and that's what it takes. paritaprevir In this regard, Birgitta Jónsdóttir says that there is much misleading about cigarettes. But that means I have to admit, the highest. Minister, to the praise is as good as done. I was very disappointed that I read this bill and think that we may be missing out here on a very remarkable opportunity to keep smoking and reduce the number of diseases, deaths, and everything we know to follow them. I thought a little bit about why it would be to take the steps that are chosen to take with this bill, where cigarettes and electric cigarettes are actually placed in a simple fashion, that anything that applies to cigarettes is really appropriate, and if you allow yourself not to speak very gentlemanly; that the case is dead. I think it's a big sin, and I don't quite understand why that approach was taken on this matter. I'm not going to tell anyone not to want a good job or not to do a good job, but I admit that the following thoughts concern me: What is the reason why you don't try to be a little better at creating a special frame about the things electronics are? Is that some kind of lack of ambition? A train? I don't think so, and I won't tell anyone about it. But I don't know why this way is gone. I was also wondering if this is what we sometimes see in the political debate now, especially everything that concerns human health, in which we live in a world that is better informed about the various subjects that are around us all day long and that could cause us harm, which is well - known. But has the political debate become a bit afraid of that discussion? Is it really more comfortable and more secure if you stay in a safe and secure area where no politician can be blamed for not providing any danger? It makes a particular conflict of my knowledge. I think we'll fall into the trap more and more, that it's easier to ban and not have to discuss it anymore. There may be something dangerous about something, and it is easier to be a politician who forbids it just instead of trying to look at the problem and discuss it as it is and tackled it according to what the problem might look like. I understand and I understand that this comes in from Brussels. There's a smell of this bill that we don't have much to say, in fact, it's the least comments I make, the minimal rules on meaning, and the things that are natural. But there are other factors, both in the bill and in the report. I agree with them. Councilmen who spoke before me asking questions and criticized certain paradoxs, such as. in the paper and the law itself, where it is said that the law is intended to prevent tobacco smoking, but there is nothing that more people will choose to use the electronics to stop smoking. It's just put in the same place. It must also be said that the logic of what is dangerous is at best critical. We have seen in the discussion on this matter over the past few months that all the smells of evil can be taken away and reasoned, as has been shown in the articles of doctors here and abroad. I'm not going to stick to that part of the situation anymore, right now. The case is yet to appear during conquistancy. There will likely be reviews where it is addressed. Away from that, despite the fact that it can be reasoned on as much damage as it does, I think everyone agrees that it is not 100% harmless. I don't think anyone's saying that. In fact, I think that almost nothing under the sun, unless perhaps the blessed water, is 100% harmless. Then I'll come back to it with how the political debates will develop along with this enlightenment. Of course, we know much more about why we are at risk. That's good. But what position does that put us in? If you let yourself think about a lot of things in our fine society, which we know is dangerous but has become part of society, you probably wouldn't allow it to happen now, for example. Like trusting other people to drive a car. It is, in fact, an amazingly interesting community decision if you allow yourself to dig deep into it. And here I'm not talking that since we let something in the community, everything should be allowed. Of course, we'll bet we know more today than yesterday. But in this matter, it's a little interesting that it's not like we're discussing whether or not something like that. Even harmful cigarettes should be allowed to sell with the same restrictions as cigarettes. We're talking about a product that's at least a product, about what I've read about, 95% less harmful than cigarettes and helps people stop smoking cigarettes, which are dangerous. We are not even in the position to discuss whether we should allow something else to happen. We will discuss whether to make it easier for these products to be used, which is so much better than cigarettes, although it is not perfect rather than anything else. That's where I find the sense of ambition in the bill. We should be able to create a frame that covers this product with all its advantages and flaws, not cigarettes. These products and cigarettes have two things in common: nicotine and some kind of exhaust. Almost nothing more. As has been noted in the past regarding nicotine gum and other: If there was something completely different from blowing up smoke, would this conversation be completely different? Definitely. What, then, are we talking about? Are we talking about a similar use of electric cigarettes that justifies all the rules we set here and that the government has comparable rules, even though we know that electricity is a much better spare product that will likely save lives? That's where I think we're missing out on a wonderful opportunity. This is the first time in our time where we can choose whether we're going to watch this one percent that could be bad for electric cigarettes, which is probably just like everything, and we're not going to do anything to keep smoking, which we know everything about what is dangerous. Or are we afraid to create a new frame and meet a new world? I want a little bit of that for us to do that. And I think we can. I think that we should be open to that fact in the upcoming contingency of not missing out on that occasion. I've only talked about the harm to the eater. So, of course, it is the other, the rights of those affected by the consumption of others, i.e. It's basically a wave, or something like that. Then there is a conflict of research that we may consider in the church treatment of the matter. I'm not going to doubt it, from the point of view that there is not much harm to this vapor of water, but we're going to give it a little bit. Do we argue that it can cause discomfort? Let us assume that it is not so dangerous, no matter what happens to us in our environment on the street and everywhere, but it is uncomfortable. I'm not going to belittle it. Being uncomfortable is very uncomfortable. That's what it says. That's for sure to be taken into consideration. It may sound kind of sassy, but a lot of things in human society are uncomfortable. There are all kinds of things that make you uncomfortable. People do all kinds of things that make you uncomfortable. I'm thinking about it. Why do we not try to face this discomfort of others more than the central control side and open it up, for example. that rural society can decide how they want it to be? I don't talk about owners of some kind, like. It's up to coffee shops to do this for themselves. Why don't we try to open up to the fact that we're just letting go of all the possible human behavior that might irritate other people and just trust others to make their decisions? I'd like that in the end, because it's interesting to me in this matter and so many others, to talk about public space. Do we really think that we have to make rules about all major human relationships and all human environments because we do not trust people to consider one another? Are we just done with that? Have we stopped assuming that it's possible to sit in a coffee shop and say: "I'm sorry, buddy, I'm uncomfortable. Would you mind letting it go? We won't even talk about it. Let us not even expect people to show consideration for one another, to be free to talk to one another, and to make their own rules. We think we have to make all these rules for it. It's an overwhelming sin. To say that I think that we can be more ambitious about these rules, better to keep a wise grip on this new phenomenon that could possibly be the most wonderful health issues we've seen for a very long time, if we just do it out of reason and a little trust and consideration. I think we can do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u76	A respectable president. I realize it's probably unorthodox to give an answer in this sort of conversation. Yet, I wanted to hear a little bit of it. A senator following her talk claiming that here we may be missing a very important opportunity when it comes to a less destructive technology to reduce smoking. As noted in the discussion, research is limited, and this is a relatively new technology that is still under investigation. But this is quite clear from the tests we already have, including in Iceland, using electronic cigarettes is considerably higher than using tobacco, i.e. that's a very high ratio using electrical cigarettes. For young people in Iceland, 14% has been measured as long as only 2% of youths smoke tobacco. The purpose of the bill is especially to try to prevent the incidence, to get hooked on nicotine, a known drug that causes addiction. This is a much more smoother route than tobacco. It's, for example. Reports related to the Netostry but not bound to distribution through the state alcohol and tobacco trade. I wanted in this context to go inside. A senator will determine whether she will not agree with a minister on the importance of having security rules and especially looking out from public health reasons on the effects of her product when it comes to eating young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u77	Madam President. I thank you for the honor, to get an answer from the highest. Ministers, and kindly and obligated to answer him. When I spoke of missing out on a wonderful opportunity to prevent smoking, I was primarily leaving those who smoke cigarettes already. So I'm referring to a relatively small point, I can give myself, general behavior, general pattern, that you don't give up something you like better if you don't get a carrot instead. You can assume that the flavor of diet coke is worse than the taste of plain coke, but let it be done occasionally when you're trying to contain sugar. It would be unlikely that you would drink diet Cokes if you were exposed to sugar. I was referring to this, for example. Public space and how we approach these products. If it's to be the exact same obligation to have an electric cigarette and a cigarette, the urge to stop smoking may be less. That's what I was referring to. Of course, I agree with a minister that all years of effort should be made to cope with smoking. Based on my research, and we're not arguing about research here, there's very limited evidence to prove that you're going to go from battery to cigarette. If we possibly have the worst possible problem, smoking youths disappears, but any part of them regularly use an electric cigarette with nicotine - it's possible, it's not perfect, but isn't better?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u78	Madam President. I appreciate your answer to an answer. Of course, I would say it's better for people to use nicotine through electric cigarettes than tobacco, this usual way. But like a dog. A member of the body developed this new technology, and research is limited beyond the fact that the World Health Organization recommends the setting of rules and tried to support the incidence of nicotine consumption through public health reasons because nicotine is a known drug for addiction and encourages regular consumption during nicotine intake, including nicotine. through tobacco and not only smoke but also, which is a great public health problem, especially in the North and other neighboring countries, through the mouth and nose. I think that's a basic public interest in putting this bill up to try to cope with the incidence of nicotine addiction, especially in young people. Then I'd like to say that the bill is really about allowing nicotine liquid to be used in electronic cigarettes that are not allowed today. A less moderate environment is being established on tobacco, which should help to reduce the misuse of the drug for those who wish to use it to stop smoking. But the answer was basically this, asking why. A senator would not agree with the importance of having rules and regulations about nicotine use in any form and also be concerned about incidences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u79	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this. Yes, I can worry about that. But I shall also be completely honest that I believe that the youth of the country is gradually taking more steps in the right direction. I think it's all one step in spite of all that, since we haven't seen all the other moaning around our young people, which we better not see today. There, many come to praise and praise. However, there is something about the discussion that might be a bit dangerous to claim, the tests, and the claims of what selected them. I think it's right to remind you what you're saying. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks, as he made note that the bill seemed to take only nicotine liquid. There is also liquid that does not have nicotine. So, are we talking about how they could be electricized, holding them to youths? Could it be something we could extend them back, so to speak? I'm primarily talking about how we face reality as methodical and unbiased as possible so that we do not miss the possibility of being able to replace cigarettes in society with the future. The benefits of both the community and every individual do not have to be reasoned with. I agree, as I started my speech at the beginning, that all the forces and markings and security frames are self-signed. I'm glad you're here. Other than that, I think we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u80	A respectable president. It will do no less than two Propés to counter this fine speech. I liked it. A lot of things made me wonder. I'm just gonna let myself have a word with a senator about her ideas on this. Hv. A senator entered the public room and the rules that are put into common tobacco use in this product. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. She concluded that it would even be placed in the hands of a local partner or the owners of a public space. But count 'em why. A senator or any need to limit the use of electric cigarettes? So I'd like to ask you what. A senator in charge of advertising and marketing, that it is forbidden to advertise and have visible markets, except special stores. Then I'd like to ask. The senator's comments on what I've heard about a lot of people, worries that this will make less use of this product to stop smoking. Counts 'em out. A senator monopolize that if the bill remain unchanged in law, fewer people will use this tool to try to stop smoking tobacco?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u81	Madam President. Thank you. Kolbini Óttarsson Proppér, the other Propappé, for his answer. That was a few questions. I think I got most of them, or else it's time. A senator just raised up and shamed me. For the public space, whether I think there is a need for some kind of fence or frame around it, the answer is yes. I believe, however, that the approach to that job could result in greater freedom, greater self - determination rights, greater consideration, and less media control. I think it is possible to find out some kind of frame that takes care of all of this without the state's validation in its rules. Hv. A senator mentioned the advertisements. I think maybe your mind went somewhere else, and there was no question. [[Up front.]] He'll just come back and repeat it. Then asked him why. A senator would finally think that fewer people would use this opportunity and stop smoking if the bill that is available today would be accepted. I believe it is. I believe that the bill is now not enough carrots in return. It's not that much fun to make it worth it. Then I think it's how much man gets kicked out of the street that has a lot to say. I think it's a very important thing. Being able to achieve some kind of conversation about how to make it possible for other people to do this is a very important part of the switch of current smokers. Of course, I realize that in the large context of the section, the young people are the future and, to some extent, the focus is there. But to answer that question, I think the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. The question of course. A senator failed to recover from me simply: What is her attitude toward the law of the bill that attracts advertising and marketing, i.e. Do you want to avoid advertising or being visible, except for special stores? Hv. A senator came at the end of his answer to the young people. That's exactly what I'd like to ask. I don't think anyone would disagree, because that's what needs to be considered, and that there's an awful number of other young people starting to use the product, so I'll let me try to stop speaking stocking. We all agree that this should be taken into consideration. Counts 'em out. A senator to a simple curfew, i.e. The height of age, is it sufficient to resist it? I can't wait to hear the answers. Senator. Hv. A senator made me think a little different. But after another opposition from her, I intend to step out of this hall and out of this house and into the public space, both because I am lawbound and also because I show consideration for those around me. [[For example, are you going to smoke?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. As for advertising, I've not been able to distinguish it in this bill, since I've had so many other things first. Of course, that remains at work. My first reaction to it is similar. It needs to be faced. If we're going to go into the pit, that I think, to put a big match between this and the cigarettes, it's a sin. However, this is not a harmless warning. All the presentation and presentation and discussion of it and demonstrations and approach need to be consistent. I think it's some kind of interstate you can find out which is appropriate for this product. But it is a challenge. We do not have many examples in front of us as to whether this one is going to smell it or the other. Rather, we need to find it out. It's a project and it's the same with advertising and everything else in my opinion. About the age limit. No, we may have seen that age limits alone do not perform miracles, but it is an important part of sending a message about what is desirable for us in our society to young people. I was one of those who worked for the peer education in her early years, and I want to avoid being completely preconceived and debrided, down to the point of being the most important thing to youths.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u84	Madam President. These are interesting discussions about billing to legalize tobacco protection laws, electrical cigarettes. I'm going to say I'm happy with this bill, it looks like at least When reading the first thing that I can, in principle, agree, especially from prehumanism and public health and other things that I might have wanted to do more in the Senate Hall than I would have had opportunity to do. You see, during the discussion, I felt that it looked a little bit like you were putting on a ban and that people in general talk so that they would just be excommunicated or, rather, taken over by people that opportunity, for example. smoking cessation It's not like that at all. I'm glad because I think it's a golden opportunity for a lot of people to quit smoking tobacco. It was interesting to me what happened here, that it was as if people were missing the opportunity to quit smoking if rules were to be stated in any way other than under tobacco laws. I don't quite see how it makes sense. I've been watching, for example. on Youtube's videos of people who have taken advantage of this to stop smoking and tell about their experience, are in fact saying that they are the '70s' of people. All these people describe better health after various periods of smoking and over a period of time using electronic cigarettes. In fact, there was one woman who said that she did not make the effort to get electronic cigarettes and items and other things that she has had to do. Let us see that this is not available in the same way as it is. A tobacco all over the country, so we'll put it in some context. Though there are shops in the capital area that sell this product, it is not so much around the country that people have bought it on the Internet and elsewhere. These were quite a number of individuals, and none of them said that they had made it a point to make a living. Also, they did not say that it was hard not to use electric cigarettes elsewhere, but it would have been an opportunity to smoke all the years that had passed. I've thought it might be the theme of today's discussion that it's really hard not to use electric cigarettes all over the ground. It was interesting to me that people's attitude described their experience, at least it came to me. not to say that this is a concern in general. I'd like to read a little bit from the online entry of one who, after more than 20 years of smoking and making many failed attempts to quit, decided our last spring to hit the generators. The year has passed, and after smoking has been stopped, the desire has not been present for cigarettes. He could also soon be around people who smoked without any discomfort. The physical condition has improved, and all these people I was witnessing earlier also developed. This person, of course, is using electric cigarettes as they were originally intended, i.e. to help people quit smoking. I know some of the people who have gone along that way and used batteries for that purpose, and they're doing pretty well. I think, in view of the fact that we've been discussing that we don't have many research and they don't seem to have something to do with it, it's interesting for us as a little nation to see how many people have already stopped smoking tobacco in this way. Of course, all such issues are supported if we have such information, as well as prevention, and so much of it is important to have a misunderstanding. So there must always be goals for smokers who are trying to stop smoking by such a means of putting the battery on the shelf. At least I'd think it would be. No doubt we are familiar with people who have chewed nicotine for decades and who are having a bad habit of getting used to it. But I do know examples of people who have come very close to being without tobacco, so there is a little left to the question of having something in their hands. I think it's good. There may be concerns, so everyone does not use electronic cigarettes for this purpose. I know an example of a young woman, in her late 30's, never smoking, only because it was available. When I told her why she had started doing this, she couldn't really answer that. There's this new gang, and I'm sorry. I'm talking about a young woman who's always opposed tobacco but has been sucked into it because there's no danger or there's no experience, that there's no danger. I want at least Don't take the chance. This was just about the fact that if this wasn't a strict rule, we'd be taking a risk. I think that's it. I'm not ready to take that chance with our young people or others, they're not just the youngest, they're more of them, but that's, of course, the high risk I'm concerned about, considering how well we've done in the tobacco defenses. Whether this is the case, people who don't already smoke but start using electrical cigarettes will go over to something else should not be said. As mentioned above, there may not be enough research to prove that it is, but it is as if I do not say I want to take a risk. It's a question of whether we're moving, for example. to increase the price of something specific or something. I don't think that's necessarily wise. Then we could be working against the goal we want to achieve, i.e. getting more people to take advantage of this in order to quit using tobacco and to benefit greatly from it. If it's not the meaning, I think that anything else here can please me, i.e. that there would be a barrier between these rules and the advertisements, that would be marked in the way suggested here, to the age limit, and to more and at least to the age limit. during the first reading, I feel that this is rather positive. There may not have been much talk about the education, but I haven't read the bill yet, but I've been through it. I don't know if I've missed it, but in tobacco law there are educational regulations to reduce the use of cigarettes, and I wondered if it's intended in this regard, to do so in a manner comparable to whether it needs to be done. This may be indicated in the implementation of the Commission on this matter if this is desirable. The report quotes other countries as well as the World Health Organization (WHO), and it quotes the cancer community and various other groups that I have so far taken into account when discussing other subjects. I see no reason other than to do the same now. What I asked myself was that when I read this, because it's a consumer lab that's supposed to be a marketing watch, sales, and so on, it's health care of tobacco use and all, whether it's the same rules for the people selling tobacco. This site is authorized to charge a fee for receiving notifications as soon as it is put on the website information about parties who have met the criteria of the announcement. I wondered if the same value applies to those who sell tobacco, i.e. This warrant. I also like to see this new section forbids import, manufacture and sell refill containers containing some supplements, which are then vitamins or other factors that create the idea that the product will bring health benefits. This is caffeine, tears, and other additives and stimulating substances related to energy and vitality, coloring materials, facilitate inhalations, etc. and substances with carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductive toxicity. Of course, this is just a fall, if allowed, to promote the notion that it is harmless or harmless. I think it's only good that it can't be authorized. I was advised to study earlier from the University of California, California, the center of education, and tobacco research, which shows that at first glance the use of electronic cigarettes, especially when used with tobacco, increases the risk of heart attacks. Of course, there are studies in these words about electric cigarettes. Perhaps it is new to be in so much use as it is now. There was something else that I was going to close my talk with, what is stated at the end of the talk on the question of the effect. It is said that this cost for the state funds of the first year and then for the 11 million each year. This does not directly show what it means except for the cost of a consumer lab to follow up on and work with the announcements and so on. It would be interesting to find answers to those costs. I think it looks fine. It's a restricted sale. I don't feel that this is a way to make it more freer than anything, and in the work being done here, and in the concluding words, it's the way that ensures those who want to stop smoking the opportunity to use electric cigarettes, the availability of whatever is needed, but it's an attempt to get out of the way. There's something I can't help but agree. It is interesting to read carefully on explanation of Article 5. reviewing what the World Health Organization says that in countries with high rates of success in tobacco prevention, electricity use will not result in the reduction of much of the burden of smoking. This is one of the things that research might reveal, which I'm not convinced that I've actually seen yet, but I hope we're going to find out, because I think that in the next few years, there must be a lot of research to be done on this use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u85	Mr. President. You're right. One senator says that we should make it difficult for young people to become addicted to addictive substances. But it's working, as it were, in both directions. We're supposed to think this over a little bit. We should also view this as some kind of way to get out of cigarettes to something less destructive. With the permission of a president, I will witness to a study of the American high school program, National Youth Tobacco Survey. It revealed that in 2011 15% of high school students smoked cigarettes, while 0.3% smoked electric cigarettes. More than three years later, 4% of high school students smoked cigarettes, while 8% smoked electric cigarettes. The overall outcome, then, is to be considered because according to what you have heard, electric cigarettes are not as dangerous as cigarettes, though they are certainly not safe. Cigarette smoking is one of the most dangerous threats to our health, so we must keep that in mind too. We must not make it difficult for people to look for a solution when they stop smoking. Of course, it is important to create some kind of frame around it, all agree on it. All of us oppose the increased number of youths who start smoking, but we need to think further and take these factors into consideration too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u86	Mr. President. I can totally agree with the senator that we may need to think this way. That's exactly what I said, here's a chance to get people out of cigarettes to electric cigarettes. I think it's good, if you can say so, that people who really want to stop smoking use that option. However, their concern is that those who add electronic cigarettes, such as those from a U.S. study to which I quoted, say that they add, e.g. stress of the heart and such. We're going to think about this for a long time by allowing the use of generators, but with some limitations. I don't really feel that there's any evidence that electric cigarettes can be just like any other consumer product, any more than I've looked at burning wine in a camp as one of the other consumer products. I actually agree with the World Health Organization where this is specifically stated. It is also okay to give a witness to what is stated on the bill, by permission of a president: The World Health Organization further states in its discussion on electric cigarettes and refill containers that there is a significant increase in the reported cases of nicotine poisoning in individuals, and there is evidence that the Agency is responsible for much of the increase in nicotinic fluid intake in electric cigarettes. Although electric cigarettes are clearly a better option, I believe they're a better option, we can't believe they're harmless. That's why I think the goal is to stop the liquid from being the same as this, and to get in the discussion that it's better than cigarette smoking, but we should encourage them to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u87	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear that me and what. The senator agrees largely, and I think most of the people in this chamber agree mostly, at least on the importance of having some frame around it. If we agree that it's better, it's not safe, why can't we just stick to having some frame that doesn't go as far as with cigarettes? In a sense, these are the same substances. I wondered, " How important is this aspect of the discussion, considering how many people become addicted to addictive substances, how many are able to go from cigarettes to electronic cigarettes? ' Of course, that matters too. Therefore, I feel that there is insufficient evidence to support nearly the same type of cigarette smoking. I suggest, rather, we try to work on the basics that we all agree on, and we don't carry it all the way by agreeing that the electronics are just like cigarette smoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u88	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. So we agree on some aspect of the use of electronic cigarettes. Hv. A senator says: "Why can't we agree with each other all the way? That may be what divides us in various ways - that we do not agree with each other. I witnessed to people who have been using electric cigarettes to stop smoking. There are people of all ages, young and grown - ups, who, first of all, have not put themselves in a position to have much more to do with them than I think this bill is. In fact, I think it's an extra bioavailability. First, this is being done legally, and secondly, there is an increase in access to this product that is not present today. You can't buy electronic cigarettes in the country anyway. The bioavailability is being increased. The people who use this to quit, at least for what I've been talking to, do not complain that they can't use any form of electronic equipment anywhere. There is no need to seek them for any specific means, etc. If we're going to watch the state's public health policy, if we're going to watch the state's preemptive policy, it's in its spirit, but even a little free. We should not encourage this use, but there are certain educations around tobacco prevention. Why don't we ask ourselves, " Why don't we just add some kind of instruction about this?'Because I didn't see it in the law? ' I may have missed some kind of education. It may be to point out that this option is better than the other one. I think the committee needs to consider when she gets the case. Then there may be a variety of comments on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u89	Mr. President. I haven't really studied the bill yet, hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is all for it, but maybe she wants it a little harder. I heard the senator's countermand that access will increase to the product, but it somehow puts a better frame around it. If this goes into the tobacco defence, if I understand it correctly, they won't be able to use the product because they hear the same rules in this matter. What I most cut off during the senator's speech was that the senator likes this in terms of the damage. She says that it is a destructive tool or a way to take nicotine in this form instead of taking it with smoke and all other additives that are present in cigarettes, but I ask: " Where are the figures for the proportion of people who smoke today, moving into this damaging tool, and the effects this bill will have on their decision to move? How many lives do you live in that way? However, I ask, " Could there be any danger that other people might move about that they don't use nicotine, but they start taking nicotine in this form and possibly start smoking cigarettes on top of the test? ' One down. A senator answered the question of how these things are changing, how they are instead of smoking cigarettes to this liquid. Where does the senator have information about the cost of life, this effect on the behavior of young people, or people who are moving to ◯US, that they get nicotine and stop moving, and on the other hand, stop smoking, move over to even though they can. In a house that makes it easy for you to take nicotine, which is a way of using it rather than getting involved in it, human life? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u90	Mr. President. I said in my speech that I don't have numbers over how this works. However, I referred to people who have stopped smoking for a period of time, people who had been smoking for a very long time, from the age of 12 to a much older, people of all ages who have made use of this resources for some particular time, and whose feelings are better. I said, however, that we needed a lot more research. I think they're being made up of those words because this potential for people to stop smoking is growing. I also mentioned that I knew a woman who was in her late 30's who never smoked, but I'm using electric cigarettes. She has always been very opposed to smoking tobacco. This is something we can't overlook, that this risk is also there. Perhaps that's why I feel that the bill is all right with me. All these people I quoted earlier do not speak of any difficulty in picking up this product or the possibility of not smoking in, not smoking in restaurants, not smoking in the General Assembly Hall, or where it is now. Since most of these people have been smoking for a long time, they have not had the opportunity to smoke in public places, and they just don't place them, feeling that they're not the main issue, but that they can have access to it without almost hanging around with walls. It's somehow that way because it's illegal as it is today. That's what I have information about from people I've listened to and personally know, so that's what I'm talking about. In view of how few we are, I think that long-term research should be able to give us good clues. In effect, they need to go forward the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u91	Mr. President. It's exactly this. It's a bit much of the law here that we don't fully examine the effects it has. The effects of tobacco smoking are unconvinced. If we are not aware of the number of those who decide to move away from tobacco smoking to this bill, we do not know how much it will affect human life. Then we do not know how this will affect human health. That's what's missing. We are here to make a decision that might have a negative impact on human health, though I believe that everyone in this room wants to have a positive influence on human health. We need that information. That's something I encourage a welfare committee to go into the stitches on. Well, at least not at all. A senator knows people who don't make it for themselves to go out, but knowing people is not a basis for legalization. We need the information. I call for a welfare committee to go down to the stitches of this so that we are not accidentally setting rules around nebules or vents - electric cigarettes are probably the ones that are going to get stuck, that is a contributing factor, and that sounds good - which, in the end, have a bad effect on human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u92	Mr. President. As a former smoker, I feel no pity for people when they have to go out and smoke. I even smoked. For a long time, it didn't have this chance to stop, not even gum. Seriously, I don't think we can wait. It's a fact. This is something we live in today, and we need to make some adjustments. I don't think we can wait until there's some tests because they can take away, and some of them are supposed to last for a long time. We can take short studies such as talking to people, as I say, who have stopped smoking and used it for one, two, three years, or something like that, but we need some angel who uses it for a certain time. In my opinion, we can't wait until we find that. We need to put a frame on this. I can't believe this has a negative impact on human health. We have a good access to this with the law so that I don't see that these laws can have a negative impact on people's health. The senator may see it in some way. It's a demeaning tool. We can buy this if we want to. We can stop smoking and take advantage of this, i.e. Take off traditional tobacco into electric cigarettes. What effect does it have on those whom it chooses, whether they use it as I said before, it's dangerous according to research, it increases the risk of having a heart attack, etc., so we need to see, too. Will there be many who add this, or will there be many who actually change? Quit some, feel like they're not replacing it and going back over, etc.? Is that because our standards are too low? There are all kinds of tests that need to be done. As I'm saying, I don't think we can wait for every investigation. But they still need to be done, that's a very good thing, and I just hope a minister put it in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u93	A respectable president. I'm going to be sincere and honest in my language, as I generally try to be and say that I don't really approve of this bill. They may be surprised to think in the standard picture of the left - green that they are forever some sort of custody group. Of course, a stereotype is not the correct picture. However, I intend to be honest about the same fact that I am not entirely opposed to this bill. I totally understand what's at the height. The health minister is going with it. I agree with what no doubt has been discussed in many places, and no doubt they are discussed under the wall here in the chamber now because of that reason. Councilmen standing there and coughing, must put some kind of regulations and environment in mind of this matter. I think everybody's down. Senators here have expressed themselves spoke like this, and I think everyone sees that this is the way it has to be. But I am not convinced that the solution is to take this thing and simply become addicted to tobacco. That it means just the same things about tobacco. Why? Because we use the same organ to consume the product? We'll carry this up to our mouths and suck? Some liquids thus consumed include nicotine, not all of them. But there are other factors. I admit, I feel that there are certain discrepancies involved in certain matters. I'm actually very confused about many products that are harmful in general. I don't think I'm wrong when I say that I see regular nicotine advertising and other things like that. You can't advertise. That's not why I'm calling after a permit to advertise it. But I feel that there's some discrepancies. It is fine to get a clear report from the highest level. Health Ministers, what advertisements do. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Embarrassing ban as a tobacco protection is based on the view that demonstrations can contribute to consumption. I will e.g. take this with me if there's a discussion on a drinking bill where you suggest that alcohol advertisements be authorized. I must look at the highest. Ministers and anyone who supports that bill must then agree that shows and advertisements apply to alcohol, such as this phenomenon, which I have not mentioned so far. I have to admit, I was most disappointed in the highest degree. Ministers that as good a textwriter as he is should be using the wordy cable to describe this phenomenon when the reserving is called electric cigarettes. And by calling it electronic cigarettes, we're hammering the fact that these are cigarettes, just electric cigarettes. Just as electric cars are cars, only driven by electricity. But they're not cigarettes. It's not that whatever we suck into our lips is cigarettes. If so, life would be difficult for many. I think there's a lot of trouble with this approach, taking your electric cigarettes, and putting them on the same lines of law and orderwork and cigarettes and tobacco. For example, I think the law itself is inconsistencies with 1. ...the purpose of the law. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of these laws is to reduce health and tobacco - related deaths, including health problems. by helping to reduce tobacco consumption and to protect people from the effects of tobacco smoke. Yet, this change has no bearing on this. It's not about tobacco. I think it's true what's happened. Senators here - I had a word with you. paritaprevir Early Sverrisdóttir Sveririsdóttir - that by putting an electric cigarette under the same hat that tobacco, less will use them as a way to stop smoking. That is inconsistent with the purpose of the law and its contents. This is presented in comments on the individual articles of the bill, with the permission of the president: ▪ If it was natural to talk about the purpose of the law, it would be to reduce the health and death caused by tobacco, including tobacco. by helping to narrow the habit of tobacco, and by protecting people from the effects of tobacco smoke. The nature of the situation decreases the law, not to tobacco, but to influence the reduction in tobacco consumption, thus reducing the risk of health injury and tobacco deaths. I think that putting electric cigarettes under the same hat that tobacco can make these good goals make it harder to reach that goal. Less people are going to use electric cigarettes to stop smoking. I had a place to talk before what? paritaprevir The Hildur of the Sverrisdóttir for where to use this product. I asked them earnestly, and ask here also into the void, I don't know what is normal in these matters: Can someone near a man be forbidden to breathe in, e.g. nicotine-free fluids and steam all over you? A pit off nicotine-free liquid? I can't figure it out. We have become so involved in human relations. Technology quickly drives us to the point that I don't know exactly what laws to take. But what about the dangers of smoking tobacco? It's not about her. We're talking, not about tobacco smoke, but about steam from liquids. That's a different thing. I wondered, " Is it not normal to put a special law on this product, because by trying to tread on tobacco laws and tobacco prevention, we find ourselves in the inner contradictions, talking about anything we don't set a law about? ' I think it can work directly against the goals of its own laws. But there comes a time when we want to do what we want to do about this product. I think the highest. Ministers have a very good will and resolve in this matter. I agree with almost everything he brought into his story on the matter, even though I may not necessarily agree with the case itself. The contradiction is that we are dealing with a product that we all agree that must be prevented from eating. Is it the way to hit the tobacco hat on it? I really don't think so. But I don't speak here as some deep-headed statesman, nor do I. Minister, this is the way it should be. I'm more of a sharer in this. I think there are two views that especially need to be kept in mind on these matters. On the one hand, it's a fact, like the highest. A minister went well over, that youths begin using electric cigarettes. If I remember correctly, I spoke at the highest. Ministers that 14% of 16 - year - old adolescents had tried or abused this product. Let us not pretend that our freedom to be so great is not to be taken into consideration. It's not like that at all. We need to be very alert to that fact. The other viewpoint we need to be alert to is the fact that electric cigarettes have helped countless times to stop using tobacco, which is far less damaging to health. We can't ignore it. That's why I feel that by the rules of electric cigarettes, we need to find an average road between us. The bill says that there's an average, which I'm not sure I agree with. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The results of the work done during the preparation of the bill are that the way in which this is going is designed to ensure those who wish to stop smoking through electric cigarettes have the opportunity to improve access to electric cigarettes and refill containers. In contrast, there is a measure of caution about preventing the incidence of nicotine addicts, especially among young people. Yes, there's a safe way to go when it comes to it. But I'm not sure when it comes to the idea that as many people as possible can use electric cigarettes as an aid to stop smoking. I'm not gonna come up with any solution. I think the highest. Ministers give this matter a good idea. But I think the highest. A minister is mistaken about trying to take a product like an electric product or a phenomenon like them - I hate that all these materials, whether alcohol or cigarettes, are always being spoken of as every other necessity and defined by another phenomenon. That's what I think is a cause of the problem, causing a strong reaction that has been heard in many parts of the world. Likely, few pressure groups can become more exasperated than those dependent on some kind of tobacco. Let us not hold to great words. But it is worth considering, and we need to take it seriously, whether the current bill may cause fewer people to stop smoking tobacco. If it is, it's not a good bill. Then it's just a simple matter. Then you will need to find a way not to do so. Here's the bill submitted and went to work on the Committee. I encourage the committee on which this is going to be covered, and so to us all, not to ignore the conclusion that this can be concluded if the bill is accepted as the same. We all want some kind of reform, some sort of law, about this, and we don't want unregistered access regardless of age or anything. We want to make this matter as good as possible. I repeat at the end that it is important that they do not inhibit the use of electric cigarettes to stop smoking tobacco.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u94	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn's Óttarsson Proppér has to be found some kind of moderate in this, like so many others in politics. If we agree on the basis of the building, why are we trying to go even farther than we need? I suggest that the welfare committee involved in this discussion rests on that basis and in consultation and in cooperation we can find some way that should appeal to everyone. Each of us agrees that we need to do something about this. We have a moral obligation to do something. Legally, and this is probably the most part, walking in the present environment, not in the long run. The Marketing Authorisation Holder has not issued for the sale of these tobacco fluids, nicotine liquids. From what I understand, this is a prerequisite for sales to take place. Actually, there is another point that indicates that we certainly need to continue in this matter. I'm simply afraid that these differences may delay the point that we do not reach any conclusion, which would then be legally bad. Of course, if we think of the students who become addicted to this addictive substance, we need some weight to deal with it, but we must not go too far, so we would trouble older people who are trying to stop smoking cigarettes for some destructive remedy. Finally, I suggest that the welfare committee take a good look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u95	Mr. President. I'm gonna try to keep it short, like the life of the heavy smoker. There's a lot of things that bother me with this bill. Secretary of health. It is, as others have mentioned, the use of words, electrical cigarettes. It's not like cigarettes. It's different. What bothered me, too, about reading this bill and how it's being processed is the emphasis on some form of consultation with ATTVR. Now it's the government that sells tobacco. Tobacco maintains the government's liquor store, some say. In a way, the electricase exists on the head of the ALTVR. When I think back a little bit, having smoked myself for a long time, it's always so that when something comes out to help you get rid of that tobacco demon, the state will make it hard for you. When you switched to the tobacco to stop smoking, it quickly rose. Probably there were too many of us who decided to stop smoking and use our nose or mouth tobacco at the same time. I feel the same way. Now there's something that might be really crazy, and it's already under way. This bill helps fight tobacco. It is the young people who can be impressionable - they may be using electric cigarettes without ever having smoked. I'm surprised if we're going to tighten our legislation, so we're going to do something that the teenagers think is cool right now. It can quickly change, as we know. As for the discussion of studies involving youths and their electricity use, I'm going to allow myself to question those tests. Any tests on the use? The questionalists answered? I can't see that it can be taken into consideration when making decisions like this. You see, there is a good way that we can cope with something undesirable, and that is a prevention. I don't think we've talked enough about them. Prevention is the only thing that has proved to be successful. There is no stopping anyone from commandments and prohibitions and hard-forward rules. In the past, it has been observed that people are willing to make some effort to draw close to them. Even if we did so grossly forbid it, I don't think it would be successful. Being a politician in the technical age is a challenge. The world is changing fast. It may happen to everyone, including a minister, not to have enough information and to consult with experts who have only the name. The latest evidence suggests that we may have found our penicillins to the tobacco threat that kills people on a large scale. I think we're talking a little bit small about how great this could be. Healing from the Ministry of Health is not as if you were meant to have done something that could possibly do as good as that. The minister simply brings a bill to the head of the latest and, as it seems, our most effective resistance tool on smoking. But not all hope is gone. I am kind and obliged to remind you that Pirantar has provided a much normal bill based on the motive and potential benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u96	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill about changing tobacco laws with subsequent changes in electronic cigarettes. It seems to be a bill designed to explain more accurately and to form a clear frame around the new range of electrical cigarettes, though they have been present here and elsewhere for several years. This is a frame or rule of electric cigarettes, as soon as a bill based on the European Union directives is submitted. The bill, the highest. A health secretary suggests, among other things, that the information regarding the content of the product, electrical cigarettes and refill containers, is clear and well-defined as the good, and, as indicated in the report, to explain permission to sell, market and use of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Monitoring of the import, supply and sale of electronic cigarettes and refill containers is also recommended to ensure the safety of these products on the market. As one report shows, although I mentioned that a few years ago, the use of electronic cigarettes has increased rapidly in this country. Hv. A senator who spoke before gave me little research, so I would like to use the opportunity to encourage elected representatives to respect the research that has taken place, whether on this subject or on other matters. However, the accuracy of the data seems to be lacking, and more research is being done to electric cigarettes, so I think it's good at the highest level. Healthcare Minister to present this bill to explain the rules and frames surrounding the use of electronic equipment. I mentioned research. In view of the increased use of electronic cigarettes, it is worth considering that in the survey of studies and analyses last October, 46% of boys under 18 have tried an electric cigarette once or more, and 40% of girls said they tried one of these devices. Power cigarettes are different. Some contain nicotine, while others do not. To date, this has not been clearly defined. For those using electric cigarettes, it is simply not clear whether the corresponding filler contains nicotine or is not. So I think it's a good thing to make this more clear and that there will be rules for sales, marketing and the use of electronic cigarettes, as mentioned in the bill at the highest level. Minister. I also like to be quoted from the World Health Organization, which emphasized that the state set the same rules for electronic smoking as for tobacco smoking until the threat of harm has been demonstrated. This is a good and positive step for prevention, but as shown in a study published in February of this year by the above - mentioned firm, the percentage of young people who have tested electric cigarettes is very high and within the group there are many who have already tested nicotine - based generators. There's something else I wanted to point out. Today's senators, as well as scholars and doctors, change their opinion as to whether they are extremely destructive, whether electricity is more likely to start smoking, as well as smoking abuse, or to help people stop smoking. In this regard, I find interesting what was presented in the case of Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, doctor, and educational director of Iceland's Cancer Association, at a conference held on September 29, last September, by a team on the Precinct. Lára said that nicotine is no different from any other nicotine. Nicotine is a strong addictive agent and is thus classified by the EEA. This is something I think we're all aware of, hopefully. However, as with Lára's case, youths using electronic cigarettes have been found to be more likely to become involved in cigarette smoking. Lára's case in support of logic quoted several studies, including a vast U.S. study that showed this link. Also named Lára's episodes that I find interesting in this discussion about the electric fags, i.e. that tobacco companies have invested immensely in the electronic trash industry and that the amount paid for electronic advertising has increased to 20 times in three years. There is clearly the hope of profit on the part of tobacco companies; they see the potential for profit on the market by electronic cigarettes. And as Lára G. Sigurðardóttir said at this fine conference, the youngest generation is the easy catch of nicotine addiction. It is also interesting that while a specialist such as Guðmundur Karl Snæbjörnsson, who also expressed himself on this matter at the same meeting, it was not the same thing, in the case of Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, that 38 studies have shown that more than 90% of those who try to stop smoking by electronic cigarettes are unable to do so. This is a big, important case that we have not yet reached. However, there is ample evidence to show that we need to clarify more fully the frames and regulations regarding the use, label and import of the electrical sites. In this context, I welcome what's said on the bill. Healthcare Minister to prohibit the use of electronic cigarettes, the same as for tobacco, i.e. that they be forbidden to be used in elementary schools, school schools, school schools, any day care of children, and in houses primarily intended for the social, sports, and leisure activities of children and adolescents. This is a very important thing about prevention and prevention, and especially because, as we have previously spoken about here at this council, the fact that prevention in Iceland does not come naturally. It is the product of many people's great, tireless work and does not happen overnight. When new things like electronic cigarettes containing nicotine appear, I think it is wise to stop and leave the line below before continuing. I like it, and I'm glad that the Minister's bill compares with the neighboring countries, how it's been implemented there; I think that's always the good thing, with all the initials that come out. It shows that our neighbors have different ways of doing things. In some places, electronic cigarettes are aquifer to tobacco protection laws, such as Norway, the electric cigarettes that fall under the term "form of tobacco. " In Finland, electronic cigarettes are defined as products related or related to tobacco products and thus fall under tobacco protection laws. I'm glad to have a bill that explains all of this better and will take sides with young ones when it comes to preemptive matters. I would have liked to see a clear part of education and prevention in basic schools and high schools as well as about meanings. I know that the bill contains instructions for the appearance marks on both the fill containers and the generator itself, but I think we can do better. But I also think that talking about electronic cigarettes is good because there are different views. Different studies have been observed demonstrating different results. But from what I have studied, there are other studies that suggest that electric cigarettes are not the magical solution that many members of the council have spoken about here to help people stop smoking and thus reduce the health of cigarette smoking. Unfortunately, I don't think it's that simple. It would be fine if it were so simple that it was a magic solution, and we could just check over to electric cigarettes, and thus those who have become the Devil of tobacco might get rid of it. I'm celebrating this bill of the Minister, and I think it's a good thing and we can support him in this matter. I would have liked to see more emphasis on education and prevention for young people, but as I say, the bill is good, and at least he gets my support in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u97	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here and agree with a lot of things. A senator crossed. I'd like to mention the tests. They are many and far - reaching and conflicting in many respects. I put it in my speech earlier that the discussion of our waiting for the committee would be discussed when we received reviews. But on the matter of filing dogs. The senator said that there were more doubts than the others, but I didn't want it to be too lenient for why I put it that way, because it's more complicated than that, to kill down in an article, by permission of the President, by an Icelandic doctor named Guðmundur Karl Snæbjörnsson, who makes the most difficult mistake of health care. There he writes that many of the key sciences and scholars in this field have criticized the World Health Organization for their position and claimed that the electricity is one of the most important things that have been reported in recent medical matters. Criticism spans over 90 points. articles where scholars communicate on this subject. For example, both former surgeon generals of the United States and former director general of the World Society of Medicine say that by means of the electricity, it is a wonderful opportunity for us to finish the battle against the cigarette and eliminate its destructiveness, thus saving countless lives. I wanted to introduce this to myself as well as to what is claimed about what the cancer community has done, the case of research, and other issues have been criticized. This work is waiting for us on the committee because it is more complicated than you would at first think.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I understood, there was a why. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir for studies that have given conflicting details. At the conference that I quoted earlier in my talk on a nearby scale, a team of fellow workers on matters of prevention, the 29th sept. spoke Guðmundur Karl Snæbjörnsson, a doctor and specialist in domestic medicine, and pointed out that foreign research showed that electronic cigarettes are safer for our health. However, when it comes to the research I have read in connection with this matter, it is still that nicotine - containing electronic cigarettes have a damaging effect on our health. They are as destructive as they once were. Power cigarettes that do not contain nicotine, of course, are more harmless. Fortunately, the proportion of current cigarette smokers has fallen. According to my information, 11% of the people are smoking today. I hope that number goes down. That's why I'm sorry if I'm helping that, if I may, by the permission of a president, I'm sorry to be contributing to this sort of legal smoking, i.e. Reservation of electrical cigarettes that may contain nicotine, which is just stopping and preventing this bill. It's all being made clearer, so people can't buy refills that contain nicotine, even if they think otherwise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u99	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Senator. The nicotine and its harmfulness are just one of the things that are taking place in the educational community. If I kill down to another article after Dr. Gumund Karl Sjöbjörnsson, which has the heading "Raflets: The fear sheet detonated, as reported by Dr. Guðmundur Karl Snæbjörnsson, is almost harmless compared to taking nicotine on cigarettes that kill one of the two users in a larger context. This article shows that nicotine itself is being abused by a pair who drink coffee. I don't sell it any more than I buy it in this article, but I'd like to mention, as we've been in many places, that this discussion is extensive, that's the research that doesn't exactly conflict. Even though I'm going to join the end with what I'm going to do. A senator, of course, that we must be careful not to adopt certain rules of conduct, would I like to refer back to my previous talk on this matter today, but I also believe that we do not miss out on a wonderful opportunity to legalize a great, much less destructive behavior, though nothing is perfect. Other than that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later responded. Regarding nicotine, I have also read what Guðmundur Karl Snæbjörnsson has said, but I must say I don't agree completely with him. Nicotine is a strong addictive agent and is thus classified as a member of the EEA. Nicotine, for example, can cause harm to an unborn baby if a mother consumes nicotine in any form during pregnancy. In fact, it can result in permanent impairment of development. Nicotine is not an ordinary substance that can be said to be all right. We do not know exactly how much nicotine is consumed by the person. So I think we should continue to submit to the laws recommended by the World Health Organization for nicotine and its consumption. Nicotine is not harmless. Therefore, I think it is better to start out with caution than to start off without having the situation and regulations around this level of consumption. I think it's better, especially when it comes to the effective and massive preemptive work that has been done in Iceland for the last few years on tobacco and alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to mention some indirect indiscriminate, i.e. An indirect smoke that has steam to do. According to the bill, steam is placed in the same group as smoking; in airports and dance clubs, it would be tiptoe at the same place as smokers. What do steamers owe to be placed in the most dangerous environment of indirect smoking? According to the studies I have read, the effects of indirect steam are much less dangerous than the effects of indirect smoking. A baby would have to lick a room, as was said in a British study, in order to obtain the same amount of nicotine that came from indirect smoking in the same room. What are steamers to pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u102	A respectable president. I am happy that this is an English translation of the word "pussy " that I've just been talking about with other members of the convention here at the sides of the halls of this discussion. But steam is a good word. I just stick with what I'm doing. paritaprevir Leví Björn brought in here. Regarding indirect smoking, this bill suggests that the same rules of authority apply to the use of electronic cigarettes as to other tobacco. Without making a deal with this bill, I'd think that while researching the consequences of this event, and we don't know if steam uses steam filled with nicotine or not, it's better to fence up indirect smoking in the parts of the bill; in elementary schools, in play schools, in houses designed for the social, sports, and leisure activities of children and teenagers, etc. I think it's a reasonable way, as we wait for more results to reach the same well, i.e. that the damage to the steam from electronic cigarettes is exactly the same as the smoke that comes from standard cigarettes if it contains nicotine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u103	A respectable president. We're sending steamers into that area, where we know it's dangerous, indirect. Why do we send them into an area that we know is dangerous? That's what I'm thinking. People just disappear but don't smoke. Either way, we'd like to get rid of indirect, publicized smoke and have made it very successful, as I believe. But I'm not interested in sending steam into a space where they have to endure indirect smoke. Then we'd have to have two separate areas. We know that another dangerous area is definitely a place for those who have to endure indirect smoke. If there are other dangers of steam, we would probably not want to mix the cigarette people in there either. In case of a moment. A senator realizes what I'm going to do, that's both what we have on indirect smoking and the uncertainty of steam.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his later answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request. I think it's good enough to care. A senator shows steam, that they do not have to endure indirect smokes by using a house - to - wall wall. I think if this were to be found in the bill, we'd be reaching some distance, where we'd define the space in the public room for electric cigarettes and space for tobacco smoke. It is better to define where this is not allowed. Besides, it just has to be solved. I think that's the most sensible solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u105	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the tobacco prevention laws, i.e. about electronic cigarettes. Before I continue my case, I'm going to assume that I'm more in favor of the bill involved in this case, i.e. to explain the box around those lips, the electrical cigarettes. As shown in the bill, the law's purpose is to reduce the risk of health and death from tobacco, including tobacco. by helping to reduce tobacco consumption and to protect people from the effects of tobacco smoke. It also states that tobacco and nicotine abuse are to be used in electronic cigarettes among young people. These are not electronic cigarettes being banned, as was the case when the case was first introduced; the news was well discussed at the height. A health minister would have intended to forbid the use of these products. Not so, this is merely an explanation of this product, which is very common in the community, where there is no clear legislation. The bill should set clear license rules for sale, marketing and use of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Monitoring of the import, supply and sale of electronic cigarettes and refill containers is also recommended to ensure the safety of these products on the market. The use of this product has increased rapidly in this country as shown in the report. I know a lot of people who use electronic cigarettes today and have used them to reduce their cigarette use, a way to stop smoking. The result is as different as there are many individuals. I'm in favor of a frame around this product and I think it's necessary to investigate further how the electronic cigarettes affect individuals. The change in tobacco protection laws proposed by the bill is now granted a general declaration for the import, distribution and marketing of electronic cigarettes and refill containers in this country. According to current legislation, it is forbidden to sell refill containers containing nicotine liquid. In order to respond to the growing market created in the bill it suggests that there will be a license for sale, marketing and the use of electronic cigarettes. In addition, during the past few years, especially for young people, high levels of success have been achieved in this country in tobacco defenses. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Not by accident, Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter, but by a lot of people's jobs. We can call the school community, the public health community, the parents, the homes, and the schools, and other factors that have come together to achieve this success. So you have to mention that this work does not happen on its own, but good results have been obtained and so we celebrate. That key point was guided by the work of the bill to cope with increased tobacco use in this country, especially among young people, as well as the avoidance of nicotine addiction. As mentioned in the debates, why not? Councilmen, as well as the community and press conference, have come up with quite different viewpoints, including those seen in the United States. By experts and doctors. These views range from the harmless use of electronic cigarettes to stop smoking in order to allow individuals to become involved in tobacco smoking or other tobacco use. At the same time, the question was made. Councilmen here spoke after September held a conference on these matters. There was a doctor and a scholar from the Cancer Society, and there were very different viewpoints, despite the fact that there were two scholars who served there. There was a doctor and professional at home medicine - I forgot to write his name - that foreign studies showed that electronic cigarettes are 95% safer than traditional cigarettes, and that there are no chemicals in the battery that cause health damage or carcinogenicity and that the contents of the fluid are not known to be harmful. Uninformedness - notice, it is unclear - with a harmful effect on individual flavors and therefore 5% is the target. This doctor felt that electric cigarettes were not healthy and not for nonsmokers but that they were far more harmless than cigarettes, that all the toxic substances in the cigarette that killed people were taken out of this liquid. However, the bill shows that electronic cigarettes are relatively new to the market and long-term studies that help help help to help to identify the potential impact of their lack of use. The World Health Organization has emphasized that countries set the same rules for electronic use as for tobacco smoking until there is no harm to the defense. This takes largely into account the Agency's position. I think it's very sensible while we don't have the knowledge that the World Health Organization says about in its publications and articles; while we don't know about the harmful things, we have to go to the ground with caution. I'm celebrating the very bill we're discussing here. At this conference, Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, an educational director of Iceland's cancer center, also spoke. She told of 38 studies showing that smokers using electronic cigarettes are 28% less likely to quit smoking regardless of whether they are interested in it or not. In her case, 90% of those who try to quit smoking by electronic cigarettes failed. She wanted to say that studies had been misinformed in the media, where electric cigarettes have been claimed to cause detoxification in smoking. It does not indicate that electronic cigarettes are associated with a reduction in the frequency of daily smoking. We see these differing views and discussions in society, some of which may be the result of lack of knowledge. We do not know exactly what this will do for us. Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, director of the National Cancer Society of Iceland, also said at the aforementioned conference that nicotine is a potent addictive toxin and is classed in the EEA. This was also shown in the matter of why. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir. For example, a fetus that uses nicotine as a form during pregnancy may have permanent developmental defects. Lára noted that according to a U.S. study, two thirds of those who claimed to use electronic cigarettes were also smokers. She also mentioned that seven carcinogenic substances, along with other harmful substances, were found in electronic cigarettes. They also had no water vapors, as falsely claimed, and that nicotine levels were often more than expressed. It revealed that adolescents using electronic cigarettes are more likely to get involved in cigarette smoking and that if youths see electronic cigarettes, they are more likely to test them. As I have said many times in my talk, there are very different views on this subject. I think it's very important that this should be investigated further, that we put a frame around this product, which is no ordinary consumer product, and we'll get things straight. I also need to express my satisfaction that this is not being banned but that the legislation around it is clear and that there is a law. We know that in certain cases, these products have helped smokers stop smoking, but not in all cases. But I would like to resist the fact that children who smoke do not begin to view smoking as acceptable behavior, i.e. that such smoking is for granted and that everyone should try it. The bill suggests that electronic cigarettes apply the same rules for sale and marketing, and apply to tobacco in accordance with local law. It refers to the package of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. It is suggested that a new law be added to 6. The law forbids tobacco and electric cigarettes or refill containers of text or word pictures that may be especially appealing to children and adolescents, including image decorations or slogans that may encourage the consumption of tobacco or electronic cigarettes, and that electronic cigarettes and refill containers must be advertised. The same rules also apply to the use of electronic cigarettes as to other tobacco, to avoid using electronic cigarettes in services, companies and communities, to forbid drinking at dance clubs, as well as sports and hobbies, elementary school, working school, and high school. I think it's very important that this is clear. Most likely, the case will take place. The welfare committee. There we will take the discussion on this matter, all of them. Senators there. Finally, I want to thank you very much. A health minister for putting this matter to work. Working with it at the moment will be good and productive. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u106	President. What an interesting discussion that has been! It can be said that at last there was a bright future, a VG and progressive one that found a common heart beat in politics. I would like to point out that I have considered these matters quite well and the country that has enlarged the legal structure around these things in our neighboring countries, where Britain is and they have also achieved the greatest success. There are extraordinary numbers of people who have stopped smoking by means of electric cigarettes or by nicotine gum or so on. I think we should look to the countries that have succeeded and that do not restrict them. It should be noted that the bill presented to Pirantar and me has addressed all the recommendations made in connection with making laws about this type of tool to stop smoking, including the EU. has very many of the things discussed that are essential. There is no objection to the use of electronic devices. What we're going to do is we're going to end this with tobacco laws. There's one thing I'd like to ask the highest. Minister Óttar Proppér that: If this falls under the tobacco law, does that mean that these products will be more expensive? Is there any information on how to issue this in the Regulation? Then I'd like to ask. I've only seen research that suggests that those youths who test electricity don't smoke regular cigarettes. I've seen no research to support the other claims. I'd like to point out that prevention is the best way. By bringing these excellent ways under the same songs that prompts and cigarettes, we are at the same time creating the same signal between the generators and the gypsies, creating a mental connection between these two objects, which is not good if major concerns arise. Ministers are that youths are attracted to smoking by testing electric cigarettes. The evidence that there is a danger that adolescents may test something, so legislation is in my opinion harmful. These reasonings are similar to those of earlier times when people were smoking ion and putting tobacco in them; they did not necessarily mean that people would start smoking cigarettes. There was no particular causal relationship. I also find it very important to point out that very many people die from smoking and suffer serious health problems. There is no statistical evidence like that of electric cigarettes. There have been a number of extensive recent studies that show that electric cigarettes, or nebulisers, are 95% less harmful than cigarettes. So you must ask yourself, " Why don't we do everything we can to ensure serious damage? ' Why is this bill so exorbitantly one - sided that it takes into account, not an approved study, but a simple one - sided one? I think it's very, very strange how it's set up. I hope that once the committee makes this issue, it will support and study the available research, which is very easy to provide access to members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u107	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you very much for a very good and meaningful discussion today. There are various viewpoints that have developed. I can agree with many of them, even though I do not fully agree with all of them. Now, at the end, I'm going to try to answer only questions that have been directly addressed to me, and less than a few things before we hide the matter. The welfare committee for discussion. So I'll try to answer questions as the last speaker, OK? 3.m. The Republic of Reykjavík, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, directed to me in his last talk, is there first to take advantage of the use of electronic power from the tobacco law, making it more expensive. To answer, the product is not expected to be more expensive in this bill. The only cost expected in the bill is that the consumer room can charge for notifications. As is the case with such costs, it is mainly thought to deliver a stream of cost to reporting, to work, to business and homepages that supply information, and to update those who have reported and met the requirements. It is required from the European Directive to carry out such a website. That's really a safety point. It's the only currency laid up in the bill. The product is not taken into account as taxing anything over other normal consumer products, i.e. It's just a merit tax and stuff. Also asked why. A member of the body of elders on what sort of research would suggest that regular use of electronic cigarettes led to smoking. As I said in my speech, electronic cigarettes are relatively new ones. Studies are ongoing and results are being obtained. Indeed, they are misleading. However, the research we have most much used in this work is the same as the basis for the European Parliament's Directive, the research done by neighboring countries, and especially by the World Health Organization, which we take into account and have a rule of work that their information is based on literature and research. In the foundation, the idea is that although this is a new method and everything else and certainly non - tobacco smoking, there is a new way to consume nicotine, a truly potent drug that causes addiction, a drug that truly is harmful. The World Health Organization has particularly emphasized the negative effect nicotine has on young people and fetuses, since studies have shown harmful effects on the development of the brain in young people. However, the Agency also stresses the cardiovascular adverse effects of nicotine on individuals. However, this may be the complication of smoking, which we think less of than the cancer connections, but it is still a major health problem that we are trying to answer in some way. Hv. A senator turned it to me at the end, and more members of the council have done so during the discussion, why have they put here a bill as a ban, or limit the use of electronic cigarettes, and the refill containers associated with them. To answer, this is certainly a bill on rules that keep up with this consumption, but there are strict sources of nicotine, which have not really been extenuating in Icelandic law. However, it is, as I previously said in my first speech, a public health policy that encourages me as ministers of public health in Iceland to submit this bill. It is primarily designed to prevent incidences, especially in young people and children, but at the same time to ensure access to electric cigarettes and nicotine liquids for those who want to take advantage of them, especially those who want to take advantage of them for harmful purposes, in order to stop smoking or smoking. It was kept in mind that the bioavailability and setting were not stricter than in the use of tobacco. So I'll try to slide over other points quickly and remembered. paritaprevir Andri Þór Sturluson is consulted, that he was not pleased that consultation had been made with the ATVR. To answer that, efforts were made to have a wide understanding of the preparation and writing of the bill. It was especially published and called for comments and comments in public and in general before the bill was completed and submitted to the council. TVR was certainly one of the consultations. However, the conclusion was to recommend that no electronic cigarettes and related substances be supplied or restricted to the commercial and distribution of ATVR but that the distribution would be general, only reported to the Netorial Laboratory to meet safety standards. I'm well aware of the bill...... thatthecreates of Pirata and what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has submitted here for electric cigarettes. The reason that we at the Ministry decided to submit this bill as part of the tobacco defense law was primarily to follow the example that most nations in our neighboring countries have made, i.e. Keeping this under tobacco law and related products, as they often say. It is also designed to connect with the European directive we are partly responding to by this bill. There we are also following recommendations from the World Health Organization, from the Society of Icelandic lung doctors, the National Cancer Society of Iceland, the Central Cancer Society of Reykjavík and other organisations, examples from Norway, etc., to have this connection. Perhaps that is why, first of all, a prime minister assumes it will fall under tobacco law. Pirata's bill is about a lot like this bill on extramarital safety, but it's my duty to mention that there are limitations in size, etc. not in accordance with the European Directive. The limitations of the bill we present here are consistent with the European Directive. There's no more complicated science behind it. I think I've finished at least skating over the main thing I've written down in my discussion. I would like to thank you for your excellent and objective discussions, and rejoice to the height. A welfare committee can get a good start on their coverage. I look forward to observing the Committee's activities and continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u108	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister about prices and access. What are we trying to do here? Tolin is to affect the bioavailability and prices. The natural means to keep these things away from our children are to discourage children and young people from using this product, while older smokers are urging adults to move from tobacco to electric cigarettes are to influence prices and bioavailability. As your bill puts it, the effect it has on their bioavailability is that today you can get the generator or the generator when you sit at the desk and get the nicotine you need, but after this bill is approved, you can't. We need to get out. Then there are many who just take a cigarette, perhaps even more so. That's a question, if that's true. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir mentioned earlier, that smoking is 20 times harmful, and all you have to do is get a cigarette every time you go out, and then the human health will be gone for this group of people. There's one thing. The price is the other. How would this affect prices? Can it mean that once the bill is legal, the minister, or even the Ministry, without consulting a minister, can start raising prices on some basis? Could this raise the price? If there's an increase, the consumption will be reduced. Here we find evidence from the World Health Organization, which is often very clear. I'm gonna go through it better in the second answer than, for example, I'm gonna do it. In this case there are very clear data on the effect, if prices are increased by 10%, the consumption will decrease by 4%, if the bioavailability is decreased by 10%, then consumption will also be by 2%. [[The president calls.]] Does the minister have this information? I will discuss it in a second answer, but first: Be made and be delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u109	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. So, first of all, there is an increase in bioavailability to nicotinic fluid in electric cigarettes because, as far as I know, such fluids have not been applied for licenses under current law or nicotine rules. In fact, electronic cigarettes and nicotine liquids are being allowed in Iceland, but at the same time safety of consumers is being established by the setting of product strengths, etc. For the sale bioavailability, it is certainly a measure of pressure, especially in the availability of children and young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u110	The bioavailability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u111	But especially, the availability of this product is not worse than tobacco. With the bioavailability, i.e. potential for using the product, similar to the use of tobacco, i.e. in public places and so forth. This is in accordance with the rules that have been set by virtually every other country, which have set the rules for electronic cigarettes. They think about it again, defending those who do not eat. Studies have shown, including that nicotine is measured in the urine of persons who have practiced indirect steam smoking. They suggest that there is a reason to listen to the World Health Organization for limiting indirectly access. I'll have to come back in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u112	Mr. President. Regarding the price, the World Health Organization (WHO) data for drinking alcohol and the advice it provides, it speaks of what is called the most effective or practical thing. You are most likely to have the least money by affecting the bioavailability and prices and to limit advertising. Of course, it is the most practical thing to make only rules and bans and taxes, etc., because we get money for it, and there are other people who pay. This is a relatively practical route. Then the question is, Is this the most practical way, to take the proposed route in a report by the World Health Organization? Sounds like the highest. Ministers themselves listen to what is commonly taking place, as is wise, and follow what is commonly tried. But is he aware of the underlying evidence, i.e. The effect, has any information on the consumption needle been examined? As soon as you put the product under tobacco law, you must not get nicotine inside the door. Then she's in a much harder competition when you have to go out of the house and have to look for it. Is this in the data? And back to watch. If the bill is approved, can the Minister, the Ministry, or the Subcommittee, without consulting a minister, raise the price? Prices exert a tremendous influence on the use of goods, even when it is drugs. We can see it with alcohol. As prices decline by 10%, consumption is increased by 4%. There's a lot of synergistic effect in there. What is the common effect on this matter? Is it possible for the Ministry to raise the price?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. This bill is presented on the basis of information in many places. It is certainly not that this is a special interest in the Minister's personal affairs. On the contrary. They're looking at a much larger public health impact. Whether to place the product under tobacco law makes restrictions on the product's performance, advertisements, use restrictions, i.e. where to use the product: No, it's not because it's being put under tobacco laws; it's a decision, as I mentioned earlier, to try to limit and affect others. When it comes to the decomposition, it is important and in the bill's report that we recognize the damaging role of the electric cigarettes for those who are trying to quit smoking. What we are concerned about is the incidence of those who have not smoked and the possibility that especially young people will become addicted to nicotine through this process. Iceland already has one of the lowest rates of smoking in countries to which we live. There is, in fact, reason to worry about the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u114	Price.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u115	In order to arrive at the end of the watch: Yes, there is no such thing as a burden on the bill. It is not permitted to place taxes in particular or to raise prices except by the arrival of the Generals. It's not expected in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u116	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to legalize specific performance reforms and medicinal products prepared by the Ministry of Health. The point of the bill is that it was considered necessary to set total legislation on specific materials and medicinal products used in order to improve the physical performance of individuals, especially in competitive sports. These materials are better known under the foreign term ◯doping, by permission of a president. The Council received indications from the customs authorities that the import of the products and chemicals was increasing and following consultation with the police, tolls and tolls called Iceland's National Development and Olympic Union was decided to engage in the project of the bill. It is thought that the development of an illegal import of the above substances and thus reducing the availability of medicinal products is essential, as it is well known that the use of the active substances and medicinal products may adversely affect human health. Known effects include tendon and muscle injury, increased risk of cardiovascular events, increased incidence of cancer and liver injury. The bill has some of the stuff and drugs that hear under the values of the law. These include anabolic steroids, testosterone and derivatives, and male hormone effects, growth hormone and erythropoietins as well as substances with comparable effects by increasing red blood cells in the blood beyond normal levels before age and gender. Under the scope of the law, the substances that increase growth hormone production and release, testosterone and its derivatives or equivalents are also found with the male hormone effect and natural erythropoietin (erythropoietin). According to the bill, import, import, sale, sale, exchange, extension, receptor, production and possession of the above materials is prohibited and prohibited in the European Union. The National Competent Authority can issue such a ban and is therefore always repealed. The bill does not cover materials and medicinal products authorised by the National Competent Authority for prescribing and use in health care or for scientific studies. In this case, the National Competent Authority does not include authorised medicinal products or medicinal products authorised by the National Competent Authority. The bill will not affect consumers. It is expected that a minister's legal authority should include material and medicinal products that are falling under the chemical and pharmaceutical classes specified in the bill and that may carry the risk of abuse with the same limitations as in the bill, as well as on the authority of the European Medicines Agency for the release of its resources. Draws out that the bill was sent in a narrative process and received reviews from the surgeon's office and the Iceland's Olympian Association, but the bill was sent to the Agency for a specific review and worked in cooperation with the Agency. Much of the evidence was taken into account. Assessment of the impact of the bill on the state funds has been carried out and cannot be seen to see that its legal fixation, will remain by law, resulting in increased expenses for state funds. Furthermore, balance assessments of the bill were conducted to examine its potential effect on gender equality and gender effect. No gender data are available on the mercenary class and therefore further diagnostics are needed to examine the sex status in the area of the bill and whether it represents a gender effect. A respectable president. I've now explained the basics of the bill. I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to what. well-being and 2nd... by discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u117	Madam President. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only to this bill. Article 2 of the report, on the grounds and need of legislation, says, by permission of the president: For the purpose of this issue, the health care providers have also called for further rules due to increased import of the above materials, and therefore legislation, including legislation, is considered necessary. to prevent illegal import, sale, distribution and manufacture of the additional substances and medicinal products. It's all good and good. But why does a minister consider it necessary to punish for the possession and use of these materials? Then, mostly, I wonder about the need for prison punishment. Tells you the highest. Minister that incarcerating users of these chemicals will bring us closer targets of damage, the possession of prison punishment, and the prevention of health damage?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u118	A respectable president. It is to answer that the bill will certainly be the initiative, or should we say for indications, from customs and police authorities as well as from the environment of competitive sports, including in agreement with the Olympian Committee and the ISI. The bill is about, as it is said in the bill itself, import, import, import, sale, trade, exchange, delivery, reception and production. However, it is not directly relevant to the user, i.e. The use of the product is not directly expected to be punishable but is the import, sale, distribution and production of the product emphasised. Reason is to suggest that when preparing and making the bill, the bill was very much considered to be a bill adopted in the dance council and is in force there, with the most important basis for setting up this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u119	Madam President. Okay. Now I'm getting the wrong idea. Two. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Prevention and management of certain substances and drugs listed in Article 1. and are used to improve your physical performance, is prohibited in the Icelandic Precise. Guardary - Isn't it true that the person who uses the drugs, if he has or is using the drugs? And the treatment, the use of the materials - does it not mean that the person who uses it has it and is taken with it, is incarcerated? If not, I'm getting the wrong idea. The highest. Ministers assure me of the correct understanding in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u120	It is the purpose of the bill to prevent distribution. It is indeed a possession of the distribution, import, export, sale and purchases, etc. But the bill is primarily for distribution and import, that it will be the criteria for the declaration of guilty and prison regulations. It is stated in the bill that it is expected that regulations will then be submitted so that I may read from 4. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ A secretary is permitted to decide in Regulation that content or product that is not specified in Article 1. but are likely to be misused due to their physical abilities to improve performance, to be subject to the same limitations as in Article 2. In this case, a Minister in the Regulation can further issue the authorization of the Agency for granting the granting of the expanded access to the Member State's competent authority. 2. g........................... The primary purpose of the bill is to prevent distribution. Of course, it lays the groundwork to try to control the use of potentially undesirable materials. However, the parking lot is primarily directed to import, import, manufacture, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u121	Madam President. I'm going around 3. This bill involved in the woodcutting, by permission of the President: It has to do with fines or prisons up to two years, with greater punishments against violations under other laws, violating the regulations of these laws, and following the events of a regulations set on the basis of them. Here again, we have new reasons for imprisonment people who do not act exactly as the rest of us would like. The contingency has to stop soon. Of course, we do not want people to harm themselves with drugs and hormones, but are we really the only means by which we have them that the State is more responsible for the damage? The prisons are a medieval form of punishment. If our objective, as well as that law, is to prevent physical injury, let us not use resources that directly damage our spiritual health, which can be counted in a time limited to us on this earth, and time with a family and life itself. What heroes that would punish the politicians who bring this would be if a more recent way of harming and those to whom this bill embraces were to be treated. Steering and improving drugs are resources that people take for reasons most of us can understand. I find the thoughtlessness, with reference to the penalty principle, which does not make this bill acceptable in our time. Does anyone really think in 2017 that forbidding something to work? It's never worked. In addition, the bill contains the same fact error as that of others who claim that the bill, and then the penalty, will not reach consumers, only the big bad dealers. The bill says, with President's permission: It will affect only those who are involved in the import, import, sale, sale, exchange, delivery, receipt, manufacture and possession of the above products, but not consumers. Now I have never been in the business of this kind, but I can imagine that they are similar to any other trade: consumers have to buy, take, and store such drugs. So it can be that just being consumers would be the number of them who will be responsible for the punishment. I'll come up with some other facts. This use is often associated with a number of psychological problems, e.g. muscle dependence and self- image. That is what the United States will cost in 14,000 B.C.E. K. Every day, you keep someone in jail, and you don't have to pay for it. I was a prison guard for eight years, I know that. All data indicate that. It causes more damage and expense. You can have two psych lessons a day for each person who will be guilty of breaking these laws for the same money. Instead of imprisonment, we can help with the same amount. Good law is not a matter of treading in a destructive penalty against all things. Good, thinking politicians behave, for example. Budget plan so that society builds up individuals. But this bill with this penalty rule may as well have been written in the Middle Ages. It doesn't bring back anything. They do not meet their goals, limit health damage, and look like an assembly project. I'd like less than that. According to the health minister, his purpose is to nurture people's health. He can do this by promoting proper health care. His mission is not to invent new ways of going to prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u122	Madam President. Here we will discuss a bill for the legislation on the prohibition on specific performance and medicinal products. I present my pleasure with this bill. I understood 3. not in the same way as hell. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. However, I do know that she understood it so that it was not for the consumer to be punished but for those who move in and sell. I hope so, because she's on a welfare committee, that the committee will make sure that we understand correctly. I think it's important, it's time, this bill comes out. This has long become a big problem, especially in certain sports sectors. Unfortunately, we hear too often when people fail the tests. This is not just for men, nor for women. It's gotten bigger. I think we need to deal with this. I like that, too, according to Section 4. If there are any substances or medicines not specified, a minister may decide by regulations to add to this category. I think it's good. When you know the consequences of mishandling and misuse of steroids or other such substances, you are aware of the need to establish some kind of legislation, to try to inhibit import and illegal sale, to control this problem in some way. I don't know, but it's at least an attempt to get those people involved trying to lay hold of these products with some clear law frame behind them. The results were discussed here, i.e. fines or imprisonments, whether they were right and successful or not, or whether we could be brought more in the direction of correction. I'm quite the same as saying that it's what's supposed to be in our punishment system. However, I do not view imprisonment in any case as unwise. I don't know if it is in this case or not. It's always a question of what makes people stop breaking the law, what needs to be done to make you decide not to take the chance. I don't know if it's the right approach or not, but I don't want to say it's like the Middle Ages. I don't agree with the opinion it had here. But I agree that we should use corrections much more. Although steroid use has been permitted 19 hundred thirty-seven hundred, or when it was started in this country, we see the consequences of prolonged steroid use in adults right now. You know the psychiatric effects, Manic symptoms, the depression manifested by these reactions, apart from many other factors involved in such consumption as other abuses. I'm not gonna talk about this for long. I'm glad that this bill has been released, and I really hope it controls what it's supposed to do, making the import limit easier, making it easier to confiscate, and less afraid to take a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u123	Madam President. Just at the end of the day, I want to reiterate to the objective of the bill is to cover the illegal production, import and distribution of the specified materials. to help deal with crime that is often accompanied by that activity. The laws are also designed to specify the steroid and implants that are allowed to produce, import and distribute in the form of medicinal products for those patients who need them. According to the same ideologies as Danir, legislation covers the misuse of steroids and tissue additives. Do not intend to punish consumers for steroids and implanting agents. As noted in this report, the European Parliament's contract against drug abuse in sports has been made available since 1989, along with a supplementary agreement with the same agreement since 2003, the Copenhagen Declaration since 2003, and the UNESCO Drug Control Convention since 2005. With law No. 124/2012, No. 64/1998, the State's responsibility for the implementation of organized sports drug surveillance in this country, and for the State to enforce the commitments of the Icelandic State. Therefore, as clearly indicated in the report with the bill, it is intended to respond to the distribution, import, manufacture and export, but not to the consumers. In the 3rd. for wood laws it says that it protects fines or prisons up to two years - well meant; up to - there are no greater penalty against violations under other laws to violate the regulations of these laws and according to the events of a law set on the basis of them. It is then permitted to confiscate with direct or indirect gains resulting from violations of these laws. Medicinal products and materials taken up by this law and brought to this land or sold illegally in this country will be taken up by court. Then, by permission of the president, it says: ▪ An attempt to commit offenses or to participate in offenses under these laws is a punishment as stated in III. in the general penal code. If there is a violation of lawbreakers, the legal body can be made in accordance with Article II. section A general penal code. It is clear that the warrant is guilty or incarcerated up to two years according to the severity of the offense. I repeat it. I personally state that I do not approve of criminalism when it comes to imprisonment, etc. Nevertheless, there are sources of fines and possible imprisonments in violating various laws here in Iceland. In this case it is being done to prevent the spread and production of substances known to be harmful to those who consume too much. The purpose is, not to find consumers to punish them, but to try to prevent what seems to be an ever - increasing amount of these chemicals in Iceland. I hope that explains it a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u124	Madam President. It matters to me that it is crystal clear not to jail those who use, the consumers, and ask if it applies to fines. I'm not a law nerd, but it says in the report, by permission of the President, that the bill is intended to affect only the illegal import, import, sale, sale, exchange, delivery, receipt, manufacture and possession of the above products. I can't quite figure it out. You are naturally involved with the drugs, or the chemicals, if you eat them, which means you are protected. It is stated in the report that it is part of this. The highest. Is that confirmed by the health minister right now? It's not a question of intention. It's what the law says. Is it clear that there is no way that those who take only these substances will be fined or imprisoned?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u125	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I'll try to answer as best I can. It is clearly stated in the report that the bill, this prohibition and this punishment is not intended for users. I can't say, because I just don't have this chapter in general penalties and I'm not a lawyer any more than a what. A senator, that there is no possibility in the situation that a user who is involved with the material in the possession or possession of the materials will not be able to obtain material benefits or what, will not be able to bear guilt. But that's not the purpose of the law specifically. That's why it's stated in the report that, although it's not a part of the bill itself, an accessory, a lawyer, with the bill, and it explains the spirits of the law. That's the thought. On the other hand, I'm the highest. the welfare committee I recommend taking over the bill to find out more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u126	Madam President. I appreciate the answers. A minister who looks forward to taking a full look at this matter within the committee is very hoping that we will not punish the consumers. It is especially good to know that the secretary of health is not in favor of that route. It's lying, for example. a recent report by health minister on the shape of policies to reduce the harmful effects and side effects of substance abuse, which show that damage to the police and to the punishment system was to be considered by the President's permission to be the problem of drug abuse in the Icelandic community as a health problem rather than the subject of the police and the punishment system in the country. The proposal for this report included the group. to eliminate prison punishment for possessing doses of consumption. Although performance mechanisms cannot be classed as a drug, these substances are used to satisfy addiction. It's a question of whether prison punishment really works as an obstacle. History and evidence say it isn't. I like to hear that. A health minister agrees. Then it's just to make sure the law guarantees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u127	Madam President. Yes, I agree with what. Senator, I agree that in general punishmentism is not the best way. However, legal legislation in Iceland estimates the possibility of penalties and possible imprisonments for specific offenses. That's it. This bill is presented to prevent or work as a barrier to the spread of harmful substances, which experience shows that sometimes involves distribution of other illegal substances and drugs, and is designed to avoid harm. I agree with the senator when it comes to the criminal policy and a fine report quoted by the senator. I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u128	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the health insurance law, No. 11/2000. The bill suggests changes in the understanding of certain laws as well as the steps needed to make some adjustments. Iceland's health insurance will receive reform applications, assess the extent of damage, and set the amount of money on the terms of health insurance. Under the act of the law, it has been found that some of their laws are not clear enough that causes problems with the interpretation of the law. The objective is to correct this with the bill. For example, the role of Iceland's Medical Insurance is specifically proposed to assess the extent of damage caused by an event that the Agency has assessed as mandatory by the law. In the current law, only the role of the Agency is said to be taking sides on the benefits and to decide the sum of money. The Agency also evaluates the extent of damage. The bill proposes a law that includes the payment of a case at Iceland's Medical Insurance before individuals can go to courts. According to the Agency's sources, there has been an increasing increase in the need for judicial action during the course of a judicial hearing as it is not completed at social costs. The provision contributes to the implementation and increased security of the Agency by ensuring that the Agency completes the legal arrangements that have been entrusted to it. In the bill, maximum and minimum improvements are updated according to the index value of consumer prices. This is not a change in the sum of money. The bill suggests that state analysis and counseling centres and university institutions at university that provide health care are responsible for improvement. As an example of a university education program that provides patients with health care, the University of Iceland is a dental school. The objective is to leave no doubt that the state's diagnosis and counselling centre and university institutions at a university level that provide patients with health care support will ensure that patients who suffer from damage to research or disease treatments in these Member States are eligible. It is also suggested that the state's diagnostic and counseling centre and State school institutions at a university level that provide patients with health care are excluded insurance insurance due to conformity with other government agencies. A respectable president. I have now explained the principles of the bill and allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u129	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his speech. I'd like to ask about what's going on here as the main subject of the bill, what's most likely caused a delay in handling cases at Iceland's Medical Insurance, i.e. that it is mainly the time that has taken to get all the data that will lead to a decision on the matter. Now a time frame is set for eight weeks. I ask what has caused the lack of data to make decisions and if something will change, even if every person will have eight weeks to respond. You wonder, " What has caused that evidence to go so far? ' It is suggested that healthcare professionals are obliged to inform patients of the potential improvements in the law. I wondered, " Is there any kind of education involved? Or is it expected that as soon as this becomes a law, it will just happen? ' Obviously, something has not exactly worked out, as indicated by this sentence. I'll ask the Minister about these two things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u130	Madam President. As indicated by the introduction to the report, when the law went into effect on January 1, 2001, it was expected that it would be reviewed within four years of being recorded. It hasn't been done. This bill is presented as a result of an increase in events or indications that these issues need specifically updated. This is also a matter of consideration for a decision in the case of the Supreme Court No. 760/2015, referred to this problem, said that the case was brought to the courts before the Agency made a decision on the benefits. This is primarily the thought of renovating the law, not within the age of four, but within the age of seventeen, as it was. That's what I'm thinking. In terms of information, I think I'm telling the truth and correct in saying that it is similar, that there is primarily an explanation, and to further increase or define patients' right to make justice safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u131	Madam President. I thank the Minister. I think he misunderstood a little bit. There must have been delays. I know there has been an increase in the number of health insurance cases, the judiciary system, and the need to figure out how to deal with a number of such issues. However, it is reported that heavy delays were in charge of health insurance because data has been difficult to obtain and can be completed. That is why those who have had the right to recover were paid later than normal. At that time, the Kingdom has paid for the increase in interest of interest costs. New laws are now being set to sharpen, eight weeks' delay. But I wondered what it was that caused the bands in the past to be so extensive and whether this delay will make any difference. Was that low? What caused this to happen? Why should this change? Is it true that if any persons who are supposed to deliver data within eight weeks do not? What? Then we're in the same place. What has caused Iceland's health insurance, public equipment, to have not obtained sufficient data to determine matters so that people can be paid on account of such incidents?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u132	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer and the question. It is to say that I do not have accurate information about the reason or the motivation for not getting data. The idea is that by placing it specifically in the law that there is an increase in the rate of words and that health insurance is expected to complete the case within eight weeks, it is at least a considerable incentive for data to be delivered, although punishment is not defined or the consequences of failure to pass a period. This is expected to improve data collection and, therefore, increase the rate of the data. There's a small way to do this. It is defined as a set time period. This is also to ensure that the patient's right to take a stand within the normal times. It is the patient's right that is primarily in charge. Should we say that the institutions and those who need to deliver the data may be made, or rather directly, to them, to respect this patient's right. That's the thought. However, it was not expected that specific penalties would be the object of failure to meet these deadlines. Rather, it is thought primarily to be a source of encouragement to data collection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u133	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of policy and implementation programmes in disabled people's affairs over the years 2017-2021. The proposal was based on the work of a panel appointed in 2015 that had the responsibility of molding new policies and plans in the affairs of disabled people. The basis for the work of the group was an existing policy and strategy adopted at the General Assembly on June 11, 2012, which had been extended until new policies and implementation programmes are established. Local work has been carried out on the 2012/2014 implementation of projects in rural and organisations. The strategy presented here is based on the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people who were signed here in 2007 and agreed to validate at the General Assembly in September 2016. The Ministry of Health has also been working on discrimination laws with the aim of meeting the demands of Article 5. The Convention on Equality, and the prohibition on discrimination, and the 27th paragraph. the bioavailability of the labour market. In addition, the aim of discrimination laws is to introduce the European Union's directive on equal treatment of people regardless of race or nationality, as well as a workforce directive. A bill to the law has been submitted to the General Assembly. It is also presented to the General Parliament for legislation on the services of disabled persons who have a great need for support and bill to legalize the Community Services Act. Work on new policies and implementation plans in the affairs of disabled persons were endeavored to build work on more recent knowledge and set up a vision for the future, aims, and defined actions with responsible, colleagues, timetable, cost, and measurable goals. Work had extensive consultations with disabled people, communities, services, agencies, language experts, and other departments. A policy in the affairs of disabled persons takes into consideration certain baseline values such as one community for all, equal opportunities and standard of living, universal design that benefits all, and the control of disabled people in their lives. A policy in the affairs of disabled persons also takes into account that disability is a term that develops and changes and that disability occurs in the interaction of individuals with impairments and environments and attitudes that block full and active social activities as well as others. Hence, it is emphasized that people with disability can live a life of independence with dignity, respect for human rights, and bans on separateness and discrimination based on disability. The goal is that Icelandic society is based on respect for diversity and recognition that disability is part of human diversity. Therefore, any serious discrimination should be addressed, including by working on international human rights contracts that Iceland has signed and relevant legislation for this purpose. The draft proposal is divided into seven basic fields of perenniality: access, employment, health, image and education, independent life, and the development of services. Within each legal field, there are four or seven operations, a total of 37. Bioavailability includes measures aimed at having access to the community to the level of others to whom it should be used. to improve the access of disabled persons to a humanized environment and to have those disabled with access to information about rights and services in the form of understanding and acceptance. Work consists of measures that have the primary objective of increasing the employment of disabled persons, but the job of disabled persons reduces community isolation, promotes activity, enhances disability, reduces prejudice, supports independence and self - control of disabled persons, and reduces poverty. Health is about promoting the health of disabled persons in general, but it is important that disabled people, children, and adults have good access to health services prepared to provide those with special needs for disability regardless of their disability. The importance of attitudes toward disabled people in the community is highlighted by an image and education, but public knowledge and understanding of matters related to the disability and status of disabled people in the community need to be increased. It is important that the disabled and their organisation join in a plan for the changed concept and education. Education suggests that disabled people have the same right to education as others. A wide range of studies that are suitable for disabled persons must be developed so as not to lose sight of the importance of any existing study being available to disabled persons by removing their biohazardy barriers. Self - centered life is based on the fact that disabled people enjoy human rights and that they live just as well as others. Faithful people will have the opportunity to make use of their civil rights, to choose their life, and to have full access to culture, leisure, and recreation. It will be emphasised on destroying inhibitors in everyday life, but it is important that disabled people come to policy - making decisions on their own. The development of services requires that services and support for disabled persons contribute to equal control, self - control, and support. The service should be aimed at improving independence and quality of life and cooperated with the disabled and his family or their caregivers according to their circumstances. V.E.G. President. I have here explained the basics of policy and strategy in the affairs of disabled people, 2017 and 2021. It is important that such a schedule is closely followed in order to monitor its effectiveness. It is suggested that a complete follow-up procedure and be carried out by a minister - appointed task force in the affairs of disabled people. The policy and implementation of this plan will be broad consultations with disabled people and their organisations, rural communities, employment life, institutions and the Ministry on the implementation of the policy in order to achieve good results and to make the best use of knowledge and experience. I'll allow me to suggest that the plan will be followed by a discussion here referred to the welfare committee and to a later issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u134	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to the bill. Il. A body of the Parliament-sense proposals can be found in dissociation of the project designed to cover. In many cases, the costs for each joint are expressed. But a number of teams are, so the cost estimates are to be made later. As an example of the already reported cost assessment, the year 2018 will be 3 billion. K. to a work station for easy-readed text, 5 billion. K. Each year, disabled children, with specific needs, will be served in their near environment and 2 billion. K. will be provided for educational material because of better employment opportunities for disabled persons. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he believes that the amount intended for projects gives a realistic picture of the needs of the projects discussed and whether these amounts are sufficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u135	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that all such projects have been funded for costs, and at the same time make sure that funds are available to them. Of course. Yes, I suppose this money should be enough. There is a general assessment of how much work is thought to be needed to do the work. The short answer is: yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u136	Madam President. I also wanted to point out that Iceland's Institute of Environment made many comments in the implementation of the Congress resolution at the Ministry of Health. Were even. Showing the importance of careful consultation with disabled people's interests, especially with the interest groups of disabled women and children, where the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People specifically determines the rights of these groups. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether in the implementation of the Committee of Congress the Ministry has been taken into account many criticisms of Iceland's Qualification Association as well as of other organizations and their proposals for reform. What agreement was made with the disabled people's interest groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u137	Madam President. It is true that during the implementation of the programme, a number of people were addressed as normal and taken into account many of the indications they made in the process, not from the experiences of others. I think in total, both in the implementation plan and in the prime reports here being submitted to the social services of the disabled, the differential bills presented at the same time as the implementation programmes, have just had a very good and extensive consultation with key stakeholders, working out from the fundamental methodology that the disabled are involved and have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u138	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this synopsis proposal to implement a program in disabled people's affairs. This is a very good document. Then we will see if the project will become the reality of the above. I agree with what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, I also worry that a cost plan will not be involved in all of these things, but we will have to deal with it in due course. Here, for example. Talk about accessible information, projects that your rural society is going to deal with, sign language become available as well as point font, texting, and information, both written and electronic. Of course, it's the job of the Ministry, but you don't see how anywhere you can go but unless the funds come along with these projects, at least. What the locals have said. I'm gonna kill a couple of teams in the motion. It's a natural lot of paper. The increase in mental health is very important to me, and I have, of course, seen results in such activities, perhaps not mentally healthy, but the experiences of professionals who have come together and were supportive of those who are needed and who are part of that category of disabled persons. This is to promote the counseling of a mental hospital with this group and all over the country. In view of the information presented at the main meeting of the Land Hospital yesterday, you are concerned that this might be difficult. It's suggested, I don't remember what it was, 700 million or so in BUGL, but there's no special money in it at least not what we've seen. Of course, it will become more evident when we see it break down. Regarding the goal of disabled persons having access to a more specialized mental - health service, I would like to say that in view of today's situation, the public does not have access to more specialized health care, so you ask yourself: " Is there anything else that is in place and will be present for disabled people? But surely the plans are good. I also find that the role D.2, of increasing the understanding and knowledge of politicians on the problems of disabled people, is especially helpful. In fact, here's the responsibility given to the Union of Icelandic rural society, I think we also need to take it to the council, not just the relationship, but I think it's very important because one of the things you've been exposed to in rural management is a different level of understanding and respect for the status of disabled people. The same can be said of the police, the prosecution, and the justice system. There was a very good meeting last year on the General and Education Committee where our Norwegian people have had it done and are very close to this. I believe that this might be done in that spirit and that perhaps in some way in the South. Then I'd like to get into education. From that sector, I came, took care of a career for disabled people. Yesterday we received reports that diplomats could not be held in an art form for people with developmental impairment. This suggests that disabled people should have the same opportunities for education as others, and I don't think this report is a good thing. Then, at the university that welcomed disabled people, they had a long history of experimentation. Of course, there is a need to increase the variety, as expected to be this year and the next one, it seems to me. It also states that this is within the framework, the expected framework of the Ministry of Health, although the colleagues are the university and the Ministry of Education and Culture. I'm guessing that's the Department of Health. Of course, I agree that there is much to it that diversity is enough for students who are disabled. I'm sure there's a lot of different places in high school, too. I enjoyed a new school. We were building up the job, that's why a man had a lot of opportunities to do things, and there was a lot of creative power, and it gave him the opportunity to build a special track as soon as you were preparing and encouraging the students to participate in school without separating from what they could do. It also speaks of increasing integration and better preparation for the transfer of school ladders. It has been discussed that it is perhaps between high school and high school. It is suggested that there will be some sort of language manager in each district, if I have read correctly, who are actually going to make sure that such a conversation will be arranged. This has been in my home - to - be since high school became a reality, and not a question is that this is of enormous importance to our security and well - being, and so on. It is spoken of here that services will not be broken at the age of 18. Now most of them are high school students. However, this is still assumed that these students can stay for four years, if they choose, so that at the end of their studies they are now quite 20 years old. Still, there are a few things to be careful about, but personal attention is also needed, i.e. students have become adults, and then the conversation with parents ends. There, I know how to make a mistake regarding confidentiality with the student. It needs to be taken care of. It speaks of the need for housing. We all know the housing problem that we talk about very regularly here and that was a special discussion yesterday. Farmers are planned to make plans for four - year - old housing resources to work on the list of waiting. I wondered, and I'd be interested to hear what the minister thought about equal positions, because in the scattered areas as we know them, it may be a matter of course, of course, of course, that the rural communities have a lot to do about this. We are talking a lot about cooperation between areas, between large territories of service, but, of course, people want to live in their own territory. I'm running out of time. I don't think it's a lot of time to determine the maximum waiting period after diagnosis in the DG and Advisor Centre. The measured objective is that there are criteria for the percentage of children on the waiting list by diagnosis. In fact, I don't feel like I'm going to say that I'm going to have an "X" goal, but I don't think it's just a loose air. I'm sure I could talk for another time about this. It says that services to disabled children with specific needs will be provided in their immediate surroundings. That's exactly what we're supposed to do with other children, the Children's House is like, for example. building facilities for caring for children and families should, of course, be that way for disabled people. One for the rest, there's a job party. In fact, that's one of the things I have to give a second talk about, because I feel there's no way for people who want to work to do that, but the way I work is just not good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u139	V.E.G. President. I'm going to take a quick talk. The first thing I'd like to say is that the little thing I've learned from this huge piece of paper seems to be very good, although there's still some question left. The case has been referred to what. The General welfare committee, and we who sit there, will do well. I want to say something. The members of Halldóra Mogensen and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that it is very important to provide with the important objectives and ways proposed in the council's policy and implementation proposals for the disabled people's affairs for 2017-2021. That's a lot of wood. The section that I read through this report is G.1, that there will be a change of work due to the reference from school service to State Analysis and Advisoration, Children's Children's Hospital, BUGL, and Development and Behavior Centres. It's even there. It should be noted that in the early days of suspicion of abnormalities and when children have problems that may be associated with disability, the community's school service responds without delay. Of course, many people suspect that the problem is even bigger than it seems. Sometimes it turns out to be bigger than it looks, it's very different. The same chapter shows that waiting period after diagnosis may take up to three years now. In fact, such a waiting list leads to greater problems later in life because if the child or the youth does not get the help they need, that is the problem. If children do not receive appropriate services while waiting, an important period of time will thus be wasted when the child could have been cooperated. It is often too late to intervene in youth, when the damage is done. It speaks of early intervention. As a primary teacher and as a pampering child with disability, I have to say that early intervention is when we influence the progress of children as early as possible in life. The goal of shortening a waiting list and changing the practice, to react earlier, that a school, a professional in the elementary school community, may come sooner with their knowledge, use of the available tools and tools, is extremely important. Indeed, a test project carried out in the Breiðholt was achieved with tremendous success. Children's difficulties or abnormalities could be dealt with without their going through the whole process. Then, it is G.2 that the criteria for waiting time should be set after diagnosis at the State's Diagnosis and Advisory Centre. You wonder who that waiting period should be, whether here is the same criteria as the surgeon has set for a waiting period for health care. It would be informative to find out, either in the highest. A minister will or in the material pursuit at this point. The General welfare Committee. The criteria that the surgeon has, including the surgeon. the first available access to medical care is that if you suspect a problem, you can contact your healthcare professional on the same day, interview your doctor within five days, then you will have step two. Number three would be an expert's examination within 30 days and four treatments for a specialist within 90 days. Of course, we know that in many cases there is a set period of time left for service to health care far from this one, but this is the work being done. So it would be interesting to know if this is what we're going to do about waiting hours for the State Department of Analysis and Counseling. Then, in G.3, it is said that services to disabled children with specific needs will be provided in their immediate environment that they can obtain service near home. I'm glad they're looking at the whole country. I would also like to enter G.6, that disabled children and young people have access to a special leisure service, that they have the right to an extended stay and a vacation service. I'd like to tell you that at the site of Acdéri, in my community, a very good vacation service is being run for disabled children. I think it would be very helpful to get information about how they have worked with their children and their families, for this has been very effective, and the children are doing well, and that is very important. It's probably this way around the country or in many places, but if people want to see how it's done and how it's well-called, it's a community vacation home, and it's a vacation home for children with special needs. I'd like to discuss some housing too. Time flies on, I say what you say. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, time is suddenly running out, it's such a short time for a big case. It is important that these individuals have sufficient housing and that they have the potential to move away from home and to have a situation that meets their needs. I have to come into my professional life. I believe that a particular campaign and change of attitude will need to be made in the business world, the commercial market for us Icelanders. We often have people who want to work and can, in most cases, work but our job market is not, at least, if I talk out of the cases I know about, flexible enough to hire individuals to work, unfortunately. I think this case will take time, but there is a truly need for a change of attitude to achieve this goal. I'd like to say in the end, on the right more than one minute that I have left, that, in the presence of a disabled child, you have to describe satisfaction with the process of translocation. Many parents feared what would happen. Uncertainty was great, parents knew what they had, not what they could get. In most cases where I know how to reach them, this move has had a good effect on the ministry of these individuals. Service in the close environment, people even know the person and his needs, is important in this. I also saw this when I was serving as a primary school teacher at that time, and in most cases it had a tremendous effect. I hope that we have the wisdom to continue in the same direction as there will be enough money that will follow in the future so that professionals can actually go where they want to go and provide the services they really want to perform and the individuals are entitled to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u140	Madam President. How important it is to promote the involvement of disabled people in the community! That is most likely one of the best ways to ensure their rights. For four, five years, I myself have worked as a social team, and I know how important it is to perform a powerful social service, and that does much for this group. This is one of the best ways to do so is by means of granting strength and good encouragement. There are two things I would like to draw attention to here that I'm especially pleased with and that I hope it will remain and be financed. It is, on the other hand, by permission of the President: Today, disabled people don't have the right to be funded for adult re-education as others do through the savings of trade unions. It is important that disabled people have the potential to study as adults. A job and re-education fund that has the same role as that of union unions and pension funds must be implemented and given strength to disabled people who do not have such rights elsewhere. A career, a union, and a disabled person need to be developed. However, by permission of the president: ▪ If possible, waiting for a home would make it easier to make room for changes because of disability. In order for that to happen, a fund would have to be funded that could be applied. It would be most reasonable that such funds would be a work of cooperation between the state and rural society, where housing is also a cooperating project of these parties. It would also be natural for unions and pension funds to reach such projects. Most of the time, I wanted to bring in an introduction and how important a part of this is the plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u141	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct equal management of a labour market. The objective of the bill is that workers in the labour market will not be discriminated against, either directly or indirectly, on the basis of disability, impaired working ability, age, race, ethnic background, religion, philosophy, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness. This aims to counteract discrimination and to establish and maintain equal management in the labour market. To me, it is as important to contribute to the workforce as most people do in a labour market as it is considered to be one of the most important ways to prevent social isolation and poverty. However, the design of this bill has had some consequences, based on the information of Europe's ships since 2000. These directives do not formally depend on the European Economic Area Convention, but at the beginning of 2003, Iceland's government agreed that national legislation would adapt the content of its initiative to ensure a unique effort on the internal market within the region. At the same time, it is possible that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the European Commission of Social Affairs has made a rich requirement for legislation on the ban on discrimination on the basis of the factors above laws being made on the land. The bill was negotiated in close collaboration with the labour market organisation, but it was also requested references from a number of sources who are concerned with equality. Then, in February 2014, the bill took an open story on the Ministry's Web, where all who were invited to make comments about it. All comments received were reviewed and taken into account as indicated. The bill does not address different treatments of individuals in the labour market on the basis of a citizen's or a stateless state, nor does it affect the standards of the law on foreigners or the legal rights of foreigners. It is important to note that there are still certain age conditions associated with pension rights in pension funds and that the bill does not apply to public social systems, such as the social security system, rural social services, the unemployment insurance system and the maternity-abundance system. The bill makes a special provision for expositing, which includes both the definitions of equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, e.g. direct and indirect discrimination, harassment, and pay conditions. In addition, the words for study of life, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, and sexual awareness are presented. I am well aware that the last two major developments have been taking place in the last eight years, but an agreement was made to explain what is suggested in the bill. So I leave the Senate to discuss their subject in more detail. The reasons for discrimination differ in some respects. In general, religion, belief, belief, sexual orientation, and sexual awareness are factors that are not necessarily easy to identify. What you might expect to have in common with these factors is that they generally have no business skills of individuals. There is a risk that these factors may lead to a person's not normally enjoying themselves at work because of negative stereotypes, which can be attributed to them regardless of the individual functioning of the individual. However, age, disability, and disability are factors that may generally affect the individual's ability to perform certain tasks and that of others. Nevertheless, the same individuals may not be given the same opportunities as others to perform tasks that are appropriate solely because of their negative norms related to age, disability, or functional impairment rather than to their partner's individual working skills. Is this bill intended to prevent such discrimination? I'm not going to discuss the reasons that the bill is about, but it gives them a fine report. However, I would like to point out that the regulations of the bill involved in different treatments on the basis of age in a domestic labour market will not be valid until July 1, 2019. This is because the workers of the labour market need to work at the age-related rules of agreements, including age-related retirement rules, and make changes in accordance with the requirements of the bill if necessary. There is a special obligation to prohibit discrimination in the job and at the time of recruitment, but this includes work conditions and other employees' remuneration. Furthermore, there is a special requirement for the prohibition against discrimination in terms of pay and other remuneration, while these regulations have a pattern in a material comparable set of laws on equal status and equal rights between women and men. There is then a special provision in which employers should take appropriate measures, if needed in a particular case, to make it possible for disabled persons or persons with impaired skills to have access to and participate in jobs, to enjoy progress in the job or to be trained, as if these measures were not too burdensome for the job driver. The bill allows for certain abnormalities from the workforce's equal treatment principle regardless of race, nationality, religion, alive, disability, age, gender, or awareness due to occupational or objective factors that may justify different treatments to certain relevant criteria. This includes the requirement that such activities have legitimate purpose and do not go beyond what is necessary. An example of such cases is the most appropriate requirement for a person to perform various tasks, such as police work or fire jobs. Another important point to consider is that a causal relationship must be between the differences considered by the individual and the specified factors. Thus, it has to be expected that employers, in the strength of their administrative rights, can proceed with a variety of activities that affect employees without having discrimination as per the bill. In addition, most of the factors involved in the bill can be that it is not always possible to believe that a professional driver is aware of them as to his employees. Must therefore be expected that in such cases there would be no discrimination in the sense of the bill. The bill presents the same rule of evidence as found in law on equal status and male and female rights. Thus, the likelihood that discrimination according to the criteria of the bill should be determined by the person considered to have discrimination shows that the reasons for the underlying treatment are not related to any of the factors listed by the bill. The bill is aimed at working against discrimination and developing and maintaining the equal treatment of individuals in the labour market regardless of race, nationality, religion, survival, disability, age, gender, or sexual awareness. It is therefore intended that public and commercial organisations should apply both to the general labour market so that decisions about the rights and duties of the labour market should always be made to respect the principles of equal management, even if different treatments are allowed in certain exceptional circumstances. In this way, the bill suggests that for the first time there will be an increased legal protection for those persons who consider themselves to be discriminated against in a labour market on the basis of reasons other than sex. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to the highest level. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u142	Madam President. In fact, equal law, which is very good, seems to be setting laws on equal treatment. But I cannot see how to enforce them properly. It's a good goal, but how do you think it's the highest? Ministers to ensure that goals will be met? Will there be an increase in money to an equal rights agency to handle these projects or just to increase the number of jobs without capitalizing up? When I looked through a financial program, I found it hard to see whether my money was being increased to an equal rights firm or not. Does a minister believe that the workforce, attitudes, and so forth can be changed simply by setting laws or by any other procedure?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u143	Madam President. Thanks for the inquiry. An additional amount of money is expected for an even-house to do its part in the cause of this bill. However, it should be noted that there is a guarantee of other employment options, such as the role of trade unions when it is thought that employees were violated on the basis of the law. Of course, unions may also be involved on behalf of employees in due time. I believe that in the legal environment that we have in the labour market and therefore in addition to the role of an Associator in this case, we have enough resources to seek justice, as is experienced in a labour market, when there is an ideologies involved in the rights of employees, and that the work of an equal office is sufficiently financed to carry out its role in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u144	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd also like to mention that in 2. The bill is a life span specifically referred to as one of the factors that cannot be distinguished. According to the bill, however, their taking of a measure of discrimination is delayed to July 1st, 2019. The report shows that this is being done so that other laws and regulations can be reviewed and made changes in them in order to meet the requirements. I'm curious to know if it would mean disintegrating the issue of the Regulation on admission into high school that limits the tremendous opportunity of those over 25 years of age to pursue high school education. That would be wishful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u145	Madam President. I thank the senator for this question. The premise is given primarily so that workers of the labour market can review collective agreements containing various regulations that face potential discrimination based on age, e.g. The age - related retirement, as well as the same. This delay is simply granted in view of the fact that a collective agreement is valid until the end of 2018, in order to provide sufficient time to complete the revision or implementation of a new labour agreement, and a review of the current labour agreements in accordance with these guidelines. As for the ratings of high school intake, it is to answer that the bill reaches the work market rather than the education system. It does not deal with that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u146	Madam President. I hereby recommend an overall legislation on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background. Is this in accordance with the government's declaration of policy, which stipulates that equality in a broad sense is an integral part of a just and reasonable society. It also says that Iceland should be desirable for all who wish to participate in building an Icelandic community for the future. Human rights, equal opportunities, variety, freedom, and responsibility, along with respect for differing opinions, would be solidly foundationed. Furthermore, it is stated that it is easier for immigrants to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society. The bill suggests that in Icelandic legislation the principle of equal care for individuals regardless of race and ethnic background is laid down in all areas of the community outside the labour market. It is not expected that the bill will apply for equal management in a labour market where I will provide along with this bill and have already measured a specific bill there. In order to ensure equal treatment of people in Icelandic society, the bill suggests that discrimination on the grounds of race or nationality, whether direct or indirect, is prohibited. By a clear ban on discrimination, the majority of the people in Icelandic society are considered to be active, irrespective of race and nationality, as well as to prevent social isolation of individuals for the same reason. The bill is also intended to be a factor in preventing racial opinions from taking place here. Must be considered by the law as new, although other laws of domestic law are also designed to ensure equal treatment in certain areas of society, including 65.g. The Constitution, and certain aspects of the general penal code and administrative law. Furthermore, the Icelandic government has validated international treaties designed to promote equal treatment in society, which includes the European Convention of Human Rights, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural Rights, and Europe's Social Convention. This includes social protection requirements, including social security and health services, social status, education and access to or dispensing products as well as services. The bill is also intended to apply for housing available for the general public. The regulations of the bill are not expected to apply to family and/or private business. Among other things, social quality in the bill involves the opportunity to enjoy certain goods on the public or private bodies, such as access to areas intended for the public, whether within the doors or outside, where, for example, you can enjoy free time or attend cultural and artistic events. This also refers to a discount or offer that has access to such locations or events. It is noted that the above applies to all locations intended for the general public, whether it is a public place or a private place, but public space is sometimes referred to in this context. Furthermore, there is public transportation, subsidized meals in schools as well as high school expenses. The bill also suggests that racial and national discrimination guidelines are considered to be discrimination in the sense of the bill and thus prohibited. The same is true of harassment when connected with race or ethnic background. In the bill it is expected that specific temporary measures will be permitted to improve the status of individuals who are in a certain area due to race or ethnic background. The bill does not affect the different treatments used on the basis of a citizen's or statelessness, such as on the basis of law No. 80/2016, for foreigners, with subsequent changes, and for law No. 97/2002, the job rights of foreigners, with subsequent changes. It is not expected that if treatment is based solely on the individual subject's subject's subject's subject, this value will not be appropriate. However, if the treatment is based on the race or ethnic background, it is assumed that the standards of the bill will be valid and thus protected according to their national standards. It is assumed that management and administration according to the bill are the same as on the basis of law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men. Therefore, the minister of equal rights will take over the affairs of this bill, and the government will be required by the Supreme Court to perform it by law. In addition, if it is thought that the law has been violated and is assumed to be the same as the right of women and men, it is expected that the rights of men would be the same as the same. The bill was conducted according to the Council Directive 2000/43/EC of 29 June, on the implementation of the principle of equal therapy regardless of race or nationality in terms of the rights and duties of an outside labour market. Since the Directive is not a formal part of the European Economic Area Convention, it is not really introduced into Icelandic, but it is covered by a bill that provides material harmony in Icelandic rights and rights in the European Union on the basis of the Directive. In accordance with the approved Iceland Government from January 2003 and the standard document sent to the EFTA office in February 2003, which announced that Icelandic legislation would be legalized to the directive's content to ensure unique effort on the internal market. It should also be noted that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the National Committee of Social Affairs in Europe require rich governmental legislation on the ban on discrimination on grounds of race and ethnic background. Furthermore, the North countries and most of Europe have developed a directive or reflected its contents in their national rights. Thus, Iceland has become a major submerge of other Western countries when it comes to protecting individuals from discrimination. A respectable president. The bill suggests that people of a foreign background experience prejudice and discrimination in everyday life here on earth. In addition, the bill is giving for the first time here on the country of individuals who feel that they are discriminated against on the grounds of race or ethnic background outside the labour market, authorized to seek their right to a judicial committee in the administrations. Thus the bill is designed to promote greater equality in the community. These views have been heard about regulations 65th. The constitution should be considered sufficient to ensure the accuracy of the board. It is true that, at least in part, there is equal rights, but it is also important to look for international comparisons in Iceland are reduced when dealing with immigrants, where there is no such discrimination legislation. To date, Iceland is far from here on a pair with the rest of the North countries in terms of the so-called MIPX standard that measures how hostile countries are to immigrants. Sweden is there first, but Iceland is in 23rd place, along with the Turks, Hungarians, and Romanians. Is it also proper to bear in mind that surveys show that immigrants in this country experience certain prejudices and discriminations to be handled by the law of law? Madam President. I have now explained the fundamental factors of the bill and allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u147	Madam President. Clearly, this bill is co-registered with the bill discussed earlier on equal treatment at the labour market. It forbids discrimination based on race, ethnic background, faith, philosophy, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, or gender; but in this bill that turns to society everything, only efforts to overcome racial and national discrimination are tried. Why is faith, interest in life, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness not discussed in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u148	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Although this is not a natural induction in which these directives are not under the category of the European Economic Area, Icelandic legislation is still being legalized into the content of the specific directives. It explains the difference between this and a directive in terms of the labour market, such as the driving force. A senator rightly points out, with considerably greater appeal than this bill. That's just the other explanation. These orders are being looked to and to maintain harmony in Icelandic legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u149	Madam President. I wondered this because before I heard it, I asked the highest question. Ministers of high school and 25 years of rule, and he rightly said that the work market was out of line. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider this to be a certain age difference in society, that those over 25 are not allowed to pursue high school education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u150	Madam President. Of course, that cannot be denied. The short answer is yes. This, of course, involves discrimination on the basis of age. The particular issue does not fall, as mentioned earlier, under the topic of the bills discussed here, but there is, of course, something that is right when the council considers whether they want it as a future arrangement or not. Hence, at one time material evidence and economic reasoning were presented in the educational system. Of course, there is also strong evidence against this discrimination, an equation of education. It's the Senate's deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u151	Madam President. I'd like to learn a little bit. I'm pretty happy with what's pronounced here. I'd like to ask you about 1 1 1. and the ad show. In 2012 there was an advertisement at Station 2, where Pétur Jóhann Sigfússon made fun of the Asians and raised a heated dispute. I don't know if it's the highest. Minister remembers that character, Tom. For simplicity, I can ask: If this were an advertisement with Lainda's Laddi, published today, would she fall under this, and could the person publishing the advertisement expect to be picked up on the carpet?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u152	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's pleasant inquiries. Now, the courts must decide such a thing, if this bill be by law, but, yes, I would expect the elephant to be involved, and the advertisement would not be particularly comfortable with this law. Of course, the main purpose is not to impress people on the basis of their ethnic background, race, nor is it to have disparaging and wrong standards of people on the basis of advertising and other products. I would.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u153	Madam President. Then I'd like to take it a little further and ask about the comedians in general now that this country has become quite popular. We used to be, for example. with Ricky Gervais the other day. Is there any way he could violate something here? Now I'm just asking for information, I'm not criticizing anything. I'd like to know if comedians in general can violate this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u154	Madam President. Yeah, I guess so. It is often said that the Humor is being eliminated by a process of discrimination. But the main purpose is that the origin of the joke is not some sanctum on the grounds of ethnic or racial background in a disparaging way. This occurs in many parts of the community. I don't know if we're spreading Hafnarfjörður by this. At the very least, it is vital that we look to that fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u155	Madam President. I'd like to start by adding my interpretation in the light of the question presented here, whether or not it applies to advertisements. It is my opinion that a comedian who is an artist who is not advertising a product but simply to pull things apart and together in ridicule, as they would like to, falls under this law. Someone might disagree with me, but I wouldn't interpret it that way. I come up here to celebrate this bill and, actually, the bill that was offered earlier. They are called in an obvious way. We've been under construction stress that Iceland will be a country that's open to all and kind to all who want to come here. I think both of these law columns are a good way to do that. V.E.G. A minister named the MIPex scale, which I and others have sometimes used in this comparison in which Canada and Sweden are at the top and Iceland are not too high at all. But one of the main factors that subtract Iceland from the comparisons based on certain legislation questions is the chapter on the prohibition against discrimination. That category includes Canada at the top of 92 points, the United States in second place with 90, then Bulgarians with 89, Portugal, United Kingdom, Sweden - I'm not reading the whole list because I'm not sure I'm going to last time for Iceland in this comparison. Iceland is simply at the bottom of this list with 5 points of 100. The reason Iceland's brutal score in this international comparison is that a typical question on this list is exactly: Does the universal law prohibit discrimination based on origin and race on discrimination in the school system? We don't. We don't even have such legislation. Iceland is one of the few countries in Western countries with no collective legislation on equal treatments regardless of racial or ethnic background, whether in the general labour market or in the community. Well, that's a good thing to do. I really hope this bill goes on. Of course, that does not go at all at all far. Yet, you might feel that, as always when people introduce certain rights and imagine things that will now be prohibited, society will be turned upside down. But if the question list I aim to consider seems to me to ignore just less than 50% of the points asked for there. As noted, the bill takes only to equal care regardless of race or nationality. Many comparable bills in other lands also address discrimination on the basis of beliefs or beliefs of life, or even outright ethnicity, state of state. I think it's a good start. Although there is much time, it may be as if Iceland were the only land in Western Europe that had not legalized the equal positions of men and women but that we were now suggesting that such laws be recorded. So this is a big moment. I know this bill has been being done in the Ministry for a long time. There is no need to decorate with stolen feathers in that material. But again and again, I want to rejoice that this matter has come to pass. I support it wholeheartedly and hope that it will succeed at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. Many interesting things appeared there, and lots of things I didn't know about; actually, they don't need much wisdom to do so when it comes to me. But about this list as a dog. A senator came into, where Iceland is at the bottom when it comes to these related matters, I find it interesting to hear about them. I agree with what. Senator, I'm very pleased and thank you very much. Minister for measuring this bill. But I cut to the ear. A senator spoke of a 50% box when it came to international art with this bill. I agree with what. A senator says it's very good to take the first step in this. Now, it's a bill that's going to go through the Senate treatments, to the General and Education Committee, if I have just noticed, where it is. A senator sits, and would not surprise me that he would receive support there for various other representatives if he thought it right to make changes in the bill that went further in the direction he spoke of here. Hv. A senator spoke of discrimination in matters of belief, principles and address, etc. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he intends to suggest some of the changes in the bill so that it goes even farther than it already does and may even be in harmony with what he described best as a dog. A senator knows what's going on in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottharson Proppér's great inquiry. My answer to it is as follows: The matter will now go to the General and Education Committee for reviews. I think it matters a lot to me what these reviews look like, comments from the European Human Rights Association that have worked in Iceland and that, in some cases, help with the answers to the related questions arts - I know, for example, that the National Human Rights Office of Iceland has answered them about the MIPX scale. Then I must say that I will most likely be pragmatistic on my position in the way that I strongly emphasize that this law section will exist and become part of Icelandic legislation; I'm adding more weight to it than it would immediately in the form that would throw us up some list normally appropriate. Certainly a senator hears what my attitude on that subject would be and how I would likely want to see these matters myself. I see nothing at all, therefore, that this book of laws also resorted to discrimination on the basis of faith and study of life, while my first proposal is to emphasize that the matter will be resolved. If there's been a certain criticismal process so far and a certain consultation process in the Ministry, I think there's some evidence that it's a good way to get it out of this picture and then look for an expansion, but I will, of course, listen to the comments of the agencies that I make.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. That was good. That was smart. I think that in all matters, it is very good to listen to what the reporters say. I'm not gonna wave in here another matter of my beastly nature, especially where it would be good to listen when the reviews are almost all in one way. You see, I'm not here to try to be boring. I'm really interested in this case and the information that came out of the question. Senator. I got it. I got it. A senator for, in his duties at the General and Education Committee, to work on it, even get help from someone there, and submit some adjustments to the case when it comes for further payment at the Congress Hall. So the case that it is now is a fixed floor. There is no danger, then, except that it will be approved. However, adjustments could be made that would go even further in that direction. A senator has described here quite well, how best to be. Even if the suggestions were to be taken, we would always be using the bill as it is now. Excuse me. I'm getting the virus from the highest level. A minister was going to fight here, whether it was earlier today or yesterday, when time went by in this hall was odd. But, yeah, I'm just gonna end up with this. I got it. I got it. A senator to make such adjustments. In any case, the bill will always pass in order to be dropped. I'd be interested to vote for such a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's great answer and appeal. It is good to know his position on these matters, both for work now and for the future. So it's something you can use. All I'm saying in these topics is this: The bill is somehow based on a directive that is becoming 17 years old. If I believe there's a greater chance that the bill will go on as it should, I'd rather have it happen than we'd wait another 17 years to get some law column. Of course, new discrimination factors add to new questions, new concerns. Some may feel that they need to give back a different review between discussions, etc. That's the question marks I'm putting. But I think that me and what. A senator does not disagree about how we would like to see this. It's just a question of what the most correct first step is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u160	A respectable president. Now it's time to discuss a bill of the same salary, this document here. There, however, only half the story is told because this document is to be introduced here, the Icelandic standard No. 85, of the same pay contract, of a document that we don't have expected, because I have the only copy of the Senate library, and I don't intend to give it up. Madam President. So I'm directed to the council's office that there will be a release by tomorrow's release and that we senators may expect to receive a copy of Icelandic standard No. 85 are involved in the further discussion of this matter so that we can take an informed stand on that subject. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u161	A respectable president. I want to say something with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who says that I find it very painful to enter the discussion without having this standard read. But since we are now humble people in all respects, we will not necessarily say contrary to the fact that it will be done. But it would have been more professional, less willing, if we'd had it in our hands. I'd like to direct it to the president if it can't be arranged so that the standard is waiting for us in our chambers when we get to work tomorrow and continue working. Besides, I think it's a little bit sad how thin the Ministry class is set and the room is in many respects about one of the big things at present. Governments. I have to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u162	The president has accepted this request, and it is presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u163	A respectable president. It is with considerable satisfaction that I recommend a bill for a change in the law of equal positions and male and female equal rights so that the company and organisations, where 25 or more employees usually work on a yearly basis, will receive equally pay. The Declaration of the Government stipulates that equality in a broad sense is an integral part of a just and reasonable society and therefore a heavy level of equality in the labour market. It also specifically states that enterprises and institutions with 25 or more employees will receive equally pay. Why is this bill presented? Because there is still a sexual difference in labour markets, despite the long - term practice of women's employment and despite the ban on women and men to pay different wages for the same or similar jobs, as early as 1961, with a sentence on gender balance. Iceland has a higher level of sex equality in many ways. We can be proud of that success, and we can be proud of it, for it is in Iceland as a guide in that language. Nevertheless, it is true that in our society there is still no equality in every aspect of our lives. This is especially true for the labour market, but a number of surveys and studies demonstrate a sustained sexual balance that is in general adverse circumstances for women. Is that true despite the fact that there has been a general law of equality, despite the commitment of the government on the basis of international covenants and in spite of government efforts to promote equality? Therefore, it is necessary to promote the remuneration of the sex by equally pay-authorization on the basis of legislation. Semi-employment is a work position management tool to achieve pay conditions, in order to achieve the clear desire of the legislatator to pay the same amount of pay for the same job. This benefit to the employee and the fundamental issue that employees will not be discriminated against on the basis of sex simply outweighs the fact that the bill will certainly have some burdensome effect for business and institutions. According to the bill, enterprises and organisations with 25 or more employees will be obliged to receive a contract of professional organisations, with the exception of the assessment of the company's equal pay system or the Agency's pay system and the implementation of the standard IST 85, which is generally referred to as the equal salary standard. At the same time, it is recommended that the labour market partners be hired to negotiate in collective agreements that the assessment of the company's labour system and institutions may be conducted by 25-999 employees with a confirmation of stakeholders, such as trade unions. Thus, if a contract between the labour market parties is reached, the workforce of this size is expected to have the choice of which assessment method they are going to take, i.e. Whether to seek after certification from a professional authority or confirmation from a stakeholder. This is a warrant. The principle remains that all workplaces with 25 or more employees receive equally pay due to certification by a professional official. Workplaces with less than 25 employees will, of course, be permitted to obtain equally paid employment on the basis of the current salary standard, but they will not be obliged to do so. The law is expected to go into effect by next year. It has been encouraged to give companies and institutions space to meet the requirements set out on them by the bill, and it suggests that the obligation to be introduced in increments; to start most of the companies and institutions, and before 2018, the workplace with 250 or more employees should be won at the end of 2019 a year or at the end of the year, the workplaces will have to be prepared to earn as much pay as that of the company and institutions at the end of the 2020. So, remember, the firms will have a bit more than a quarter of a lead-in period since the law's taking effect. At the same time, it may seem that by means of this arrangement the experience of larger workers will benefit from the smaller ones that follow. To ensure the future objective of the bill, it is further suggested that companies and organizations reimburse equally every three years. It is assumed that an even-right living room will provide work areas that have won the equally pay form of a professional official's contract in particular as a reward for identifying it. If, on the basis of established stakeholders, such as trade unions, a equally paid contract is given to the individual, it is expected that an economist will be given the same salary theory for identifying. This means that the benefits for companies and institutions to be able to inform them about employees as well as others within that state of pay conditions. At the same time, it contributes to a strong competition for qualified workers. It is then suggested that the labour market organisations be assigned to supervise the application of 25 or more employees to receive the same salary work as that being recycled every three years. It is expected that the implementation of the Commission will be further carried out in a manner that has agreed with the labour market organisation. If the workplace does not earn the same pay or renew it within its separation, it is proposed that the labour market organisation can report it to an equal company. In this case, an equal room can provide advice for work positions on improvement within the appropriate delay of the day's execution. This may include providing information on the status of the company and providing data, providing a time-to-date work programme on how the workplace intends to meet the requirements of the equally paid standard. If the workplace does not react to such instructions, an equal office has a warrant for day - to - day stress. A day-to-day decision can be reported to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. A respectable president. Semi-employment is a management tool to establish and maintain the remuneration of gender at work, but it will also be useful in ensuring a wider level of pay, such as for immigrants. Semi-employment is designed to confirm that a financial decision is guided by a grammatical view. It is important to keep it in place that, of course, the workplace will be able to reward employees and evaluate personal aspects of pay. On the other hand, there is a need for reasoning. It will continue to be expected that employers will be completely allowed to look at the individual factors or the job's specific skills in the pay decision. Of course, there will be no change. Workplaces will have full freedom to do so. On the other hand, the uninvolved requirement is based on objective views of pay decisions that do not involve direct or indirect sexual discrimination. A respectable president. I've now explained the basics of the bill. Iceland has been on the lead in equality, and our ambition is to continue the weather. As evidence of Iceland's leadership in equality, we are not afraid to follow new paths and seek all ways to ensure equality with the sexes. Sexual pay differences have been observed in Iceland for way too long. Here is a tool that has been shown to be effective in this battle against sexual pay and will promote the level of pay of the sex. After this discussion, I allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u164	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Now there is a law in this country that is supposed to ensure equal pay of men and women, yet we still have the sex - related difference in pay. Perhaps the ultimate route. The minister here proposes to be legally established, to use the equal pay position, to make sure that it is followed by law. I have a positive attitude toward it and will examine it all with a positive attitude. However, this bill does not have a unity within the council. I just want to ask the highest. While a minister may not be concerned that he is delivering a bill specifically spoken of in the government covenant, members have said that they are not going to support and that this is not a major part, at least not within the administration, for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u165	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The short answer is no, I'm not worried about that. I believe that on this matter there is widespread support at the council, and although it is certainly true that the individual members of the administrative body have raised doubts, I have no doubt that the bill has extensive support, both within the ranks of the government and just as in the order of the less part of the council. I hope that this will result in widespread reconciliation, which I believe is a very important development step to take, a step we should not be afraid to step and could be the way to increase the pay level of sex.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u166	Madam President. Is it not an obvious sign of government cooperation when such an important issue, stressed by the election campaign, finds its way into the Declaration of Policy, is it not supported by members of Congress, others in the government? Is that not an obvious sign of weakness? I want to pray to the highest. Minister to answer that. For example, if the bill falls or fails to succeed, would it not be another way for the workers to take the matter into account and say: "If the council is not able to handle it, then are we going to negotiate in this way? ' Is it not also in many ways normal the channel for such a matter, that it is negotiated in a labour market to use this tool to ensure that the law is fulfilled? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u167	Madam President. Now, I'm not going to state the final position of the senators who tore up their doubts, as I mentioned earlier, but as I said, I trust that on this matter there may be an extensive controversation. I do not consider that to be a sign of government cooperation, although individual senators may have different beliefs in the way selected here. With regard to the methodology selected here, it is quite right. A senator noted that such cases are often negotiated in a job market. This is actually a certain order of events reversed, i.e. The lawgiver takes the initiative in the case, but he gives the warrant on the basis of the law. The opposite is usually reversed. But there are countless examples. I present as an example a law on sexuality in the management of a partner who has proved to have worked effectively and who would never have been different from the intervention of the lawgiver. I believe this is also the case, and although this issue should be located in a labour market, this step would never have been taken unless the lawgiver had expressed this will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u168	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the words of others. Senators about the situation, it is bad not to have access to it in order to examine it and identify what is missing or something else. I'd like to ask you about that number, 25 or more. There is no mention of how much companies they can reach out for, but with this possibly some subsidence or charge for companies that are up to this point recruiting to have 25 or more employees? This could include a measure of relief for them to move on to the number of employees, for then the equation would have to apply. Does not necessarily cover equal positions within gender, i.e. that one man has the same salary as another man or woman has the same salary as another? Does this apply to workplaces where only one sex operates? Could this even prevent the opposite sex from being employed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u169	Madam President. I've got some questions right here. Thank you. A senator for them. Would it scare a company from the council? No, that's a big question. We have considered the advantages this may include in the enterprise. It wouldn't be a business if these laws were to dissipate companies from the recruitment of additional employees. What does this reach a large part of the labour market? It's probably about that. 1400 companies and organisations and about 70% workers in the labour market, so these are related to the largest part of the labour market. Now came out of my head a final question. Senator. I'll just get to her in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u170	A respectable president. The question was, Did this not guarantee that it would provide equal positions in a generation? In addition, is there a difference in the current pay range? I'd like to know if this could lead to the presentation of salary and markets in the job ad, as happens sometimes in other parts of the North countries, as far as I know. When advertised according to the vacancy you will find information on the salary that the vacancy provides. If the applicant comes into the company and asks for a raise in pay, it must be obvious that the employer simply says: "No, we'd be breaking our equally pay policy if we paid you so much. Then you could be ahead of the question of pay raise and put the pay information in the job advertisement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u171	Madam President. The methodology of the vacancy actually builds that the enterprises are simply an equal pay system, a remuneration system that builds them on ethical reasons for the basis of pay. Each job is assessed regardless of the employee involved and then defined in advance the criteria that the company handles by the way it rewards for performance, how it rewards the working years, education, responsibility, etc., for any factor that the company chooses especially to pay for. In this way the remuneration within the company can be identified and, to what extent, these objective reasons explain the salary distribution of the company. This is, of course, true whether it is based on gender, nationality, or other factors that are not considered critical. It does not matter in itself whether there is only one sex in the company, etc., it controls the redistribution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u172	Madam President. I'd like to address any concerns raised in the discussion about President's conference board on the situation that is behind the equally paid witness. The standards created by Iceland's Standard Council are now not available to the public unless the money and the local market is obtained are not involved. It must be amazing to expect the Council to agree with the law without the discovery of exactly what is being agreed upon. It was shown in an article published in the female newspaper of April 12 that the Ministry of Health answered a request for the publication of the Standards in the following way, with the permission of the president: ▪ Iceland's Council published the standard IST 85:2012, and conditions determined all rights about it. The official notes: "Unless the written permission of the publisher is allowed to reprint or copy this standard in any way, mechanical or electronic, such as photocopying, recording, or any other way that is known or will be subsequently invented, or shared in an electronic database. Therefore, the Ministry cannot publish the post, but it should be noted that it can be purchased at Iceland's Standard Council. How does it rhyme with ideologies? Minister to open transparency in the administration board required in the core policy of pleased to establish laws based on regulations that will not be made to the public? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u173	Madam President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. It is true, in a sense, that there is no official use. It is careful to see if there is any improvement, but this methodology was chosen at the time because this is international methodology. This means that we have provided a standard that can be used in other countries on the same basis. The company has mainly the technical description of the requirements of the equally pay system to develop and work accordingly. I don't think this is supposed to be a big challenge. While it would certainly be better for the standard to be open, this, of course, is an arrangement of such standards. I think it's worth more in the context of the fact that this standard can easily be applied to other countries. Thus, we can be a guide in a particular way to other lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u174	Madam President. I would like to know if this bill had a discussion to consider other subversive possibilities for equally pay-emission, if there were any observations as to the possibility of finding a more transparent way of doing this. Then I'd like to ask, because I don't really know what the consequences could possibly be, and I hope to the highest. Ministers can explain to me how it would be handled if Iceland's Standard Council decided to change the location. Has Iceland's Standard Council got room for that, e.g.? Have the arrangements been made to observe them and to respond if they did? I'm trying to figure out what the consequences will be if they're not accessible, what the consequences could be for the whole law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u175	Madam President. With regard to the previous question. The senator as to whether other methods were possible, there might be a doubt about it because this is a pioneer's work. This standard is unique. We're following a whole new trail, and this methodology is, of course, built here on land. For this very reason, the methodology was chosen to use quality standards to ensure specific efficiency in practice and also to transfer these to other countries if there is any interest, so this is the chosen path. I think it's very good, and we have a very powerful, good hand. As to the possibility of changing the standards of Iceland, it is simply arranged that the Standard Council is certainly the owner of the standard, but the Ministry of Health is once again owner and responsible for the demands made in it. So the post cannot be changed without the Department's access.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u176	A respectable president. I may wish to make the highest request. Even if I'm not going to go as far as the hottest supporters of the case and force him to take the Viking party with me, as happened in New York the other day. Like what? Harðardóttir It is true that husband and wife are paid equal wages, but that law has not been followed. That is why we need laws like this to underscore other laws that are already in effect. I'd like to ask the minister, in my previous answer, if it were possible to trick the state into setting up a good example, not just by enforcing the situation at institutions, but by viewing the Council as a unit, and thus taking in a bifocal pay between advisers, by introducing the same amount of pay for the entire 11 Ministry in a single store.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u177	Madam President. I can't help thanking you. A senator answers, and especially not having to take the Viking party to celebrate it, with embarrassing moments of my life. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] To that end, it is quite right, as it were. A senator points out that we have had laws here since 1961 on the prohibition on sexual pay, but this has not been enough. Such standards are just the methodology to assess the same value of work that enables us to get farther into this discussion than simply to attach it to the same work. Of course, jobs in companies and institutions are very different, so it is very important to have the methodology that the standard provides. As far as the Board of Directors is concerned, it sets the stage for a good example, so it works in just as much pay as most of the departments are successful. Although it is true that when you look at each governance, this will eliminate only a sex-time amount of pay within it, we will still be able to live with a different pay religion between schemes worth considering how much it is when we get back into this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u178	A respectable president. In this later answer, I'd like to ask the minister two questions. In his address, he said that this was a method that had been shown to be effective. The changes presented here are referred to as a result of a reduction in sexual pay. Simply put, I would like to ask, " How much is it estimated that sex - based differences will be reduced in percent, where percentages are used to explain gender amounts of pay? ' Second, I would like to ask, " How many of my companies today are making legal laws and whether there is a chance that we might be allowed to get into an elephant shoes, such as when an electronic ID was introduced and at the same time be placed in the hands of a private resident in a town that could make a lot of money during the necessary ministry? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u179	Madam President. I'm still thanking you again. I don't have a precise number on how many companies have worked on the induction or informative scientific methodology. They consider dozens of people who have worked in the spirit of the standard to be equally paid. [[Up front.]] A variety of standards, VR, PCC and a similar but not completely valid. I believe, however, that there are probably somewhere between 10 and 15 organizations, or businesses that have come far along the basis of a position, so that I know about them. In terms of the experience with the electronic documents referred to, this requires professional certication. Of course, a lot of people can do and take care of this. [[The president calls.]] Today there are probably two people who are likely to, but I expect that, in view of the number of companies and institutions underneath, they will be considerably higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u180	Madam President. It's kind of possible to wish the highest. Minister and government congratulations on this matter because it does not much remember that it is the first independent bill from this government, and it does not in itself have a legal obligation to submit. If we subtract from such things, such as financial plans or such, we have not been able to get much out of this government and perhaps understandably say others, it is only 100 days old or so. But this is certainly a matter of initiative from the highest level. A government, and it can be congratulated on her, worse if it could have been. True, the thought behind it is not that the invention of present administration parties or the restorations that specifically leaped on the wagon for the elections to proclaim such a remuneration. It may be said that men haven't been high before, but it's a long way to go, as I know. to the maximum. A minister and prominent authority knows best, for this again takes place in the mid - 1st century in a workforce. Then, it was the government of the season of 2009's election,2013, who actually pushed this off and started a job and confirmed the standard on which it should be built. So it's an older basis. But the current government and the highest. Ministers have taken this up on their arms and presented the matter. They should be welcomed, especially because there has been some disturbance in the extraordinary rear forces in the government camps and ministers have not let it out of their way. There is no question about it: Whatever the world's balance record, we face offenses, emotions, and, in fact, completely disturbing human rights violations about, e.g. would be expected with a dose of ritonavir. It does not change that the law has been banned, as it is likely, for some 40 years, if not more than that. I wouldn't be surprised if it came into the social legislation at some point in 1970, to specifically say that women and men had the same salary for similar jobs. The difference, however, is a fact. Every survey and study conducted has always shown the same results in adverse women, ranging from 5 to 15%, but each result has been on that side. This cannot be unfortunate statistical coincidence, that is, the reality behind it. It takes the highest. Minister to speak to e.g. The minister of justice, who has insurmountable doubts in mind that there is something called a sexual difference in pay. Perhaps the government needs to have a team and a course for itself and its duty in and we're going to take this bill for a discussion. Despite decades of law ban, why is this going so bad? Of course, that is because the problem is very deep. It lies in the centuries and millenniums of a father's empire. This, of course, is a form of creation that is not far from perfect human rights and equality in this regard. Because it's so deep, it has to be warned that it's some kind of patent solution. I think it's very dangerous as soon as we're happy to make too much sense that this is going to sweep the problem out of the table. So I'd like to warn you very strongly. I believe, however, that this may be a good device and may be useful along with others. Perhaps I feel a little bit lacking in this and in the article and in the language of the parts. What else can support evolution in the direction we want? I haven't read the bill yet, but I don't see anything specifically covered, like... the potential interaction between equally-employment and employment assessments, that the work is also assessed. This is part of what happens in this, certainly if you go in the comparison, but rural groups have many and more people in recent years, e.g. Choose the way of making a thorough assessment of all their jobs, and surely significant results were made toward an increased level of remuneration. It can work both between the sexes and in general, like a single male. A speaker came in earlier in answer. Of course, the level of pay that is horizontally independent of gender must also be considered. I think if you succeed this could be a useful device, e.g. with employment assessments, but mostly by our being behind and guarding the most advanced noncommunicative device ever to be shared. What is it? There are transparent general labour agreements that hold. It is by far the most important means of not having sex and other types of pay rights, that all information is on board. That's the way it's supposed to be. Sadly, in recent years the work market chapters were in place, so certain areas in the workforce were completely different, inhibited private contracts, and even permissible. All problems were to be solved by the shaking of each employee to the director's knees and by asking for something that is not the method, which is not the way to eliminate sexual pay or other pay rights. There are transparent, general, strong collective agreements that are the most powerful weapon. This witness can be fine with them. Likewise, permanence and unscrupulous stitches depend on their main enemy's circumstances in this regard. It is also very important to remember that this, of course, does not interfere with the gender-based pay. This does not change the fact that women are in a position for medical personnel in the country, for play - school teachers in the country, for basic school teachers in the country. I wonder what the sex ratios are like when they're initialized. Have there been many Polish men walking around and mopping under our generals? No, I haven't run into them. That's a lot of women. This does not interfere in any way with the fact that there is also a deep - seated problem to be faced, that the sex - based difference is not even more permanent than the fact that whole professions become absolutely human women, and this results in the keeping of the salary. In fact, I think there's a lot more to be done if we had a reasonable time to talk about it, Mrs. President, as it was in the old days, when proper speeches could be held at the Council, there could be some things to do in that regard. I think, for example. that the birthworm language should be considered in this context. It's all agreeable. The conditions of the workforce, e.g. Much of it, I'm afraid, must stop commending the highest. It's kind of ambitious in that, unfortunately, it's just like that. There is no ambition at any time during a five - year financial program to get the roof from 500 to 600 yous. K., if there's any time, the minister may be able to inform about, but I haven't found it, just some step sometime. Not a word about extending or improving your birthworm, putting it on the floor so that you can get at least Minimum pay or increase the flexibility in taking so that some of the rights can be stored up to child-school and elementary school, etc. This is consistent; the situation in the work market and the environment in which we live our young children's families, etc. That's why I feel as soon as I repeat that there's a reason to take this matter well, I like the highest. Ministers have made it and held it through the government, it's as if the dancer would say that God nok and we'll have to take it to the ground when we discuss how likely it will be to some extent contrary to these issues. Generally, our biggest job market weaknesses, if we compare ourselves with nearby countries, are that the basic wage for moderate working hours is way too low in Iceland and the standard of living is way too much of a long day of work and overtime and so on. It's part of the problem. Who are more likely to pick it up and raise the purchase with a longer day of work and more overtime, etc.? As a result, we need to look at the root cause of the problem that lies deep in the centuries and millenniums of fathers' empires, as well as in certain fundamentals in the national retail and labour markets that have long separated us from, for example. The Norwegian states. In general, it has not been on the agenda that men, although 40 hours, can live decent lives with their day - to - day jobs, not shorter as people are talking about. So we still have things to do with these things. With regard to the bill and the rest of the material, I'd like to only mention the surveillance factor. I'm worried about him a little bit. I think he's a little loosed up. They get this testimony, they send it to an ELC, and they have a certificate that goes on for three years, but then what? How will people keep track of the reality of what was witnesses? Does an equal agency make a considerable amount of money to care for this surveillance? Is it in the budget? Wants the highest. A minister would be so kind as to inform him afterwards? Is there reason to prepare it for the tools, tools, and resources needed to make us reasonably believe that there will be some bit of this, and it will not be empty? It won't do the equal struggle in Iceland if it's gonna be weak, if it's kind of showy, if it's kind of a whitewash. This has to be for real. We need to make sure that we have considerable faith that this will be more than an embezzled card on the wall, that the company has received a equally paid witness. There is a danger, we know her history, that this will be mainly an excellent reform for the surveillance industry, a witness firm, a small standard production of equally pay, this will be a little bit acquitted/paste-to-one schemes: here my good one, see here, here, here, here, here, this is, 1st-36. Hey, y'all, y'all, y'all, you've got the same pay sign here. It can't be done. It must be added to the core to make the comparison and verify that the items needed are put in order to ensure that the company meets all the requirements. I don't want this to be a whitewash. The bride said this, and with them before, and with the nails I've struck, I'm glad to hear it, I'm not taking anything ashore with it. I would have liked to have it on the Senate committee I'm in to work on. We would have been extremely successful on a welfare committee if it had come, no doubt about it, but, of course, we rely on the top board and hope that it will do so. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I repeat congratulations to the highest level. Minister and Government for bringing in this bill. I'm not from the fact that it will prove to be the best thing that comes from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u181	Madam President. It's good to come in here new and talk a lot. That's why I'm glad we're here until midnight, but I'm gonna try to keep the speech as short as I can to let someone else get in. I'm going to begin by saying that I'm pleased to be a seated senator when this important justice is taken in place. I want a fine schoolmate of mine when I go back to college to get paid a fair price after I graduate. Equality is essential to a righteous society. All shall have equal opportunity to participate and influence in the community; for this we agree; otherwise society is not fair. The true virtue of humans is the ability to live together as equals. In fact, in Iceland it is illegal to violate equality in many things, but evidence indicates that discrimination on grounds of sex or other factors is illegal. In terms of all the more objective factors that are between employees, workers, hours, education, experience and ability, the average wage for women is considerably lower than that of men for the same occupation. Remuneration, which cannot be explained by any other than sex, is a fact in Iceland, although there is a debate over the magnitude of the difference. All surveys and studies performed on sex pay in this country have measured such differences between women. The latest observations suggest that gender-related differences in pay are at least 5.7% compared to the welfare department's figures. The following process is now being proposed: You get to do the same pay card. When the process is completed, it is informed whether an unexplained amount of pay is found or not. This gives him an opportunity to correct such a situation. As a result, he performs a concomitant token, e.g. A year's bills. There is not much difference between this and the demands on working environment, job security, and other activities that we take for granted. How many are involved? we can ask ourselves. According to the information that I found on the Haguems website quickly, there are a total of 16,578 paypayers in Iceland. There are 13,865 employees who have nine or fewer employees, about 84% of them in total. It may be reasonable to estimate that 25 employees or less earn a total of 90%. Therefore, this operation will only extend about 10% of its paypayers. Hence, it is not burdensome for most of the country's companies, as it is often claimed. Yet, that is an enormous issue of justice for many employees. In whole, there are about 188,300 employees in Iceland. These 84% of the payers can be found at 17% of all candidates. In this case, there are 4% payers with 50 or more employees. However, approximately 127,300 employees are provided for a total of 68%. The conclusion, then, is that this includes the few payers, i.e. about 10◯16%, but includes an enormous number of earnants, 68◯83%. Madam President. In fact, it is not only increasing equality in pay, it is also a demonstration in them. It's very important. When data are available and when data are symmetrical rather than asymmetrically, the market works better. In fact, it is often referred to as a marketing failure or not sufficiently effective in the market when information is asymmetrical, but in other words, it means that business partners have varying degrees of information about business practices. Therefore, I believe that the measures for transparency and equality to deal with the market failures these are of the good. It is often claimed that measures to increase equality are burdensome administrative decisions that are not right because they impair freedom, etc. When you're better at checking, it's not quite that simple. Such measures may be burdensome, but the challenge to protect ourselves is to note how burdensome it is for other individuals who do not experience equality fully because of discrimination. Actions such as validation may be possible. It may be burdensome for an enterprise because of the increased cost of performing such a witness, but it can hardly be as burdensome as it is for a person not to get the right amount for his work. Also, measures like these are needed to ensure equality not necessarily limit this so - called freedom or liberality. One of the main authors of liberalism, philosopher John Stuart Mill, said that equality and freedom would never be within society were not equal. The origins of liberalism are thus both freedom and equality. That means that people deserve equal respect as humans. In that sense, broad freedom is essential to treating people as equals. Freeness goes on to see that individuals must have the freedom to seek happiness on their own terms, to be their own masters, and to be the authors of their own lives. The basic meaning of freedom thinking is that you are free if you do not use force, either on the outside or on the inside, with some choice, and with the power to choose between. People enjoy that freedom when they have the power to do things and are free to do it. Freeness trusts in the individual and his ability to exercise self - control rather than the authority of a superior and his ability to control the individual. Freeness trusts a person to live his or her own life and actions as long as such is not affecting others. It also requires that government practices be above all reasonable doubts - and that there are public interests in the foregrounds. It is not justified that one should have authority over another only by free will. From this on, it can be concluded that liberalism does not allow discrimination on moral or otherwise. All of this I have mentioned here supports the claim that important equality measures such as these are in the spirit of the real liberalism. Thus, the next step in the struggle of liberality is undeniably an increase in equality. The right thing guarantees individuals the freedom to make full use of their powers and abilities, since freedom and equality meet midway.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u182	A respectable president. It is most enjoyable to stand in this hall discussing the most famous bill, the most famous law never submitted until they were finally put forward as a bill. This was discussed a great deal worldwide before the council discussed the matter, and here we are finally discussing a bill to legalize such a payoff. As mentioned earlier this evening, I am so eager to hand in to one copy of the Senate of the standard we are here to introduce, information that some would now consider necessary to discuss. I'm going to read here a little bit from him, I'm going to read from Section 4.3, on planning, subsection 4.3, on equal terms, on the President's permission: [[Up front.]] The device should define all jobs and install, implement and maintain procedures a. to determine the criteria to establish the general classification of work and to set the criteria based on the requirements of the work to the personnel; b. to categorize all jobs according to the above criteria so that they can group together the same or equally valuable jobs, c. to determine the salary and the selection for each job based on the defined criteria, d. to determine whether and how to reward individual and group factors. The enterprise should document and update this information. The company should ensure that the criteria are always objective and appropriate. This will result in a sub-section 4.31 of the equally used criteria. As the Senate hears, all of this is quite reasonable. It's just a quality system around how companies determine salary. I wondered, I thought of this when I heard an answer. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen to minister, she pointed to a cake I had not read that was on the inside of the coat at the moment, by permission of the president: Without the written permission of a publisher, do not reprint or copy this standard in any way, mechanical or electronic, such as photocopying, audiographing, or any other method known or later to be invented, or share the place in an electronic database. - Yes, it is. What was I doing? Did I just break the law, dear President? Or is it perhaps a bit Colombian that the General Assembly is using a bill as a material standard which we, according to the standards of use, must not be read aloud in the General Assembly chair? Is this really the situation? What? I wouldn't have figured it out until they pointed it out tonight. If I didn't even have, I'd be speechless. I directed to the President earlier tonight that each of us members would be provided with a copy of the standard, at which time it will cost you 10. K. ... atSecondSecondService. For the council, it's 630,000 bucks, now it's something. But because the Standard Council isn't quite connected with the public, I think the state has some element within the store, I wonder if it's not simply possible, as noted in earlier speeches, to open this standard. If we are legally establishing a standard for such a pay contract, can it not be accessible and beneficial? The rationale for a salary decision is the basic theme of the induction of equally-employment, that decisions are made so that there are no distinctions between people in the shelter of incorruption. Then I think it would be more difficult for me to believe that the Council and Minister would join us that this document would not be closed behind the Bank of Iceland's Standards. Some of the questions that arise when you read the situation have been discussed. The most important thing to do in a person after reading through it is that he will not eliminate gender pay. It will cause companies and institutions to have a limited size in their own small area of life to determine the salary of each company so that, on the basis of sex, there is no discrimination within the company. So I'll take an example here from the standards - and you, my senators - I'm sure you'd like to have your status in your hands and follow me, but you'll just have to believe me--is here an example of No. 3 about a construction company. In this business, people operate in seven areas, there are directors, managers, expert, adviser, carpenters, writers, and driver. You can imagine what a construction company with this staff composition could look like when it comes to gender. Without necessarily having some job market investigation behind what I imagine, I would think that the top song in this company was largely appointed men, but that the two writers were women, as is really the case, that they are at the lowest category of employment, since they do not seem to be responsible enough or have enough knowledge, etc. All these standards are set up to measure work in a just way. It often wants to be the core of a pay assessment system that does not surround the structure that exists in the company. Here, for example. One factor called responsibility for equipment, where the director gets a full ladder, eight points a total, while the carpenters using the equipment get only six. Admittedly, if you believe in the responsibilities of the chain, you may argue that the director is more responsible for the equipment than the carpenter can destroy it. It's the carpenter who can saw his finger by misuse, so that the responsibility on the floor is greater, I think, than for the man who decides every tenth year to buy a new band saw. However, this is a significant conclusion in this pay assessment system. It just so happens that this is also a conclusion that maintains the nobility in the company. This is a grammatic result developed in a sex system where the labour market is all stratified and where men are in places where their contributions are considered higher than women. That's very objective according to this standard. It's like the highest. A minister came in when he answered my answer earlier tonight when I asked if we could take all 11 of the Ministry, pull them together, and give them equally remuneration as one body, he said that we could do it in another round when each one of us was taken. The point is that there is a pay difference between recruitment that reflects a sex exchange market, reflecting the value of jobs in caring for less than money. This suggests that more than a portion of those caring for are women while men are more prominent among those who earn high incomes for dealing with money. This difference in salary in the community is also present in the budget. This will show the pay checks within the scheme, which vary whether or not is put on the job. Depending on whether governments trust in the dissatisfaction generated among the hired advisers when it is found that experts on the same shelf inside their Ministry often have a basic salary, which, if not hundreds of thousands of them, cuts on the fine schemes or the cheap ones. While it would be difficult to introduce a system over the 11 Ministry, imagine what it would be difficult to introduce a real equal pay system over society. The reward witness won't. It does so at 1,180 spots in society. Within each spot of these 1,180 enterprises, which have 25 or more employees will be equal, but they will not be equal, so that everyone inside the company will be convinced if the company is thus organized that, at once, the men in high-priced position and women in the low pay. We'll have 1,180 friends of equal wage in the community who get a label from an ELC that it's all right, and we'll continue to see in the world that there's equal equality in Iceland the most in the world, it's all in the world. That's the danger. While this is a good system for remuneration decisions, it may be too much for us to call it an equal pay system because it indicates that by ensuing it, we have committed sex pay. I'm not sure that this would have a major impact on the measured sex - income pay that appeared in surveys year after year. But time will likely tell. This has been mentioned earlier in a talk tonight, but I'd like to reflect on it as well. A company that has a range of 25-999 employees, which I imagine is the largest part of these 1,180 companies that are discussed with the bill, can get through the same pay contract by some shorter baptism, where stakeholders such as it is called in the bill and the standard will write that the company's equal pay status has been introduced. It's the employee or employee organisation who prescribes for the professional driver that everything in this room is in order, a proof goes up to the U.S.P.A. that stamps it. The bigger companies go to privates in the city and pay them for their testimony, send them to an equal rights firm that stamps it. This must be done every 3 years for 1180 professionals, must be kept file, must be published, monitored by all these agents, and it is expected to have to increase by one rank in the living room. That person can be paid a lot of money if she's supposed to do this job. It does not matter whether it is a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u183	A respectable president. I don't think I ever liked being present for a discussion of witness and standards as much as I do today. I wish I hadn't had that much time and I wouldn't be yawning like that in my heart, because the issue is really big. I'm going to say congratulations to the highest degree. Minister for putting in this bill. I had the privilege of having the highest. Minister of New York at the meeting of the United Nations Women's Committee for Women. I saw what was coming, and I got out of the hall before the Viking rock broke. I do, however, have a video that I will do in serious negotiations in due course. I was aware of the attention given to a bill, and I was sometimes enough to hear more about it than any outside of a minister's inner circle had made them, for it was only to be heard that the bill had become a law in spring and would be approved or would begin to influence the next year. It was a sort of peculiar experience to hear about a bill that you knew was as controversial in the management team as it really is, a bill that had not been made and was really uncertain at the time that it would be possible to be brought forward as a government case. However, a minister was a word - off, and he proved to have a basis for it. This is where he's put this case to work. Asked, said the highest. A minister in the antiquated earlier that there may not be a sign of weakness on the board that this is not fully settled in the administrative sector. I don't know if I'd agree with the definition whether it's a sign of weakness or not, I really don't care. The fact is, however, that the government will likely, in view of the declaration of individual diplomats, have to rely on the government's support for this bill, the support of the minority. In reality, the bill should have been introduced to the smaller section before it was submitted rather than to be taking it to the Government Parliaments, for in the lesser part, we should, of course, establish it as law. So it may not have been in the right places. But let it go. I welcome all the steps they take to achieve full equality here on land as well as elsewhere in the world. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] All steps. I don't care what it's called, equal pay witness, standard, ISO, whatever it is, whether it's called to cancel pay, which I may think that alone would have a more broader effect than this bill, whether it's called that we're going the Swedish way, which I learned at a meeting in New York with the highest degree. Ministers in which governments enter annual accounts and post-copies tax issues and find out how they have been paid. I really don't care where we're going, so let's go. I don't think that's the case, so just one way would solve the whole problem. This way is fine for her hat. I have no reason but to believe that it works for the good. But I don't think it's the magic solution that's going to be fully equal regardless of sex in this country. But this is one of the solutions that must be made. The need to be careful and before accepting the procedure to employ the standard alternative, the unique standard for action. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is on like a worm on gold. I understand him well. You have to say, as it is, that it is a little strange to be here discussing a bill where Article 1 reads: Executing: The written agreement made by the CA, with the exception of his assessment of the company's equal pay system or organisation, of meeting the requirements of the standard IST 85,br. 1st par. c The standard, and not having seen IST 85 standards, except for visions, have been allowed to grovel from my seat of envy. The senator who has the unique standard behind him. It would have been better if we had all been allowed to think about this position a little bit and examine it. I think the discussion here would have been better. But let us continue with the discussion regardless of whether it could have been better. It will then only be better and deeper in the next round when we have our status in our hands and have done more work. A few of them. Senators have introduced the danger I was talking about which we must keep in mind here. There's a real risk of what I think must be open to, that equally paid witness can be established in the dominant state, i.e. that the systematic gender exchange in the labour market and discrimination in the remuneration it involves will be witnessed and accepted. I think it's a real danger that we need to keep our eyes open for when we get to this job. In many ways, the Icelandic labour market is highly sensory. Sadly, we have a gender labour market. One is a salary and another is an enterprise's advancement. It has been shown that men are far more likely to progress in companies than women. Then I want to come in easy on what's graded higher to pay. What work will we consider to be higher? I don't even know what word to use, it's so far from my mind, but moving numbers on screens that make money, or taking care of our children, helping them develop and prosper and come home safely. It's just stop. This is not what I'm saying: No, you can't have this same pay sign. Of course not! This is just what we need to keep in mind when work and food start. It must not be placed in place of unwanted conditions. I listened to the highest. Minister in New York City. I sometimes felt as if I were following a rock star when I took a minister to walk the United Nations headquarters in New York. It was a lot of attention that Iceland and the highest. There was a minister. I watched people burst into tears with emotion over this expected bill. I listened to a minister declare that we couldn't follow, so we'd have to clear the track and lead. That experience told me a lot of things. She told me how easy it is to be impressed by the attention and admiration of others abroad. I did it myself. I was very proud to be an Icelander between what I was embarrassed about all the attention I felt was premature because I didn't see where we were going. But this also told me how much need and hope are needed to achieve these realities is in women all over the world, all over the world. They could believe that this bill would mean that we were taking a big step toward wiping out sexual amounts of pay. That hope is real. It will come about because of the situation, as it has been during the past few years, decades, centuries, and millenniums. Therefore, I rejoice at everything that makes us better and change that condition, because the situation is that no matter where we get down in the world, where we go down in the income zone, where we go down in countries according to the economic situation in each country, depending on how the production is made in each country, it's just no matter where we go down to this world; everywhere, there is a palace of women when they are assessed in the same places and similar places. That's no coincidence. This situation must be organized, organized, and organized by centuries - long, old thinking. One is pay, another is participation in unpaid care. It is no matter which income range we take, whether it is the highest-paying women or the women at the lowest salary, whether the women have a higher salary than their spouse or less; in all places, it is women who perform the largest part of the non-employment work. This is no small amount of money we're talking about, worldwide it is estimated that an unsalaried carpentry student of about $10 trillion (U.S.). I don't even know how to say that in Icelandic. So every step is good that we take to improve the injustices we use and maintain every day during such times. That's why I'm glad this bill shows up. I hope to the highest. A minister had the same mental attitude I had in New York City. A certain man or woman has told me that I am a self - centered man and is not bored with talking about myself. To avoid disappointment, I am now going to talk more about myself. I went to the United Nations Hall of the United Nations Women in New York with the idea that, of course, I knew that there was injustice in the world when it came to women, but I hadn't put myself in exactly where it was, here or there. I still had a basic idea that although I had a penis, I shouldn't get more rights than the woman next to me who's not--so basic that everyone should just be equal. But I was moved by the wide and enormous problem that exists in every aspect of human life. That's why I hope to the highest. A minister had the same mental attitude, if not merely the thought before going out, which I dare not tell, and the need to take action everywhere. I'm the highest. A minister to study a suggestion I made here regarding the Generalist Hygiene Hygiene Department, a proposal that was made at this meeting. I'm the highest. A minister to help us get into the education system, expand education in the fields of gender and equality, step in everywhere where the situation needs to be changed, because it is right to do so. It doesn't matter how much it costs. It's a good step. It's a good step. A minister may be proud to have reached the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u184	A respectable president. I like, like the others who have come up in this symposium, to the highest degree. The Minister to Congratulations on bill on equally pay, which is one of the first, if not the first initiatives of the government, as well as the only serious case that the fine category, exhilaration, has established in this government community. I hope that the support within a series of management teams will increase with the bill from the present time on. As noted, several members of the Independence Party have opposed this excellent bill. The equal position is fine as far as it goes. He is a good tool to ensure objective remuneration criteria, but he certainly is not above criticism. I am not an expert on standards, and I have not read the famous document given by my fellow group, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, waved here on the platform, but I have been working for many years on the standard, which is used as a reference in this excellent bill. It is essential, but it does not take the most important part of the workforce, which is sexized, that traditional women's work is less assessed than traditional male activities. In addition, he does not capture the hirsutism or the political empire in the labour market. So I'm alert to the fact that the level of wage as well as the witness will still be one of the devices that will save everything. The fact is, changing the attitudes and culture of the workplace in this country is required to equalize the sexual opportunities of a workforce, but it also requires community change in the whole of sexual equality. I think and I hope to the highest. A minister would agree with me there. There are a few things in the bill that I would love to hear. The minister will explain in more detail afterwards. For example, how does he, in addition to equally pay, plan to work toward the equal opportunities between the sexes in a job market? V.E.G. Ministers have valuable experience in the Matrix from their previous jobs in dealing with employees at the remuneration market. Will he also look at other aspects of human life and society and exert himself for specific activities within the educational system in equalizing sexual selection that leads to sexual selection? I would like to hear what ideas and visions he has in mind. I'm also interested in hearing from the highest level. Minister if he intends to use himself to strengthen equality laws, to make a date when broken, as well as a law on equally pay-authority, as shown here. According to the bill we're discussing here, a number of tasks are added and put on the back of an E.L.C., but unfortunately, the bill is missing numbers of extra money to an economist office to handle the added pressures associated with this bill and the work being done. You can't see it here or in the financial program until the next five years. In an equal rights lab, six women and two men work. It would be rather embarrassing if the good workers continued to receive the same salary for more work loads for doing the work that goes along with the equally pay contract. It also does not implement exactly what happens if an enterprise or agency has not obtained a certification or confirmation or renewal, although it is announced that if uncertainty arises, the minister can set up a regulation in it. I would like to keep this law clearer because we know from experience that equality laws are blurred in this regard. This has led to a lack of respect for equality laws that we wanted to see in our society. How will Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities help when the State deals with employees to keep particularly around the women's classes? Remembering that the last government, with its current prime minister and then secretary of finance, did not want to impose laws on women's working classes, such as nurses, rather than sit down with the class that all of us have so much to thank. It may also be that the public's responsibility is great when it comes to paying, for within the ranks of the public, the lowest paid classes are found, which are still women's classes. There, the responsibility of the government is immense. Hence, it is of utmost importance that the public go before and put his lines in order, not to set laws on women's classes, as was done in the past government, but to sit down and show proper respect for the women's classes that work primarily in education, care, and so forth. I think we have an essential tool here that has been working for years to come on. Work has been tirelessly designed to map the amount of pay found in society. We have repeatedly heard an argument about the exact amount of pay we pay. In fact, I think it's less important what the percentage is exactly like while the gender difference in pay is found in Icelandic society, no matter how high, we should eliminate it by any means possible. It is not enough to have such a good device, no matter how good a device it is. I also remind you that sexual violence is part of a certain labor culture where, unfortunately, sexual harassment, etc. thrives. which preserves and maintains these class distinctions in certain places and, therefore, in certain areas within the community. I believe in the highest. There will also be general practice by a minister in these matters. I look forward to seeing a far more extensive operation that contributes to the equality of the sexes. The excellent bill we're discussing here, which has been very much discussed in every place other than the council, and finally we're talking about here, is as far as it goes, but the days of the whitewash are over. Generalism is needed if it is appropriate for the inborn inequities of the sexes in Icelandic society. It is not enough for us to be impressed by the fact that Iceland is the best in the world when it comes to gender equality and the sexes in a workforce and in other areas. It's not enough to bake pink cakes. Action is required and action must be real. They need to act on the mind and strength of the government groups, at least Reverence, here with this bill, shows that they're serious about upholding the equality issues. I don't think there's anything left but to support that good effort, but I hope that there's more to it because we always want more than we get.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u185	Madam President. It is my joy to stand here and hold a very brief number for the sake of the Supreme One. Minister, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, has provided this bill for equally pay-authorization, one of the several policies of restoration that went into the government covenant and are discussed here. I must admit, though, that this has mixed feelings. I'm one of them, if they got old enough, who was dragged down as a little girl into a town by my mother, who took from lessons on the women's holiday, October 24, 1975, that stood there on the slope, I watched the crowd weeping about having been dragged from a group of playmates up in the Breinholt to go on this trip, and Mom said: "I want you to be here when you're doing this. These were the terms and rewards of women in the workplace. I don't hide it any more than others, that there have certainly been many things that have been accomplished. We are on a global scale with a fine position to be proud of. This is the work of many appreciative individuals. It doesn't change that I gave my mother's talk to my daughters a few days ago when I told them to observe the discussion here because we were going to change it. I sincerely hope that after some decades they will not stand in that situation and give the same talk. There are invisible obstacles, these lines that are always drawn, which certainly have moved further and further in the right direction. The thing is, they've come as far as there's a choir that says, "That's good enough, we've come far enough." Let's be cool. It's fine, 5%, common, it's no big deal. But this is it, we're further and good enough for us no longer, not for us, not for our parents who cleared the way, and that's certainly not good enough for our children, not for our girls, and not for our boys. We are talking about reasonableness for the whole society, fair, just, fair society of equality. You can also ask, like why. The United States Parliamentary chairman of the United States of America made an issue of reply to the Supreme Court. Minister earlier today, if for such a case it was not normal to negotiate it in a labour market. This may be normal, but if so, we do not live under normal circumstances. I thought it was quite experienced. I hope these words did not indicate that the United States Parliamentary chairman views these last steps by patiently waiting. I would have believed it a long time ago, but I've stopped wishing when it comes to such matters because obstacles such as unexplained pay of gender, sex - pay, will not disappear with wish. It's simply fully developed. In the end, I think it's going to be a pretty big deal, bigger than this 51⁄213% or whatever research has shown that it's still unexplained sexual differences. This may be one of the cases that can get your footprints across in an equal, fair and rational manner, this will be a case in which the lawgiver simply says: we're going to make clear that we're going to keep equal wages when it comes to sex - and maybe and hopefully this is going to clear the path. As we have seen in the talk of many who are positive, it's not surprising, it's not the only case, unfortunately, but this may be the case in which we have managed to mash the unseen barriers for the longest time. If we kick it out now, wipe it out, take this invisible obstacle down with a final effort, who knows what kind of favor we're doing to other groups who are fighting for equality. Maybe it'll get a bit rough. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stilggi is right when he predicts that this will be one of the biggest cases of the present government in view. I don't think that's likely to happen to me. In fact, I look at things from a different perspective than what. A senator I somehow read out the wishful thinking that other works of the government would be small. I think they'll be fine, many and good. But I think it's underappreciated. I think this will have greater and greater impact, but we may be aware now because if the case becomes legal, it simply establishes that there is a good condition, even a very good global situation, that is not good enough for us Icelanders when it comes to equality. That is an excellent theme for the work to take place ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u186	Madam President. I can't put a word in my mouth. I've been speaking from this platform before about the leadership we hear in politics in Iceland. V.E.G. A minister named Leadership, Lead, in the lead, means that. We've talked about it in energy, climate, environment, ocean affairs, fishing, and now in equality, and we're certainly in the future, but it's not like being a leader. I couldn't have heard better than that. A senator said we were in good standing. You see, you're right. A role of leadership is that of humans or communities whose eyes differ from theirs. They do not label themselves leaders. So I warn them of the persecution. This may help you to feel joy, but it is easy to give in to such speech. I'll name it up on the subject here, because we're certainly very much on equal terms. Equalism and equal policy do not have very few spokes here at the General Assembly, such as at the time. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son and the highest. Minister of Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson to me, with or without, now I'm going to invent a new word, even as a reward. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with me that the role of leadership in equality is an increase in words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u187	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, though, which is somehow opposite of the highest. Minister earlier today, if I understand that correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u188	Me, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u189	- I didn't use the term leader... - That we're in good shape? [[Up front.]] I said we were in good position on equality and those specific matters we're talking about. That's what I'm saying. When you look at all the general counts of that exact position, we are. Whether that means we're... I'm sorry... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u190	The speaker in a chair has become, and it is not customary to be in a conversation with others outside the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u191	Whether it means that we are leaders - there are probably many and varied definitions of leadership, but the one that I think most likely leads people, such as the word, to some group forward, to follow the path, to influence others for the benefit of those actions. I believe that this is our role, whether we choose it or not. We are looked forward to the news of the New York City council during the days that some councilmen here have witnessed and ministers themselves, in which many would like to discuss these matters with the Iceland embassy. From that interpretation, we play a leading role, at least so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u192	A respectable president. I'm going to join the Minister of Congratulations with this bill's contribution. It is a pleasure to learn how many members of the Parliament have wanted to congratulate the Minister and seem to be quite generally at peace in this room on this excellent bill. As shown in some of the talks given in the report on the bill, the first law on the pay balance of women and men was given in 1961. Then people felt that it would be a little difficult to change the attitudes of the sexes, but it would be easy to change them with the dues. This may not have been the case, but it is repeated in research that the result is not in favor of women when it comes to earning a living on a job market. A report by the social and housing minister on the status and development of equality between 2013 and 2015 shows that the pay amount ranges from 5.6% to 13.7%. Of course these numbers are handled and what is exactly right in that subject, but I think most people agree that this is a legal offense. Of course, it is shocking that we here have clear laws that deal with them and that there is no room for discrimination in the labour market. So we need to go in doing yet another law to reiterate it. In view of the failure of our efforts to succeed, since 1961, I fully support the fact that we have such a procedure. Hv. A senator who spoke before me discussed our position in equality in general and was reviewing our position in reply. I think it is quite clear whether we refer to a famous New York conference or a much smaller conference I was attending in the Faeroes of the Westnoric Council, where there was an equality issue, that is generally seen in Iceland when it comes to this series, and we are already looking at the World Economic Council in the first place for sexual equality and have been there for eight years in a row. That, of course, is great, and it should be welcomed. Of course, we are to be proud of it, and perhaps we can still share in the worldwide work. The report points to changes in law No. 13/2010, of partner partnerships and private partnership laws, at the time of the change for gender ratios in partner control. I was not in session at that time, but I remember that there was a lot of discussion about these changes at the time and each one showed off. But it seems to have worked. That's why I think it's a good thing for us to take this discussion here and we're getting the case into Congress. I'm so glad we got to the point where we're giving this bill. I trust each other. The General and Education Committee, to review the case, to enter the envelopes, and to establish a broad agreement on a bill that is designed to further increase sexual equality in the labour market. I also think about it in the report that, with the permission of a president, it says: ▪ The promotion of the equally paid standard requires support and participation in the highest executives and jobs within each workplace. Clearly, then, the process itself involves the cost of companies and institutions. Shows the experience of companies and institutions who have already undergone the same pay contract on the basis of the equally paid standard, however, working on it is the most at the beginning. It was a natural experiment project, and institutions and businesses have gone through that process. This may be exactly what happens when the change occurs by going through the process, which will continue to result in changes when managers need to install their balanced vision because they have to follow some process. I believe that there could be the same in this regard. Therefore, I am very happy that this matter has come to pass and reiterate my congratulations to the Minister. I also enjoy seeing that even though it is late midnight, many members of the council are still in the hall and appear to be very interested in this matter. Much has been discussed about our cooperation and cooperation at the council, so it is a pleasure to hear that those members of the council who have expressed themselves here generally declare support to the bill and are good to know that we can handle matters here in great agreement. What a joy it is if they are stretched out over government and government! I think it's exciting times ahead. I think it's time for us to solve this situation with the situation that's been through here this evening. I think it's the highest. The minister and the Board of Education must find a way out so that it will not be a problem to read from the standard or to publish it on the council website, if that is the case. But I allow me to doubt that tonight's discussion would have been especially fun if we had had had our standard, since it wasn't the highlight of tonight's talks when we read from this fine standard. But the discussion has been fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u193	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm not going to stay with the material, and it's been done well tonight, and I'd like to thank you for a very good discussion that we'll probably finish tomorrow, considering the position of the clock and the end of the log. Hv. A senator seems to me to be the first member of the Independence Party to address this political case, which is the focus of the government, but it is so odd that it is obvious that the members of the administration, and especially the Supreme Court. Minister, assume to be supportive of the case from the ranks of the government opposition. I think there's every reason for the matter to get at least that. Positive coverage and positive dowry for the 1st. with all the due warning, of course, during the therapy of the matter. How unusual this is when it comes to politics as close as this one is! Therefore, I would like to ask. A member of Parliament whether it is that the matter has been settled from the House of Independence on a prior note, general notice of the group in general, or whether appointed members of Congress, I do not wish to get details on this in detail, have filed a warning on the matter. It is unusual that the government's support is expected, but there have been no conversations about searching with such support. That's unusual too. We are actually having this conversation in 1st. The matter and no such conversation, of course, have taken place at the minister's hand or in any other formality with the leaders of the administration body. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For this reason, I'd like to ask you why. A senator of this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, there are a lot of things in this council that have been unusual, not that I have much experience here, but if it is unusual, I would feel greatly improved by the fact that these bills were taken in order to receive support from both government and government. Hv. A senator asked me if the bill had been taken out of the House of Independence, so it isn't, since this case is in the government covenant. It is clear that certain members of the council have been giving a specific advance, having had doubts about the matter. As a matter of fact, I do believe that I feel that members of Congress should follow their own convictions solely. If there are any members of the council after this discussion and political treatment that are not convinced of the value of this case, I believe they will vote for their convictions. I'm just glad that there's a general positive discussion on this subject, and I realize that the matter is very supportive of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u195	Thank you. A senator's answers are clear. I'd like to see what I'd like to ask. A senator only on the subject of the matter, first of all, whether to agree with the speculations that have come especially from the ranks of the Independence Party that are subject to a burdensome business procedure. We have also heard of the order of the Association of Employment, that it is considered unnatural that legislation on employment is being passed on in this way. I'll tell you, I don't agree with that. This statement, however, is now close to the highest level. A minister so that he may know her well himself. Then I'd like to ask who. In spite of a general positive discussion of the matter as such, a member of the council may feel that the matter is too narrow, based on the level of expectations surrounding it. It has even been so in foreign lands that it has been concluded that this is actually the final solution to the problem of sex - related pay. First of all, what does the senator think is to follow up on this matter? On the other hand, I would like to ask the senator to wonder if there is some grain of truth in that the trumpet blast may not have been fully contained. A foreign minister when it came to the conclusion that this would be the final funeral of sexual wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-25-59.u196	A respectable president. Thanks again for the counter-regulated. Asks whether I am concerned that this is a burdensome law law. In some ways it is burdensome, business needs to introduce some processes, and it will cost them, but I still believe that what companies get out of it is more and we too are as a community. I can see in the report that this has been done in a broad and broad discussion. I also trust the committee to take this discussion there. There'll probably be reviews from these sources. We will take it into account in the political treatment of any enterprise in general on this matter. In general, though, I feel that this burdensome element should not interfere with the progress of the bill. It is asked whether the bill is too narrow and does not achieve the primary objective of complete elimination of the pay of the sexes. To answer, in 1961, when legislation was established here, people thought it would be patted and set in a few years. It wasn't. We're taking the next step. I sincerely hope that after a few years, we can say: Yes, we have managed to eliminate gender wages. Whether this is the case, time alone must be revealed. Next step. I think we need to follow this bill very carefully. I see, of course, we have a bit of time, there's a little lead-in period for the companies and, of course, such a witness will take a considerable amount of time. But I think this is a good step. As for the trumpet blasters and Viking cheers in New York, I wasn't at that conference, so I don't exactly know how the case was introduced there, but I'm not afraid of it, we should be proud of the position we are today in terms of gender equality. We can talk it up. [[The president calls.]] This could help to strengthen even more the situation. It's just a good thing.
