ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u1	Madam President. It's a very serious matter when it's the highest. The prime minister has found himself hiding two reports for months before the council and a nation both on key issues during the last term. In addition, at the time the reports were ready for the Ministry of Economics, campaigns were held, then elections were adopted, and then government talks began. All along there were reports, the highest national policy during the last term and of the case that led to an earlier vote in the highest court. Minister. I feel, Madam President, like the highest. The prime minister has turned to the council and the nation by hiding this important information, and I ask the highest. President: How can the council and the nation protect themselves for such fine conduct as a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u2	A respectable president. I'll take notes. paritaprevir It's a Oddný new Harðardóttir. It's October 15th, 2015. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and other council members request a report on the dissociation of this so - called debt correction, but the report appeared so whole 19 months after the request, which is made to abdicate. But it turns out that there is already a struggle. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir asks for that report at the Assembly Hall in October 2016, but it does not appear to the people until three months later, i.e. after the election, after the government is formed so that, in fact, voters don't get all the data on the table in the event of an election. The minister is advised for the second time to deliberately keep information from the common people in the pursuit of an election. It is absurd for the council to accept this behaviour and that a minister of such secret thinking repeatedly and a minister actually has, in fact, a then minister of finance and present prime minister, a misdirected nation and council. It's a trade below every shelf, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u3	Madam President. I agree with what. Councilmen who have spoken before. Prior to a collapse, the people may have avoided going over some legal threshold, with less regard to morality. This led to a collapse of trust, and the common people demanded reform and new politics in the land. It is especially upon our hands of politicians to care for that responsibility. It sucks that the current prime minister has hidden two important reports in the process of election. One shed light on questionable conduct, and the other exposed the unsatisfactory provision of the Kingdom. V.E.G. The prime minister has refused to appear before a Senate committee, he is not there for any prepared inquiry, so I must ask, Madam President: "How will the president seek to increase the respect of the Generals when such a practice is not spoken of?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u4	Madam President. I've got blood for my duty to go up here because I think I've come at least Three times during the last assembly, requesting that the Council be disfellowshipped at that time. The financial and economic secretary has returned a report in line with the petition adopted here on October 15, 2015. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir In October 2016, I repeated this request by Svandís's Savvard's Svavarsdóttir, who had come up and repeated it. I know it's the highest. ... thepresident of the council presented them with financial and economic messages. In view of the fact that the report, which took so many months to prepare, was a total of eight pages, you ask yourself: " What took the matter? Was it a challenge, perhaps, to inform exactly how the greatest campaign of the last government came out to all the people in the country? [[The president calls.]] It is sobering to consider for the National Parliament that response can be drawn by members of the Parliament, as has been done here, and completely unsurpassed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u5	A respectable president. I have to agree with them why. Councilmen who have come here and have expressed disappointment over the most clearly practiced tactics. Ministry of finance and the highest degree. Prime Minister. It's the key duty of the executives and the highest. Ministers to give the council correct and correct information when appropriate. It must be a real loss of confidence if the present level has reached its highest level. In effect, the prime minister used his position to postpone the release of a report that was as good as ready because he did not want to make it a matter of elections, which included the election. on the key points discussed in the report. Of course, it is, a respectable president, a serious confidentiality between the council and the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u6	Madam President. For 50th. The Parliament's law speaks of the family of truth or of information at the council, in the section on the surveillance of the council. We're supposed to be able to monitor the Executive Director. How do you define it in the law? It says, by permission of the President: In the matter of Congress, with special discussion, in response to council inquiry, and in reports, whether of personal initiative or by the request of the members of Congress, as well as in case the initiative of the regular committees of the council, the secretary should submit the information available to him and have a significant significance for the interpretation of the matter. He had access to a report that both he himself had called after his own initiative after talking to a council committee, and members of the Parliament had called for it. It's in the law, but there's just no law against breaking it. That's exactly what the Congress of Porta will do for the third time, the bill of information and the family of truth, that such a defense of law and privilege, that a minister can not only decide on his own business that he intends to conceal information concerning the council's affairs, would not be correct and right, but rather give false or misleading information. [[The president calls.]] It should be legal that if such a course is made, if a person becomes unintentional, severe inadequacy, or intent, it defended the minister's responsibility. Otherwise, the council can't do its own surveillance job. What can a president do now? It can be reproved or called after the reply of a prime minister. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u7	President. It is clear that this case would have been the case if it had been agreed to Porita's Congress on Information and Minister responsibility that has, unfortunately, not been discussed in the council. I really hope, in view of what has taken place here, that the matter will receive quick payment at the council so that we will not again be in the position of being completely in control and merciful incompetent or negligent ministers and exactly have no tools, no tools, in order to give the Commission serious oversight. It is very serious, and it was one of the lessons we were to take after the crash. Therefore I pray to the minister, no, not the minister, but the minister. The senators of the greater part and the smaller part helping Pirata and I to get it through the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u8	A respectable president. I want to get involved in this discussion. This is the debt spill. Me and my party, a bright future, were completely against her and, in effect, one category at a council that voted against her at first vote on the budget. As a matter of fact, more were added. It's called upon to inform us exactly how this largest campaign code has been replaced. It would be good to have that report in. I'm calling for her, too. But here, members of Congress like them just have no idea how this would come out. It was quite clear that those with the most debt also owed the most. That's how they got the most. There was also a much smaller area in the country, where property was less expensive than people in the capital area. This lay before the last election, before the 2013 election. [[The president calls.]] So I ask you, what did members of the government, present and former, not know about this matter? The senators of the bright future made this absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u9	...to drop the report?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u10	The president asks why. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to observe deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u11	A respectable president. If someone had told me before the election that a few months after them, I would stand here in a pit to discuss the fact that, at that time, the ultimate. The secretary of finance would have deliberately hidden the council, and I would have thought that the individual was crazy who would say that. Seriously speaking, guys, this is heavier than tears, and it's even heavier than tears. Environment Ministers should not realize what this is all about, trying to call themselves knights: I alone and my party alone, we saw it all together. [[Up front.]] What are you asking for? [[Up front.]] The matter is that the Generals requested a report for the Commission. the present minister of finance. He won those reports, then sat on their results until the election was over. This is not in the spirit of the mass - reported improved reactions at the highest level. Environment Minister has spoken for, apparently, a hollow sound, to the highest degree. Ministers are standing here and acting like this is just about the content and content of the report. [[The president calls.]] What kind of a deal is this? [[Take it up, Fúsk.]] Thanks for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u12	A respectable president. The information and content of the material in question is precisely irrelevant in the context in which we are here. Of course, it is important in another context, not in the context we address here. Knowledge is power. We know that. I mentioned last week that the Catholic Church of the Middle Ages knew exactly this, that knowledge is power. It controlled knowledge, had the exclusive right to knowledge, and defined what was right and what was wrong. I wondered, " Do the Independence Party want him to be likened to the Catholic Church during the Middle Ages, to control knowledge, to do what can be dropped, and to go out to the masses? ' That's what it's all about. Knowledge is power. Keeping information in mind is the misuse of that power. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u13	Madam President. That's the best. The prime minister was advised to hide very important reports on very serious and high political matters before elections, and political negotiations must be behind him. That's very serious. Here comes the highest. Minister of the government of Prime Ministers, and of your hideability, be willing, all of which are bidden for the future, and in the spirit of its choice, I suppose. I view this incident as cheating, I view it as the highest. The prime minister has turned to the council and to the nation by hiding these reports at the time when he needed them in the form of elections and in administrative matters. This is serious. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u14	A respectable president. I'm just gonna have to be surprised to hear a word that's great. Environment Minister. As if the contents of the report were thus adjusted to something important. As if it mattered what the report said. What really matters is the form, the highest. The prime minister did. These reports could have been about agriculture, just as in correction. The second report was, for example, Not about the correction, but about the property of Icelanders. We're seeing that if a minister is self-important, what reports he published and when are we in a very bad position in Iceland, having a very wealthy Minister's office and a very weak assembly. We need to take this discussion very seriously. A respectable president. I've got to take this opportunity to complain that I'm at the top. The prime minister is not there and will not be here this week, since it would be very good to be able to ask the highest question. Prime Minister on this very matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u15	Madam President. This is a serious matter, and we cannot talk about a minister for the second time. This is obvious resolve, and I hope that an agent will take this case along with the other one and watch it in the overall context. It is not acceptable that a minister at any given time can decide whether or when to report a report. We need to make the project so clear that, as soon as it comes down to mention a minister, he or she is obliged to report it and have some special delay in choosing to respond in some way. I've got to be amazed at a word that's too. Minister of the environment here. Two former members of the Bjarts'future had this report request, ex - wíth. þm. Róbert Marshall og Brynhildur Petersdótttir. [[Up front.]] These were questions that needed to be answered and should have come a long time ago. There is a disgrace to the council how long later this is being answered, and only in part. [[The president calls.]] The questions have never been answered. A respectable president. I'm going to hope this doesn't mean it's the best. Environment Minister believes that this is okay, to put in a drawer when a report request comes into her level, just because the contents were what it was. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u16	The president must reiterate that request. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers respect the time given to discuss the conference board of presidents at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u17	Madam President. I have two books, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and the Parliament. I think it may be a reminder in this discussion that this is not just some moral requirement or right to be observed by members of Congress and natural manners that ministers will respond, this is the Constitution of the General Court to monitor the establishment. It is simply stated in 54 C.E. The Constitution of the general council members is permitted to require a secretary to comment on public issues with a request or request for a report. This, in turn, has been applied to 49. Congress. It refers to paragraph 14. The constitution and the responsibility of the Ministers of the Management Board. How serious it is when a minister feels that he is able to exercise self - control and authority over the Constitution and Congress laws, as if he has an example of whether he will answer the reports and when. The matter is far more serious than that. The forsætisráðherra minister of Bjarni Benedictsson and then secretary of finance can cope with memory or lack of judgment, such as the Supreme Court. The current financial and efnahagsráðherra minister Benedikt Johnson outlined this in its own time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Besides, I congratulate the new role especially on the future, to defend the improved practice in the way we heard from here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u18	Madam President. We will discuss this in a special discussion of the political situation in the United States. I imagine there are many Americans who are ashamed these days for their government. I have to say, as it is, I am also ashamed of the government at home, very much. I find it very difficult to justify it and to discuss it with people from abroad who just fail to explain the situation here. There's been a violation of an emergency and everything just keeps going. Maybe it's always been this way, I don't know, but we need to start asking ourselves if it should stay this way. I don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u19	President. What a horror it is to listen to the highest! Environment Minister, Senator Birt's future, defends the willing spirit. It's so sad. I criticize the future more than any other category because I had a firm belief in a bright future. I believed it when a bright future claimed that she wanted to improve government. That's what's at the top. Minister here is not a defence attorney. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A minister can speak here in a pita in a minute. I'd also like to reiterate that if it is, and a man's reaction to this authority is that we're all supposed to know everything and a brilliant future knows everything, we don't need any reports, despite the fact that there were two senators in the future during the last term asking for this report. How useful it would have been if it was the highest. An environmental minister would have explained to his companions that there would be no need to be included in this apparently unnecessary report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u20	Madam President. There is one thing I took into account in the government covenant that was presented here, that peace and harmony were followed by much. It says at the bottom of the first page, using the permission of a president: The government will carry out all its tasks in honor of good government and transparent administration. Now let us hope that these are not just words left out for the members of the administrations and councilmen here in the hall that they want a good way of ruling. If so, you must agree that there is no good way of ruling. A minister can hold a report and not return it when it is required by our senators' surveillance obligations to the European Commission in the Constitution and then implemented in the Congress Act. If it's really so that these regulations are not active, without any bite, that a minister can only decide not to respect them, we also need to get it clear. [[The president calls.]] During the last term, I was told that the dignified president of the Generalis is to determine a matter of Congress and can't be referred to courts. That's what they told me about the President back then. [[The president calls.]] It's on the board of the Generals now, fixing this up, so we'll find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u21	A respectable president. In case of a what? A senator is very upset to hear that this has been anticipated, this conclusion of the report I mean, I just have to deal with it. But it was clear to us senators, who were opposed to the matter, we were opposed to the correction. It was clear how this division was simply because, as you can buy a bigger home on them, you can owe more, otherwise you don't get payment and, as the case was put on by the former government, you got more. [[Up front.]] I never, and I didn't do it back here in a pita, making sure that reports don't come in on time, so I just want to wait for it. Senators would like to take my word for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u22	A respectable president. The Congress has no proper instrument to hold a minister responsible for a delinquency unless it may be merely a gathering of the National Court because of the criminal action of a minister. Has it sometimes been called the nuclear power? However, it can be taken into account whether a significant type of delinquency and the abuse of a minister of his position can be considered relevant for 140 and 141. gr. general penalties on the violations of public staff. These are the only tools we have to hold a minister responsible for serious wrongdoing. We need to ask ourselves: " If the council is not stronger than this, do we not need to make it better? Do we not have to adapt the tools the council has to responsible for a violation of office and abuse of its position?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to get into the discussion anymore. I feel that people are taking quite a long time in the discussion for a short reason. I believe that comments on the timing of the reports on this subject may be appropriate and belong in the council. I think we can take a discussion about it here and find a way to discuss how these matters were going to work. Senators have the right to express such comments. I think it would be useful if we tried, and as we discussed the details of these reports, because they also matter, and they don't need to be taken to funerals, that discussion is also relevant at the council. So I recommend that men relax and that we try together at the council to find a way to discuss these things differently than in the way of eulogy under the supervision of President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u24	A respectable president. I'm happy for those words. A senator who spoke before me discussing these matters, and I trust that we will get his help to the highest degree. The prime minister here in the hall so that we can discuss these matters, both the subject of the controversial reports and the fact that their conclusions were hidden beyond election. I'd like to say something, too. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ævardósdótir's claim to the council's position against the Commission. I challenge the highest. The current government and the administrative body are helping to promote the independence of the Allied government against the Commission. I challenge them to the highest. Ministers who have now replaced chairs but previously sat as general members and even on government opposition not forgetting their origin and the circumstances in which they lived, helping us to promote the independence of the council to the Commission so that the council itself may even produce such a report as discussed here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u25	Since the President has received an announcement of a change in the administration of Pirata's council, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir is chairman, Einar Brynjólfsson's son is vice president, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is the secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u26	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers, as well as Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u27	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister will follow up with the Congress on the political situation in the United States, which is in a special discussion with Porita. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on matters related to that condition, but for us directly here on the land, the case that arose yesterday when the Icelander was prevented from going to the United States. He was on a plane in which he was going to race US Open in Taekwondo, but he was pulled out of the plane because this Icelandic citizen was born in Iran and has twice the citizenship, Irish and Icelandic. It's been published in the news at the highest. This morning, a minister met with the U.S. secretary of the United States's assistant secretary, who presented the protests of the Icelandic government to the directive we see in action. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether this really means double citizenship, i.e. Icelandic citizenship and then citizenship in any of these countries - does this directive mean that the average citizen's right is just zeroed out? That the rights of these people turn away from becoming Icelandic citizens and that the directive actually works that way? I'd also like to ask the highest. Minister, and I would like to be glad that he has already promoted the protests of the Icelandic government: Will they be followed in any further way? Are we expecting a written protest against the U.S. government? This case was specifically recorded, i.e. what about the freedom of the Icelandic citizen? Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in view of the procedure in this matter. It seems that the person has been able to travel to the United States or not, but at the end he is led out of an airplane after being assured that the Icelandic passport would work, so I would like to ask: Is the Icelandic government in any kind of contact with a pilot on how to carry out this directive exactly, which I am naturally obliged to say at the end of this, that it is frightening, unfair, and cutting off one of the things most valuable of our freedoms, of course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Like what? A senator referred to the political situation in the United States in a special discussion afterward, and no doubt will this be the case. There are quite a lot of inquiries for you. Senator. I'm going to try to go over the main thing, so hopefully that's a clear picture of it. A senator asks about. I took this matter up at a meeting with the U.S. Deputy Minister of the United States this morning and the representative of the embassy, both of the individual and of the individuals with twice the subject. The situation is this: It was a good and informative meeting. Our point could be understood. There is no question about their going directly to the governments in the United States. I thought it was important to convey this message in a clear, direct, direct way and, in fact, to me. That's why we had this meeting. The problem is that there are some conflicting messages from various countries. There is a waiting situation in the U.S. government system for the transition. I have a optimistic view that the westerns, and those in charge of this project, will try to overcome this as soon as possible. There is no need to have many words about the fact that this is not an acceptable situation for the individual as well. A senator points to is in, and others are in a similar situation. This, however, is something we will know and will be seen in the following days. We will do everything we can in the Icelandic foreign service to help our citizens. [[The president calls.]] However, we do not have the authority to carry out this directive normally.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, it's much bigger than what I was specifically asking. It will be discussed below, centered on basic human rights to travel from place to place. We are reminded in a tangible way how precious our freedom of movement is to us. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in particular about what turns them to Icelandic citizens, i.e. People with double citizenship. There was a meeting this morning. Will these protests be followed in any further way? As I understand it, it is considered a formal protest made orally by another state's ambassador, and the highest. A minister may confirm that. But will something rather be done? V.E.G. Minister has discussed possible cooperation with the North countries. There is now more news in which Norwegian citizens receive the same treatment as Icelandic citizens, i.e. If they have double citizenship, will there be anything special about them? I repeat as far as I'm concerned - it's just as possible. A minister says, "We are not responsible for carrying out this directive. " [[The president calls.]] But how can we make sure that the pilots employed here, and the number of people from abroad, on the way to the United States, are as fully informed as to what lies ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u30	A respectable president. It was immediately Sunday morning that I expressed myself about the position of the Icelandic government on this matter. When the Icelandic foreign service began to operate in an effort to deal with these issues, to receive information, and to help the individuals involved, and the Icelandic foreign service will continue to do so. Hv. A senator can be absolutely sure of that. We do what we can, and we can do to get these matters to the best of our ability. The Protestants have been presented in a clear, direct, direct, and direct manner. Then we will work with our embassies, and we have been in touch with them about the world, as well as with the U.S. embassy and the U.S. government. We will do what we can to apply these matters. Hv. A senator can be absolutely sure that just as humans have worked very hard today during these two days, that work will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u31	A respectable president. I have a suspicion that the highest. Secretary of state will be busy in this inquiry class. I share the concerns of many senators of Donald Trumps's recent act, but I'd like to share my concerns with a Senate and with a minister. I'm concerned that the president of the United States is Fascist, misogynist, and racist, but I'm particularly concerned with the expressed will and interest of the President of the United States to restore torture, which is crimes against humanity, and war crimes involving the United Nations Convention against torture, the Geneva Treaty, and the Treaty of Rome, of course. I'm particularly concerned that the President of the United States will open up a new secret prison throughout the world in order to practice torture there on the declared enemies of the U.S. government and alleged terrorists where he seems to believe in the value and ability of torture to obtain considerable information. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State to what he intends to do to ensure that history does not recur, that we will not be directly involved again in helping the President of the United States to commit war crimes, as we did here, and as revealed in a 2007 report that Iceland was most likely guilty of transporting prisoners into secret prisons around the world. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State to see if he shares my concerns with them. What does he intend to do to prevent Icelandic airports from becoming an international landing site for the U.S. prisoner flight, as you may have expected them to have been in Trumpur's predecessor, George Bush, Jr.? What will he do to prevent that from happening? How will we make sure that we do not share in wars, as we did this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u32	A respectable president. Icelanders place certain values in their foreign policy. They have always done so, and they will continue to do so. I think that's the best way to fight for human rights, discussing things objectively, not being very important. I think it's best to do so in that way. We will stand for what we have prepared for this in our foreign policy. I'd prefer not to put anything out of the scenes like that. A senator pulls up here, and I think it's a pretty high, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u33	A respectable president. There is no question that the State Department reported that some 200 planes associated with the U.S. Federal Service, the CIA, had an international landing that had been linked to a concentration flight. There was never any confirmation in the State Department's report that prisoners had been aboard. It was too expensive and difficult to ask the Americans straight out if they had been on board with prisoners. Interestingly, torture is a very marked theoretical concept that the one here has definitely studied. Getting back to drinking water, as Donald Trump has declared, is war crimes. To restart using the same interrogation techniques used by George Bush is war crimes. That's torture. There's no value in it. That's a theoretical word. I ask you, are we going to do something to make sure that there are no planes on board with possible prisoners on the way to Donald Trumps's planned secret prison?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u34	A respectable president. I just repeat what I said, that our foreign policy is based on a set of baselines. Nothing will change. I don't think it's necessary to stress it more. We have not hesitated, the Icelandic government, to deliver our information. Of course, if there is any reason to do so because of some potential situation, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u35	A respectable president. There is still a question about the United States of America asking to the highest level. Secretary of state. President of the United States, Donald Trump has started in horror. He promised in his campaign to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico, forbidding certain agents to come to the country, and he showed great disrespect for women and their rights. He also spoke of the handless nature of NATO at some point. In these first days of office, he has issued decrees and declarations that indicate the seriousness of human affairs. Of course, we need to act. Of course, it is of great concern that this animalistic vision appears every hour with him coming out of his mouth, perhaps the most powerful man in the world. At the same time, reports of his conversations with President Pútín of Russia, where they are planning a closer cooperation, including the following: ... defense and military issues. Let us bear in mind that this is the same Pútín, who has repeatedly demonstrated dictatorial superiority toward international law and makes him one of the greatest threats to our world. It is also the same Pútín as the Western countries used to punish us for their conduct in Ukraine. One of the subjects BBC News discusses that they have had positive, upbuilding conversations about which are the very issue of Ukraine. The report also presents concern for high - ranking U.S. politicians because Trump plans to lift a Russian business flag. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State to see if he believes that NATO's character will change into Trumpur's time and whether we need to have any particular concern about this close cooperation between these two giants without other Western countries being at the table. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I ask if he will make comments to the U.S. president of the United States on the field of NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u36	Hv. The senator reviewed a seminar in his speech, which will be more important during our discussion in the near future, unfortunately, that is the security and protection issues. What has happened in recent years is simply that humans were hoping that we would not need them as much as they used to be. However, for a number of reasons, the discussion has been made in question at any time. A senator, made it possible for all the member nations of NATO to see more cooperation than they have done in the past. It is also true that people believed that approach the national leader Pútín in a different way would result in success. Today, those political leaders who have believed that everything from there could be trusted to the point of great criticism. However, when it comes to the transition to the U.S. government, it is prominent in the case of both the prospective Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, as well as the U.S. vice president of the United States that the U.S. policy is not changed about NATO. The same was observed after the meeting of the President of the United States and prime minister of the British, it would be clear that the commitment between the United States and the Atlantic Union was totally unchanged. If I recall correctly, a respected president, it also appeared in what was quoted from the conversations of the current president of the United States and the President Merkel. It is a pleasure, since NATO, the Atlantic Alliance, is a very important organization, as it has been today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u37	Mr. President. It says that the United States assures us that there will be no change in commitment on their part to NATO, that this is a pleasure. Then I ask: What exactly does the president of the United States have to do and do in order to be viewed as a delight only if he is some of the highest - ranking men at the table of this defense? I'd like to ask you, "Very much. " Foreign Ministers formally try the conservative and reformed organizations in which he is vice president, with similar emphasis to the United States in such a way. Do refugees and immigrants have problems, making changes in their priorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u38	A respectable president. Now, I'd like to state for granted that we have a story, me and the other. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, we went to high school together. I am very happy to hear the emphasis of the times. Senator on the importance of the Atlantic Community. It's a little different than me before. I'll now admit that it was in 1983,1987. So it's good. I don't know what it's like to be in some organization that has similar emphasis. A senator is referring to a conclusion that is not the nature of a person's harmony with emphasis or policy. But we can talk about it later. The Atlantic alliance is more than unique politicians and national leaders, and it builds on a solid foundation. If member nations are going to change or change their policies in this respect, in the case of the United States more than one president, although he is, of course, very powerful, would be necessary. That is why I was referring to the message that we have seen in the foreign media.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u39	Mr. President. Outside and home, although this is not the case that was discussed above. All of us are aware of the way U.S. Silicon's raw disk, which began its activities in the late fall, has pumped pollution across the surrounding population in the city of Rhinenes. The descriptions of pollution and pollution of many residents from the factory have caused them to feel uncomfortable and, in fact, amazing. This is different from what we should get used to. This is pollution from one oven of four planned factors, a total of which are responsible for the production of 100,000 tons of raw materials per year. In view of this, it is even more amazing to build another raw silk product next to Thorsil's roads. It is not enough; it is intended to produce another one of one of the raw hooks, 110 thousand tons per year. Naturally, citizens are concerned that by means of new raw silk plants, pollution in the region will substantially increase beyond existing levels. The EEA is now behind the work permit of the Thorsilver in Hlavavík and the Agency received some 40 sources of information from people and stakeholders near Helgavík, which violate the permission of the rawsilver Thorsil's license. In addition, over 3,500 people have signed a challenge not to accept the license. So I want to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that both she and the government have declared opposition to further construction of contaminated industry in Iceland: Will Ministers oppose the permit of raw silverver Thorsil in Helgavik? What's going to happen? Ministers to meet residents of the city of Rhines, who do not accept contaminated industry in their backyard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u40	A respectable president. I particularly thank you for this inquiry and informing here that I have been very worried about this matter. As we have seen in the media, the EEA is using the United Silicon herbal plant in a kind of intensive care. The EEA has met with a pathologist who has also followed closely. This meeting was due to a hint of smell, a potential health impact as a result of the effects of the potential exhalation as a result. This is a good description by a senator. According to the information I received from a pathologist and through the EEA, there was no evidence of an increase in illness in the area that could be attributed to increased pollution from the factory. But as I mentioned earlier, there's been a lot of surveillance. It started immediately after the application of the application procedure, and we will continue to call for information from the company on the aspects involved in the factory business. Actually, it was the first thing I did when I came to the Ministry. For Thorsil, that is also a concern. I've said that in public, and again I'm saying, "I don't like these diatoms. I would have wished that the government that decided to grant these companies the right to implement their projects here in Iceland would not have done so. But I have to respect the national administration, but I can comfort you. A senator and stress that we will monitor these factories very closely. We will not allow continued work permit if they exceed the pollution coverts they have permitted from their former government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. However, I would like to catch up with the inhabitants of the area, and there are more people in the area who have them. I'd like to reiterate my second question to three teams. What will a minister do to meet residents of the city of Rhines, who do not want this contaminating industry in their backyard? Would it be possible to eliminate the value of the government's investment agreement with Thorsil? Which other leads to the highest. A minister to meet such people? How's the top? Minister to ensure that residents of Smoketown receive the doubt, which is, of course, important?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u42	A respectable president. I kind of have to continue to point in the previous answer. Of course, it is a little difficult to get to the point, to come to the moment that elected agents in the town of Smokenes have the authority, the power of their authority, managed to grant permission for this silica plant. I wish I hadn't. I would have wished that residents in the city of Smokenes would have chosen more environmentalists who would not have allowed this to happen. But here's the situation. Is it possible to cancel your investment agreement? asks why. Senator. I have answered and returned that I must respect the government of the country and the decisions made by the former governments, even though it is contrary to me. Of course, local people want and are entitled to clean air. The EEA is, as previously stated, in intensive care, and we are closely monitored by a disease - control doctor to determine if pollution should exceed the permitted limits and, if so, will take action. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u43	A respectable president. The labor strike has now lasted more than a month and a half and is having a broad impact on the rural areas that depend on the seaside. In some cases it is that 40% of their income comes indirectly or directly from a seabed, as noted in an interview with Páll Björgvin Guðmundsson, mayor of the Far East in the morning newspaper. As a result of the strike, many of these communities have maintained considerable uncertainty regarding investments and sharing. Clearly, fishermen and their families are affected by the strike, and fish workers are now in serious trouble. In addition, foreign markets are being lost because fresh fish cannot be found. That's why I want to ask the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers: Has the Ministry determined how long the seaman strike can last without causing permanent damage in these communities? Second, have the minister had the damage calculated in these settlements, and what national losses are due to the seaman strike? Third, is the minister's discretion trying to help solve the seaman strike? If so, how so? And fourth: Is there a demonstration of counter measures in these settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u44	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'll worry about it. paritaprevir The Lilja Alfreðsdóttir of the vast impact of sailors' work has on Icelandic society and Icelandic employment. We're not only talking about the fishing ships and the fish business that I'm worried about, the fish workers, but also as much as the secondary work we've seen that will spring up through innovation, new markets, etc. The strike has a broad impact on the rural areas, both in the country and also in the urban areas, and on people who have educated themselves to promote and support the seas. These are four questions. A senator asks me about it. Have we appreciated how this affects our communities? We haven't started a formal job yet, but we've discussed it within our order how and if we can bring some counter measures. But like a dog. A senator may know that his language is inclusive. Gone, unfortunately, from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry, but this is a normal partnership between the schemes involved in these issues and conversations with rural society. It is clear that we will examine the impact of the strike, especially on the scattered areas of the country where the economy is less complex than on the southwest corner. We simply need to recognize it and see what you can do to support your rural society. But I would like to emphasize what I have said, and consider it dangerous to do, for why. A senator asks: "Is it a problem? So a senator would talk about us coming into the dispute by means of some specific procedure? In case of a moment. A senator is talking about that, I say no. In case of a moment. A senator is talking about putting laws on the sailor strike again, I say no. In the long run, even shorter, it is important that the government send a clear message to the labour market debate. It's their job to handle this strike, what we can do in particular is to incite people to action, let people take responsibility in solving disputes. [[The president calls.]] I think it's ancient business to let the state come into this the way the situation is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. However, I would have liked to have a slightly clearer answer. I am disappointed that the Ministry has not advanced the scale of this big case, the impact it will have on these settlements, and the national impact of the seaman strike on us. I would have thought it was top priority. Ministers to proceed with this and give a little clearer answer to the council. The strike has now lasted a month and a half. I'm amazed that our policy has not been clearer and that no more work has been done on this matter. I'm surprised. We know that the fishing currency industry is extremely high. For many communities, it is a matter of life's worth that this strike solves. So I would have thought that the minister would be better prepared to answer this than with the answers we have received here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u46	V.E.G. President. I think it's very serious if the senators want in the middle of a fight that politicians are sending a very clear message into the controversies. I think that's very dangerous. I underscore what I said earlier, of course, we've begun to prepare an evaluation of measures that may need to be performed and see how the strike will have a shorter and longer effect on the rest of the scattered areas of the country. But I think it's dangerous if any member of the council where they stand, we're going to make these laws, which are directed into the controversies, for example. To set out a specific reference for the price of oil, which is a hot potato in these woods. I warn that politicians get involved in this dispute directly or indirectly. We're ready to go to sea and land and like a dog. A senator knows that the Ministry over the years has been properly controlled, and this continues to be the case. We are ready to defend and strengthen the scattered areas of the land now as ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister of foreign affairs for quick action and for having seen fit to participate in this special discussion today. How important it is that the International Parliament discuss the reactions we find appropriate to the events that have taken place in the United States recently! Indeed, Donald Trumps's office as president of the United States has caused a tremor in the international community. During his first week in office, he has ordered a considerable amount of controversial directives, not to be considered further, on a number of international interests, especially as for human rights, business contracts, and international commitments, which include Iceland. party to. I'd like to focus my attention on the environment and policy of the United States and on the effects of an operation on the EEA will affect the climatic commitments of Iceland. Member State but Donald Trump has ordered that funding for the Agency should be added to the nail. Climate is one of the major issues of the 21st century. Once the president has expressed his opinion, i.e. that he is not interested in enforcing, what will Iceland's response be? What will be the highest response. Secretary of State on this? I believe this is one of the most important challenges of the 21st century. Second, I want to talk about the isolationism we see in the United States. Donald Trump has started talking about a wall on the Mexican border. We have discussed bans against immigrants, as well as the implementation of certain citizens, those born in certain lands. I think it's extremely dangerous. It is very important for the government to judge the order for refugees not to be allowed into the country, including them. People from Syria, and that immigrants who even have the green card, even if they have lived a long time in the United States, are not allowed into the country, as discussed here yesterday. It is one basic layer of human rights that all should be equal to the law and that there should not be discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, ethnic background, which is very important in this context, or religion. I'd like a clearer response from the highest. Minister: How will he use human rights to be respected in this regard? These five minutes are very fast, but I would like to focus on women's rights in the United States. The foreign policy of Iceland has been the focus of women's sexual rights, women's freedom, the involvement of women in politics and the authority of women. Ex-fiancé. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, for example, began the program. Barbershop project, and more of that. It's going to take a lot of cutback on women's health care. In particular, I refer to the availability of abortions, not only in the United States, which is a very serious matter, but also in developing countries. We're looking at a very serious development in my opinion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State whether he will try to discuss the matter in particular when speaking to the U.S. government because I believe it is one of the key elements of a democratic community that women's rights are guaranteed. Also need to be discussed in torture. I guess Donald Trump is interested in restarting torture. How will this fit into the Icelandic values or the international commitments we are in? I could have done this much longer, but unfortunately, things didn't work out. I hope that the discussion will be good and that more will be revealed. It is clear that Iceland has to be very clear that certain behavior in the international community is not acceptable, especially when it comes to impaired human rights, basic human rights, when it comes to torture, when it comes to impaired women's rights, and especially when it comes to climate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u48	A respectable president. The paper in Icelandic foreign policy is and has always been respected for human rights, democracy and the rules of the legal state. These fundamentalists can crystallize in what we simply call freedom; freedom to rage and freedom to action. This is the value available internationally by Iceland, and these are the values we have shared with our friends and closest allies in the West from the Republic of Germany. The United States has always been a leading force in these areas, and we and other free democratic nations have looked to the United States as examples. The key institutions in the international community protect these values, and the relationship between Iceland and the United States has always been a solid foundation. During his farewell address on the city of Ronald Reagans, former president of the United States, in 1989, he quoted the words of the 16th - century freedomman John Winthrops when he spoke of his guide to the city on the hill, the society of proud people, from all over the world of rock that never fell or bellowed, despite birth and challenges. Reagan said that the rock city was still in her firm place and that she was still attracted to the sexier freedoms that found her home. This is a description of the United States that we know. Now there are new rulers at the White House in Washington. Iceland, of course, will strive to best communicate with President Donald Trumpur of the United States. The thought of a friend who is in trouble is expressed in the wisdom of Haviva, and in Iceland, there is a government that simply says, "We expect America more than others when it comes to freedom and human rights. " The U.S. President's order and its implementation this weekend are an enormous disappointment. The United States has turned around. It is a responsibility to continue on that journey. President. Our common interests and interests in the United States depend on security, north, climate, and trade. But the basis for all of this is human rights. I would like to emphasize that as soon as we take care to ensure Iceland's interest in new rulers in the United States, we will also be careful to protect the values that have led our nations together through the decades. The response of the U.S. President's decree to the ban on land travel and the capture of refugees from certain countries has been clear and balanced and consistent with the response in the North and around Europe. The government of Iceland laments this directive, and it expresses deep concern about the consequences it may have in international affairs as well as in special interests. Clearly, the United States has always welcomed most immigrants, who have again developed their community structure in that country. So this directive will blow our minds. New rulers in the United States care about the safety of their citizens. Indeed, security purposes are very important, and the world's countries, unfortunately, agree that the threat of Western terrorism is increasing. But shutting down the border of people who are running from war and who make up between people on the grounds of nationality or religion is a difficult way to communicate. Earlier today, I presented our position with the U.S. government at a meeting I had with Benjamin Ziff, assistant minister of the U.S. State Department of State, as well as the U.S. High Commissioner of the United States here. There I expressed my deep concern for this matter and that the United States is flexing the way of tolerance and equality. A respectable president. I do not want to let it pass on another matter that has led to great disappointment and is associated with another U.S. President's decree that no longer be allowed to give financial support to organizations or institutions that in some way provide information on abortion or provide access to safe abortion abroad. These are important human rights matters and are not the least of women's right to have their own body. So the U.S. President's decree is surprising, and I presented my objections to the U.S. secretary of the United States for this matter. A respectable president. We live in critical times. Whether you look toward western, east, Europe, or the new market in the Far East, the challenges are many. In a sense, there is a changed situation on the world scene. We see this clearly in the United States. When such weather strains are present, we hold firmly to the fundamental values we define. We'll talk it over and start with what's wrong. We protest with determination and conviction, and we put forth great effort. Money has nothing to do with anything and little to add. We meet challenges in international cooperation and in the pursuit of interest, where there is a clear basis for freedom, democracy, and human rights. In these areas, we make more demands for the United States than others do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta the Guðrún Helgadóttir for starting this special discussion. The decree of the new President of the United States, signed on Friday and was immediately applied, has aroused a tremendous response and hostility throughout the world and in the United States itself, without any condemnation from the President of the United States to close the national border to the peoples of certain countries as well as to the inhabitants of a single country, in this case of Syria, where many million are fleeing from a terrible civil war. But let us also remember that much of our refugees are women and children. The current prime minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, congratulated the U.S. president on the terms and rights, by the permission of a president, the national community of the same values; respect for freedom, democracy, human rights, and the justice. That's why it's nice to hear from the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs here speaks of exactly the same value. But when you look at a response, it's the highest. The minister of the last few days would do well to consider who they have been. Sadly, they were slow and ill, so the minister emphasized picking up Twetter and writing records on Facebook for the whole weekend. When he was involved on Sunday night, whether this would call for an intense response from the government of the United States. The minister of foreign affairs has made known on behalf of the United States government, who would deliver these messages and comments and protest directly to the U.S. government, which he did today with one of the U.S. vice - generals. I leave my conversation with the best man at the highest. Ministers have made clear protests against them. I thank him for that. But what is the real impact of these inhuman decisions made by the President of the United States, who truly violate basic human rights and democracy and our respect for freedom and justice, on our relationship with our Icelanders, the United States? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to get a clearer explanation for it ending much at stake for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For taking the initiative in this special discussion, you must study the Bible with Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir. This has been very clear since the beginning of this matter, in the case of all the executives who have expressed themselves, that the Icelandic government is opposed to the traveling president of the United States. This is not, and it has also been made clear, not in the spirit of the liberalness established by the Icelandic government. We have also made it clear that the way the President of the United States is going here is not a good way to combat international terrorism. When this is the case, it is vital that we try to understand the meaning of it. The fact is that there is a measure of agitation in the United States, which in the long term does not mean what this means. That is why I immediately asked for the chairman of the State Department for the legal value of Trumpur's directive and how it would be less and longer, how this action would have affected or might have affected the Icelandic citizen for a longer and shorter time, and whether anyone had been or might have become stranded in this country because of these measures and where it might be possible. They're working on it. Enlightenment includes to make it easier for governments to cover this matter in an informed and balanced way. Mr. President. We need to look at the whole thing. We must speak firmly to the values for which we are a free spirit society, for human rights, and for the importance of protecting the state of justice. We must talk, act out responsibility, take care of ourselves. We do this by looking for the necessary information on the subject and, based on that information, by determining the right and credible response. We thus set a good example and take care of our credibility. [[The president calls.]] Hate does not solve rage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u51	A respectable president. The relationship between Iceland and the United States has been special and strong over the years. The United States' acceptance of its independence was a key to its establishment and followed by other nations. Businesses and investments have been high over the years and may include 24% of all the tourists coming here in the country are Americans and 8.4% of our freight export is entering the United States market. The 1951 defense agreement with the United States is in full force and has served the interests of both countries and has been our international alliance as one of the key elements of a new national security policy. As all of us are aware, the new president of the United States is in charge of changing policies in regard to the arrival of refugees in the United States, business contracts and security issues. He stresses that all policies aim to put U.S. interests first. Therefore, it is not surprising that in view of the position of superiority that the United States has for its scale and so much the impact on global security and protection that many are asking themselves what this change means to its interests or to the local states. As far as I'm concerned, we need to examine how a new business policy in the United States deals with Icelandic interests and whether business politics may get worse because of this. Current negotiations need to be determined and whether there may be any change in the availability of American markets and commerce. The safety and protection issues are the same. I would like to state that I am deeply concerned about the temporary decree, which is guided by the prohibition against certain nations to come to the United States. Such elimination may have the opposite effect on the individual population and may even increase the likelihood of disaster. As many have mentioned, all of us were shocked by the fact that Meisam Rafei could not have competed at a large tournament in Taekwondo. I am delighted that the Icelandic government has taken such a firm stand, no doubt expressing protests. But it is extremely important that we be followed, and that we closely follow the way the changed business policy, the change of direction for the arrival of refugees, and the arrival of certain citizens from certain countries have been in international politics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u52	A respectable president. A bright future has spoken for international rights and peace and that Iceland will advocate human rights, equality, and international peace. We want Iceland to become an example of its radicalness in these matters. Yesterday, reports from an Icelandic citizen born in Iran were received. He was on his way to the United States to compete at the Taekwondo tournament for Iceland. He was denied permission to return to the United States and dismissed from a flight at Keflavour Airport because of the orders made by President Donald Trumpur of the United States to forbid people born in certain states to come to the United States. I think he's like I'm a proper Icelander, and I have the same right to protect and freedom as all Icelanders. Lately, reports have been made that members of the highest ranks are being made. Ministers of foreign affairs have described doubts about changes in the Dublin Protocol and that lovers of the welfare system must act harshly. I don't know where the ideas are from. I don't know where they came from. I don't know where they came from. It would be nice to have confirmation of the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs does not agree with such talk. I want less than I can get. A minister has, because I know he's open and righteous, that he's got allies in the Bright Future when it comes to enriching the Icelandic community by welcoming immigrants and that we're going to work hard in this government business to fight to make it easier for people to settle in Iceland. But more is needed, and I trust that the minister will use himself for fine works. These include supporting their own members for fine works and preventing the development of the region, as we look up in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u53	Mr. President. It seems that the new president of the United States is going to do all his campaign promises. That's not good news for the Americans, nor for the rest of the country. If he is not strongly opposed, action in his spirit, emphasis, and decisions will have a major impact here on the country. The result is sure to be negative. The main theme is prejudice, women's contempt, threats, and racism. Donald Trump also intends to defuse American support for climate action, to oppose abortion, extra arms, and military service, and to clear up gun control regulations. There was a time when President Wilson of the United States used increased cooperation with European nations in an effort to promote lasting peace. But Trump's marching in the opposite direction. Is his course likely to improve the prospects for peace? On the contrary. He's practically promoting war. What can you do to stop him? What is required in order to return as soon as possible a democratic election in one of the world's most powerful kingdoms? The U.S. Congress may decide to stop supporting the President. Most likely, there will be a great deal of effort to do so. It seems the only way that other democracies and peace - loving nations will come together and act against Donald Trumpur's government, hinder its evil plans, and assist the democratic powers of the United States to bring their understanding to those who now rule it. There we Icelanders are to speak in no uncertain terms like the Supreme Court. Secretary of state did this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u54	The president's request is that the subject appears to have been in the time computer to keep flashing in red light. In other words, there is some technical trouble in that case. (Pray forward.) I hope it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u55	[[Up front.]] I hope this works.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u56	Mr. President. One of the greatest documents in the Cold War is a telegram sent by George Kennan, a embassy in the U.S. embassy in Moscow, U.S.A., to his minister of foreign affairs in February 1946, where he said that the Soviet Union was an antitheocal force against a liberal attitude with a plan for spreading it in the inhabited earth. Set the Kenna to correct approach on the part of the United States, it would be to stop the spread of Communism. There's been so much policy. Now I realize that the new U.S. government is not an isolated phenomenon but a part of the spread of a new anti-Semitic power against a liberal attitude in the West. It is true that we ask ourselves, " What is the normal response to Iceland? ' In addition to condemnation of anti-cultural and systematic violations of human rights, Iceland needs to have a view of a land that is developing in economic and cultural isolation policies, enforcing alienism and religious fanaticism, and no one today knows how far it will go. Will the United States withdraw from NATO or violate its commitments to NATO? Will the United States resign from the United Nations, as threatened, or change the nature of its dealings with them? Will America turn their backs on a vacation store? What, then, will happen to the International Business Office? What about other international institutions? The future is unclear on all these matters. It's important to get answers. But in some of this, there is an opportunity for Iceland, at a different risk, but in all of this there's an enormous uncertainty. Therefore, it would be advisable for the secretary of state to appoint some kind of response group to work on the stage of this action plan, both in the interest of Iceland's interests and in the interests of mankind. What will Iceland do to stop the spread of this barbaric power?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u57	V.E.G. President. We have observed grief in our hearts too often by the unpleasant actions of a few countries. There's no less tragedy now. Because while the State is well, disappointments are even greater. V.E.G. Ministers of State and other ministers of ours have firmly mourned the action of the president. It's good and important. Someone feels that it's not enough. I guess not. What is a tender and tactful di·loʹa, apparently, when the sense of justice is perfectly offended? Of course, anger wants a more decisive course. But what should the government do besides use a diplomatic position to promote protests firmly? What else? Business or political breakup? Would that benefit you? Hardly. Iceland's foreign policy has for decades been based on open contact with as many countries as possible, including the states that violate our values. It's a good policy. It is a policy that believes that by doing so, it will be clear to human rights, freedom, information, tolerance to describe a way of life where there is a need. This is for the reasons e.g. In spite of many violations of human rights, the government made a free trade with China. The same reasons apply today too. It's in the state of open communication, of universal importance, where it's more likely that we can affect human rights protection in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u58	Madam President. I think it is safe to say that the first days of the new president of the United States have caused concern for the state of the environment here at the beginning of the 21st century as well as for human rights in the world. Of course, in Iceland we must talk about it. We are often looked to because of the results of women's freedoms. It is vital that we speak in clear language on a global scale. That's why I was happy to hear the highest. The minister of the State explained that he had protested protests to U.S. officials for the orders of women's rights to form their own bodies. But there is something else about the human rights issue that needs concern. I think it's a very dangerous political development to get people out of line because of the origin of people and religion, as the directive does. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. When it came to this matter, the minister of the minister of the foreign people used such words as the ◯harma's and has concern over them. I don't know if these were really the shades of the language that went there or if he did not use such strong words when it came to these matters. That's what I want to say. A minister of these matters, stressing that it is not enough to regret that people are being dejected because of their background; rather, they must be objected too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u59	A respectable president. It was reported yesterday that an Icelandic citizen was stopped on his way to the United States, where he was to compete for Iceland's hand at a sports tournament. How powerfully we all must protest! It is this meeting here that gives you the right to an Icelandic citizen, either directly or indirectly through the government system, not the governments of other countries. Yesterday I heard Australia's prime minister promise that the Australians in that position would get to the United States without delay. Britain's Ministry of Presidency made a similar statement. Whether these promises hold such a matter, but it must be necessary for our government to work for the same purpose, that foreign governments do not party to our own citizens according to their origin. In many ways, the United States is a great nation. They led to the struggle against Communism. That is where many ideas, liberal ideas, born and evolved, whether of women's freedom, environment, homosexual rights, or attitude toward drugs. The international situation has, in my opinion, made the world a better, more liberal place. But now there is a danger of changing the course. In his speech at the British Parliament, David Cameron, when speaking of British exits from the European Union, opposed a journey like me, said that now there is no time to go up west. That's where I agree with him. Unfortunately, the resulting wave will not lead to some sober vacation agreements but, rather, a worse course. That's not good. And in view of what has been going on, it is necessary for us to take good care of cultivating other support, not just this US support, but the rest of our foreign policy, and then I'm referring to the Norwegian cooperation and cooperation of other European countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u60	A respectable president. The political situation in the United States, where the U.S. national anthem says: "The country of the free and brave. " You don't feel free and brave in the United States right now, especially with a newly elected president. Rather, there seems to be some ideas about claustrophobism, anxiety about what is unknown to him, and how he can avoid getting to know it. I think it's important for us to strengthen and give much support to our fine foreign minister on the road ahead. I think the Minister did well in expressing our views. But I know that if you've been in charge of this department, you have to continue to do so. I have every confidence that the Minister will. There is something special to hear and to see that people in the United States are in a denial of the climate problem. We know, though, that there are dozens if not hundreds of countries that will continue to bear that light. If the United States does not exist, it is their problem and our other problem, of course, but we do not give up. There are other countries that would bear the torch and be there on the front lines. I'm worried about the business, of course, like everybody else. I'm also worried about the human rights. This is a strange message coming from the land of the free and brave, but like the highest. Minister said a friend is the one who says "whacking." We need to keep on doing so. I'm concerned with what kind of policy this new government will take when it comes to security and defense. They have been one of the key elements of our relationship with the United States. The outcome is not clear. However, it is totally unacceptable if Icelandic citizens are put on a list or are not allowed to travel because of their background, where they are born, or where they are connected. I know that, and I trust it to the highest. A minister will protect their rights, as is the rights of all of us. But this is the democracy in America. The Americans chose this government. We don't get much change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u61	A respectable president. There is cold winds from the west, a bitter wind as a whisper, as the poet said, and it sets us with a creepy chill. It has truly become a hammock. What we at best threw fun at, shaking our heads over, and counting telecommunications a few months ago have become a reality. We will see that in one of the most powerful powers of the world, there are universal social rights to feet, in a state that teaches itself to free thinking, initiatives, and individual freedoms to word and act. It is now outrun, in this pit of human life and ethnic crime, in a land that is actually inhabited by immigrants from all over the world, a mixture of peaceful people in later times. Visiting can be controlled and the world itself is stunned, it appears to be a government crisis. Disrespect for people's private life is revealed and conduct and presentation of the President are marked by human contempt. This is happening in the United States of North America, which has been a close team of Icelanders for decades, and the great plan of national leader is affecting Iceland's people, vulnerable to sports. Large groups, even on the political field, view the United States as the Promised Land and have made rare pilgrimages west into it, promised its wonderfulness in speech and literature, cremated on the altar of capitalism in awe, and wished to bring as many of the values held here. They even have two masks on them, and I say, "No thanks, no more. " Our message needs to be clear and dead. [[The president calls.]] We reject the view that the new president maintains, rejects the contempt promoted by a new president, and we reject the fear, fear, and hatred that come upon us. [[The president calls.]] The North are now able to show valuable solidarity, alone or among other European countries. It would be worthy of initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you for sharing in this special discussion. She should have been a lot longer because there's a lot we have to talk about here. We need to talk about how Iceland's gonna react. I would especially like to agree with the last speaker, w. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Brunsson. We reject what is happening in the United States. We reject the loss of human rights and dignity that is taking place in the United States as it stands under the guidance of Donald Trumps. We need to use the proper words when appropriate. V.E.G. Secretary of state doesn't want to use a fancy word. But it is important that we use words and use them properly and with the courage to use them when appropriate. I think it's a key point in this discussion that we start using the words and the words I think best describe the government of President Donald Trumps. Donald Trump is a fascist. It's just that way. That is the correct word to describe his seat as president of the United States for a few days. It is the correct word to describe the events that have occurred in the United States. It is the correct word to describe that disrespect for human rights, women's rights, international commitments, and people and other countries. Let us use the correct words when appropriate: Donald Trump is a fascist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u63	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you for this discussion. What I always felt would shine through is that we agree on certain fundamental values that we build our society on, and I hope that that harmony will continue. I think we should look more at what's happening in the world than we've done before. Perhaps we do so because there are many clouds in the air. But that should not really be the reason. It really matters what happens around us, and it affects all of us. I think what Iceland, which was the nature of the situation when we entered the United Nations, can do to be a good international success, is to set a good example, speak to the values we have spoken about here, and talk about it out of modesty and balance. I think it's very likely that this is how we want people to treat us and other nations. I think the discussion would be better, not just in this room, but everywhere, if it were a general rule. There are many things you can disagree with. You can strongly disagree with others. We disagree in this room. We disagree with things that democratic elected representatives around the world say and do. But I don't think it's going to work if we're gonna have gimmicks and names. A respectable president. To me, it is very clear, as mentioned here, for example. The important thing to do is to work in the north. Many felt that it would even end because of other factors. Something else has been revealed. I think the nations of the world look very much toward the northern countries. Similarly, I think it is extremely important that we contribute to what is the basis for our prosperity, which is a free trade between countries. And out of the inquiries that have come here, men have been both encouraging and warm words to me, I thank you for that, I want to state absolutely clear that we have not stopped fighting for the interests that turn us right now against our citizens and the values we've spoken for and will continue to speak for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's eternal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u64	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 77/2016, review of health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, for the continuation of a validation from the health committee. Instead of the word '- 1'. February 2017, 3rd. The law comes on May 1st, 2017. 2.g. This law has already been valid. According to law No. 77/2016 will be a new health - care system taken up on February 1, 2017. The system aims that health care does not require more than a fixed maximum financial level for health care that will be determined by law. The monthly payment will be paid on health care, and the cost of extra payment is paid by health insurance. This aim is to protect patients from high health care payments. During the past few months, preparation has been made for the introduction of a new financial system in the Ministry and elsewhere. To ensure successful implementation of the system, many factors, such as working with computer systems, programming, and linking between systems, need to be considered. Within the system, a lot of information has to be provided between service hosts and Iceland's health insurance. When preparing for the implementation of the law and in the open consultation procedure on regulations that must be set in order to introduce the system, it has been found that the Ministry's Office and other health care providers need longer to prepare their system change. The problem is mainly with technical implementation such as necessary software change, systems linking between institutions and performing the appropriate bug reports before using the system. It is therefore considered necessary to postpone the execution of the law until May 1. On the welfare committee, we agree that we will closely monitor the preparation of the situation until implementation and give high priority to the implementation of the whole law on May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u65	Madam President. As we have heard, it has been reported that there is a need to postpone the implementation of these laws, since computer systems are not ready. Iceland's health insurance and health care of the capital area agree that there is not enough time to introduce the changes by February 1, which is tomorrow. The reason for the postponement seems to be that the regulations are not fully prepared or that are mainly the regulation on a new reference system. There seems to be rather conflicting opinions as to whether the payment system directive is ready or not, which in itself is a very strange case in which Iceland's health insurance would like to deny that it is not ready but the Ministry says it is ready. There's something that needs to be examined. According to Iceland's health insurance, three months from the sentence of a payment system to prepare the system change and ensure successful implementation are required. I'm concerned that the Ministry expects the law to take effect on May 1 when there is uncertainty as to whether the Regulation is actually under way. In his review of the bill, Iceland's Health Insurance claims that there is a lot of uncertainty over funding for the project, and it shows that cost estimates were not made for the final move of the billion to which it was agreed on as a system change. There was also a lack of information on possible government funds for the payment of the system. It says, with permission from the President: In accordance with the existing programme, there is a demand for health insurance according to the new system for contracting training and medical costs of 1.6-6.0 million. K. This budget reflects the difference between the total price and the share of health insurance at the expense of the ministry. IT IS recalculation to estimated total costs for the introduction of the new payment system and should be submitted later this week. I've been asking the Ministry for information on cost prices and possible financial support and waiting for answers. The most important point that struck me in the information collection that was needed for the very short time that the welfare committee was given to study this case was the description of the national surgeon's Regulation on the payment system. A surgeon made it clear that the regulations he received were so complex that he could not read them for his own benefit. The rules were incomprehensible to him. I don't think it's entirely unacceptable that we don't have a transparent state in our regulations. How can the public be enlightened about their rights when the Regulation is incomprehensible? Such a transparency gives rise to suspicion that something is being hidden and undermines confidence in the administration. I sincerely hope to the highest. A minister will take advantage of this and recommend that he sit down with a surgeon who said he had ideas about how to simplify the Regulation. Another part of this law is a new reference system that seems to be according to Iceland's Health Care Center and the capital environment's health care, which is even more complicated to introduce than the credit factor system, where a new interface is needed to be programmed from the ground. It has made clear to Iceland's health insurance that the need is six months from the rules of Regulation to put the system in place, but this Regulation has not been set. It has been noted that references can be handwritten if the computer system is not ready on time. The general health care of the capital area has expressed concern that she is not equipped to accept these references because of lack of funds and a lack of resources, while surgeons have declared that it is better to start using the reference system along with a new system of payment despite the lack of completion of the attitude and that health care will soon be adapted to a new system. I think it is important to have both Iceland's health insurance and health care in the capital area decided that it is best to introduce the system as soon as possible but that the system does not get unnecessary criticism, it would be best to introduce the payment system on May 1, but wait only with the reference system and allow experts to develop it after the Regulation has been established. This, in effect, seems to me to be a practical solution and will put me in line for the possibility that the option will be considered within the committee. As you will see, there is much to be observed in the months ahead until these laws take effect. In order for the Committee to perform its surveillance work, I have asked for accurate interpretation of the tasks needed to complete in order for the law to be effective on May 1, as well as a timeline for each part of the project. I have also requested monthly information from the Ministry on the status of the project. I received very inaccurate answers from the Ministry on the project, so I asked for a more precise time - appointed schedule or some sort of flow algorithm and received the following answers, with permission of the president: There is no timed publication or a more precise schedule here, unfortunately. I hope the rules will be ready in the next few days, and health insurance is working the programming as fast as possible. I wondered, " How does the Ministry work on such an important project and have a perspective without any scheduled schedule? ' This does not make me feel confident, and I understand why. The head of the Nichole Leigh Mosty committee agrees with me. I expect it will also use the Ministry to provide relevant information to the Committee to enable the Commission to keep a proper eye on the subject. It has been made clear that there is a need to postpone the implementation of this law on May 1 and to support the decision made by the Committee, but I will closely monitor this matter and continue to press down the information and encourage other members of the committee to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u66	Madam President. I'm sorry that there has to be a delay in the implementation of this system change, which has a long history and a good political solidarity, despite all the efforts to introduce here at the council last spring after much work on the then welfare committee. The political agreement was dedicated because it was decided to spend more money to introduce this system change rather than that the bill as it turned out expected that this would actually be costless, so that the roofs that cost individuals for unhearably high health costs would be paid, in effect, by the increased payback of less medical staff and at lower medical costs. It was suggested that these roofs be over $90,000. and then the pay of the elderly and the desperate, and the children's 2/3 of that which would have meant that large groups had taken on a substantial increase in the cost of the system. It thought we were unacceptable a lot of 'em. The same was true of various patients' organisations as at work. The result was that there was an increase in the amount of money in the system so that the roofs did not exceed 50 of you. K. The cost of a year. The second, however, was a conspiracy to advance the matter as a whole, both the roof of health costs and the reference obligations that come into existence, so that the child's cost must be reduced to specialists or to other facilities in a more specialized health care service with a referral from a family physician or clinic. Both changes are very important to me. They were paying attention to this, and I will emphasize that they will continue to do so. Many would like to present this point of reference to a cat's nose. I'm not going to name any names or groups in that subject. Unfortunately, it is as if less emphasis was put on preparing the introduction of that part of the matter, perhaps to some extent more than the induction of the expenses. It says that the only thing that can be decided now, and I believe that it is wise to do so, is that we postpone the taking of the whole case to May 1 and hope that men will be successful in the next weeks and months so that no further postponement will be necessary. If we say so in human terms, I think that those who do this work will benefit from finding the pressure from the General that we want this change to come about as soon as possible. That, in my opinion, is very important. This should be followed, and to some extent it has been achieved, funds, and health care support so that it can strengthen and prepare more fully for this role, thus keeping up with the name as the first site in the medical system. Our health system has long been that way, and the meaning has been that it was thus built up. But this has been a crime, as we know it. In many ways there are positive health - care reports, e.g. Here in the capital area, it is far better equipped to handle this role now than it was a year ago. It is a cause for rejoicing. Then we have to hope that the same health insurance will be able to put all these changes together so that they will succeed on May 1. If something else occurs up to May 1, the welfare committee will be keeping close watch on the progress of the case and will then be there to take action if necessary. I'd like to say for my part that this is, of course, just a step, a stage on a longer trip, which aims to make our system more righteous in this respect, more reasonable. It was and is, in effect, still terribly unjust how different this cost can be spread. We know the news of unrecognizable expenses that can happen to patients or their families in the same system. It is truly incomprehensible in a country that hopefully wishes to have a powerful public health system that gives all services, preferably completely regardless of economic circumstances, at least to the extent that it does not cause one to refuse the service or to have to go wrong in case of health problems within families. What needs to be done is not just finishing this case and implementing it, but the result is that we have reached both medical expenses, on our own, and at other medical costs. Both are making a great improvement. Of course, it would be best to add up to one total so that health costs, regardless of whether they are due to purchases or because there is a need for specialists, research, and so forth, would be below one uniform roof. At that time, I will have to check the expenses, such as dental expenses, and I will mention the travel expenses of patients from the country. Of course, he should be under the roof in this respect too. Another is discrimination. In some cases on a farm, in other cases for other reasons. First, we could truthfully say that we have reached this point when all these health - related costs, whether drug or other health costs, or because of the need to serve with expensive travel, and regardless of the nature of the illness, are subject to one balance of expenses. It should be moderate and through it would have to be successful in reducing the overall health costs of individuals. He's too tall in Iceland as we know and now we don't have to think about it for a reason. Last month, members of Congress, all of whom were engaged in a campaign. Each person began to feel that the health of the health system and to reduce the cost of patient participation. That's the money they need. If we are not going to pick them up in the pockets of patients, we will need them. It's that simple. Then, who are faced with the big words and who is evaporating when a person faces the cost of his promises? We'll see about that. It is true, as discussed in the preceding articles, that there could be some lack of appreciation for the cost of the induction. So it may be that the $1 billion funded by the year does not stumble, even if the change does not take effect until May 1, but is even more expensive, when all of this is agreed to fail to operate the system for eight months this year. Then they have time to spend the spring, to get into the stitches of it better. Then, at some point in March, April, if more money is missing, more money is available in this year to start May 1 and then we'll face it. However, in view of circumstances that are not the ones we would have wanted for ourselves, I recommend that men agree with what is proposed by a health committee, that the conversion of the entire transition will be postponed to May 1 and that this will not be separated but will be attempted to complete it as one package.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u67	A respectable president. A few points have appeared here, and I thank you for this discussion. I'd like to highlight what this delay means, why we're discussing May 1 and not six months on account of the system. This is because it is thought to be necessary - the bill says: ◯ This is the means of protecting patients from very high health - care payments. There's a call from the people. I think it's our responsibility to deal with that. Regarding the system: Former health minister emphasized that the reference system should be used simultaneously with the credit system. According to information we have from the Ministry and anyone who's planted the committee, the payment system is now ready for the test run of the month, which means it will be ready on May 1. Which means, if I may speak human language here, that you have to spit in your hands and do something about the reference system. The information we've received from the Ministry is that we found in Iceland's health insurance insurance on payment systems has shown that a reference system can be prepared as part of a written reference system until the computer system is ready for reference. The idea was that unless a program for the reference system could be completed by May 1, this would be taken away by the above - mentioned way until the computer system is ready. I think we need to consider patients primarily. That's what this postponement of the taking of the law is about. I recommend that we postpone validation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for this discussion and why. porter Nichole... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I've had so many deaths that my own name has been mispronounced that it's a good thing for me to throw in the guard. [[Up front.]] Nichole Leigh Mosty. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the light of her words, for my information, that there is a first and foremost need to consider patients in this regard. I'd like to state that I'm very bound with the demands of the delayed change, that these roofs will be applied. But has this delay been determined in some way to determine whether the patients will be affected? There's an assessment of the impact, the payment system and the cost of it, etc., but there's no attempt to assess the impact on the users of the service. Is there any reason to wonder whether this will mean that some will even have to delay some action or look for a service until the roof is established? I'd like to state that it seems like I'm the one to agree to the motion, the case is there. But I wanted to get an explanation for this and if it was something I needed. A welfare committee would have examined or would have been reported in some information from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u69	I have to admit that we didn't go in so deep into it, going all into the system as a whole. What the bill does is that it puts these systems in place and the thinking behind them is that health care will become first reception, first stop, and we'll start to provide better service from the system's induction. One part of that is the start of the payment program. In terms of delay of action and so on, there was nothing that happened to the interviewers who came to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-20.u70	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a change in law No. 77/2016, review of health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, delay of validation. This is to say, delay in the inclusion of a lower health care department and delay in the induction of a health care system involved in making the health care clinic the patient's first stop. Of course, it is not good for us to postpone our intake, but it is necessary in the light of circumstances. We all know that this was a special situation. A fall. Here were autumn elections, and there were people in full - time campaigns and other jobs. The rule came in late from the ex-fifth. Secretary of health. She went on a story story story. Comments were made that needed to be addressed and the Regulation was submitted again. That is part of the reason why we need to postpone this matter. I'd like to encourage the current highest. A health minister to go to great lengths, so we do not need to postpone the translation of these important rules, since this may have to do with many people in this country. One of the main objectives of this law is to avoid at great expense for many individuals who, for example, have been affected. have been coping with difficult chronic illnesses. We've all heard of cancer patients who have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars a year before treatment. When the law takes effect, it will save for the high cost that patients themselves have had to endure. Me, what. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, was on the welfare committee. For us, when the matter was for material purposes there. It was nice to see the parapolitic work done within the committee as a result of the case in which everyone was in pain. Senators on hold. The welfare committee worked hard to get the story through the committee in as much harmony as possible, and it was successful. When you discussed a bill, you came to what? The welfare committee was the maximum pay factor for the individual by 90 levels. K. That's what we could do. The members of the welfare committee are not willing to accept us. In cooperation with the local community, it's at the highest level. However, the minister of finance and health care, we reached the top of the roof to 50 of yours. K. But then there was another aspect of our concern, i.e. whether health care was in place to accept the role of becoming the first patient's stop. We received, as it happens at the Generals, a number of visitors at a meeting where various experts and staff in this article expressed concern that health care was not equipped to take on this role. Hence, it is a pleasure to say here also that there was a way to strengthen the health care system to hire experts and doctors to shorten a waiting period; for all of us know that we had an appointment to have a doctor's appointment and even had to wait for two weeks. In time, you get better because waiting time is so long. But money was installed to strengthen this role of health care. As long as you can. During the last term, I contacted the heads of several health institutions in the country and asked how it went to strengthen the role of health care to be the first stop for patients. I got the answers that it hadn't worked out well enough. I hope that the time, the three months that we delay the implementation of the law, will allow us to look to the whole health system, that we feel that we have very strong health institutions in many parts of the country with strong support as a operating clinic. Finally, I want to say that I agree. Councilmen here have spoken. Especially will I agree with what happened with the dog. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon that these are just the first important steps on the way we are going. Here we are lowering the pay factor. We have to look to see how we can get more parts into the credit system, and then to have one roof for medicine and medical care. Patient care and travel costs, dentists, and other factors must not be overlooked. But the big steps taken in the cross political reconciliation are to be welcomed. It's a pleasure, and I really hope the law takes effect on May 1 and that we don't have to postpone it again. Once this is legal, we can look ahead and continue to improve factors and strengthen health care.
