ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u1	The president would like to state that he considers it an agreement between the presidents and members of the council that meets today until the discussions on the program are over. The President intends to initiate a vote for a rift in the course of the year. 11th The president wants to announce that he intends to meet with members of Congress this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u2	By letter, dated September 21, 2017, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, by the Management Board and Control Board, that it deals with the following reports of State Reservation: State management innovation: environment, impulse and obstacle; Insidement of public pay; Presidency of Special Services; International Convention on Prevention of Marine Pollution from Ships; Council of the Management Board and the University of Holum Report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u3	A respectable president. What a joy it is that after all this year's work has been like a tug of anger, nothing to be done, and the days have passed long! I hope we don't get into it soon, because the government intends to take the 48-month watch it's taken. I think there is reason to repeat my wishes to the new members of Congress and all of us, to welcome them to the council. I look forward to working with them, just as I am happy to cooperate with my colleagues in the government business. We have high expectations for the government, and the promises are great. In turn, we all keep promises to the first laws of the law, which are made in great haste and at great speed. These are unprecedented times. I think we have to give everyone the opportunity to sit in the chairs, start this thing, and the future will bear that we are going to fulfill the promises and promises we have made. I think it's important that all of us in this room agree on the fine issues presented at the council, whether from smaller parts or more. I think it's important too. I'm very happy that we can deal with it now in this first budget that older citizens get the demands that were their main qualifications for elections, with the lowest individual compensation being 300 of you. K. and that your salary will be at the free market of 100 you. K. It is my hope that peace and harmony will reign with all of us in this hall in the coming days, and I wish us all happy Christmas. Linked Case Hey, 2018 budget, case one, bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u4	Mr. President. I thank you very much for this happy Christmas celebration that I and other members of the council received from it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I come up here to discuss the recent judgment of the Supreme Court, which was quite direct, at the highest level. The minister of justice was sentenced to violate Article 10. Government law. This is an investigation order that is a security rule in the administrative court. As chairman of a board of administration and monitoring committee, I would like to report the procedure approved by a unanimous committee yesterday that would follow this court, which was quite definitive, to say the least. However, it is not only a minister of justice that is responsible for it but also the Generals have to look at themselves in terms of what took place here at the General Assembly this summer. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court leaves absolutely no doubt that under the order of the administration, it is the minister responsible for the project that took place there, and it is the one that appoints for this office. The Commission and monitoring committee will then call to the experts, to review the administrative position of the minister following this case, and this is a very serious case in which a whole level of judgment was under way. I thought it best to inform you and, of course, we'll give you all the more information, with the members of the Board of Directors and Control Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u5	Mr. President. We are now fighting to bring together the sheep, as we have a responsibility. We're going, I think, to decide to raise the government's expenses for at least 54 billion if we look past the financial cost, from what a strategy will tell us to be the result of this year. I understand that even the budget offers suggestions for further expansion. For that reason, I'd like to call attention to an informative interview that Kristján Kristjánsson referred to Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson, a percentage and department president of the University of Iceland's Economics, in an explosion. Sunday. I think it would be good for a man to take time to listen to what Ásgeir Jónsson had to say. By permission of the President, I want to quote Ásgeir's word: ▪ What you are most concerned about during the discussion is that it seems - as the government puts it at the council - that it does not understand how government matters work. The need to spend more money. If we start expanding the state funds at this point in the economy, we're going to be having a filing, raise raise from the Federal Bank, and inflation. How important it is that the State counteracts the pace of life! He also says, under the permission of a president: ▪ What we always talk about is how much money we spend on health care. There are bad standards, because there are countries that spend a lot of money on their health systems, such as the United States, but still have bad systems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u6	It is not with the permission of a president to pass through speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u7	A respectable president. We are in the middle of a discussion of budget for 2018, the first government budget that had a beautiful promise. In the end of the election, these classes, which make up the government, praised the transition. Foreboding would have been the condition of those who were in favor of society, even those who lived in poverty. Scarers, children's families, the elderly. In agreement with the parties, fireworks were launched, major attendances were to be initiated, and all supported - health services, improved transportation, better schools, greater happiness. But what has happened? Nothing. Nothing has happened but the wind seems to be all out of the bladder. There is nothing to happen. The voters have been betrayed again. They bought the cat in the sack. The responses of the government and the answers are, in effect, that good things happen slowly and must be pressed into the economy. This is what they say to the families who are still left behind and who find it difficult to maintain a social well - being for their children. This directs them to the microchip trapped in a trap and avoids ensuring daily living, and the system continues to paralyze all efforts to its own income. Under the same pressure, elderly ones are sold, although the income market should now be raised to 100 you. K. which is also not in harmony with what was promised and includes only a small amount, i.e. A 13% older citizen. The minimum would be all income and thus equality. Despair abounds among health - care professionals, as well as in the country. It is a simple retreat, a humble service. The education system is between hope and fear, and residents of the West can still expect that products will not be marketed, where trucks are removed when roads are unable to drive because of abjection. Mr. President. She's here, you know. Still at the highest. The government has a chance to make things right and to keep up with the big words, and here comes a challenge. [[The president calls.]] The promise is to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u8	Mr. President. To the debate at the top. The prime minister of the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir at the beginning of the assembly mentioned the most important first tests that this government faced. Let's mention this right away, two ministers have failed the first test, which is a legal justice minister for the appointment of judges in the National Court, a very important test. Minister of Justice is sentenced to the Supreme Court for violating a law against a judge's orders. She says: No, of course not. Then there is Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is responsible for the minister, who says she will not call for such. It's falling. This is a fall for the government, or this minister, and this is clearly a fall for the justice system of the country. Two: It is minimal when it comes to health care, to ensure that health institutions have the resources they need. Now we are faced with the bill as ordered by the government, or financial minister, that the National Hospital says that 625 million are missing to keep seawater. The Minister of Health has not yet fallen. There's a lot of expectations for Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the highest. Minister of health, on this matter. There's a lot of expectations for the government of the left green in this case. I hope they don't fail the test. Then we're gonna have a go-ahead. There is also no falling, but there is evidence of where the score is going. V.E.G. A year ago, the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that the law was incorporated into the law that the government's dress and development should be followed by general pay development. No, they didn't put it in the law then. If a prime minister is not aware of that, that is a very bad message. The workforce, the entire labour market organization, is aware of this. Perhaps a minister's misunderstanding, ill - spoken or something, but there is no good knowledge, especially when a minister also says that she does not intend to resort to over-exploitation, beyond what the law allows. [[The president calls.]] Again: Rating is not falling, but let's say that midterm doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u9	V.E.G. President. It was happy news that the main fish stocks in the fishing season are at the climax of history since autumn measurements began in 1996. Since we, as a fishing nation sometimes a sustainable fishing nation, follow the advice given by fishermen, it shows that we are on the right track, although we may always be better. In the fall, there was a show on TV about the loss of fish and revoking of a catch that appeared rather striking. A fish fragility fragility is completely unpleasant and similarly out of moderation in repercussion. There, in that town, there has been a checkout duty, but in that town there are complaints of defects in a regular task that makes it difficult for them to handle the alleged offenses, saying that the penalty is so low that humans can see the benefits of compromising them. In short, regulations about the premium of a country partner on a market are made that do not include water or fish. The premium applies only to the ship that has been sold rather than to the sources and thus has little chance of having a ship that doesn't have goodbye. Although this is only correct, there are virtually no rural communities and few outlaws or companies with the ball volume to use the premium. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, former U.S.A. A seafaring and agricultural minister, set up work in collaboration with a Based agency on these prerogatives. Even there would be. Having discussions with credit institutions for ways of borrowing the companies, cultures and/or rural areas who would be interested in using the premium. V.E.G. President. As I mentioned at the outset, our fishing history with a health certificate on which the international community has put its stamp on is sustainable fishing. For one thing, we must constantly be on guard as to the quality of the resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u10	A respectable president. I will be happy to have a chance to speak up when the sessions of the council first appear on the Council of 148th. I look forward to the work here and know that it is a great responsibility to work at this workplace in which we are working to create the community's setting, the setting that needs to ensure social development and new opportunities. A setting to ensure equal opportunities for individuals, enterprises and communities. I have strong hopes that at the current assembly, it will be successful. Here, there will be solutions that will be worked out with respect to diverse viewpoints. So I take to heart the objective of the Government Treaty to promote the General Assembly in a new way to get the work done in the whole country because circumstances require change, open management, transparency, and respect for projects. I sincerely hope that there will never be a solution in the way of grouping society, class, interest groups, territories, or communities. I believe that the government's focus on education, transportation and health is a failure to work on the community's collective vision and to promote development and innovation. I am impressed that in the short time since the new government began working, the government was able to make a clear impression on the budget of 2018, so that these emphasis can be seen. Environmental and climate issues also play a far - reaching role in the Treaty, and I look forward to the development of climate action programmes here and stress that all participants, especially those with the greatest knowledge of land use and culture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to pick up the column that had been abandoned over a year ago and discuss some of the directional policies of the Bank of Iceland. Thus, in terms of growth, today the Secret Bank determined that fliers should remain unchanged, 4.5%. In the year since my last comment on this subject, some things have happened in Icelandic society. It appears that the economic crisis has reached its peak and we are entering a slow resolution without any dramatic activity. But there is one thing that has not changed this year, that is lack of williness, impotence, and failure of the Secret Bank funds policy committee to have a interest level that is comparable to what happens in neighboring countries. A late banker has left behind two factors in recent interviews: First, we have the happiness, Icelanders, of having high interest levels. I'm sure a lot of people are sitting at home and celebrating the good news that pays here the rate of killing each month, as well as those who run small companies. And then he has also told us that neighboring countries have bank managers lying on their knees, asking to get a similar condition in interest of interest. I'll quote them to Halli and Laddi, by permission of the President, and say, "I'd love to see it. But I actually thought when I saw this, I noticed the money manager that it was still another breathless attempt on his part to support a joke. But I still don't think so. And if it's so that the bank manager is really serious about what he says about this, that we are happy to have the highest interest here in the Western world, that's another example of the wrong guy in the wrong house. He's been there a while, Mr. President. I would now have suggested that he skind his skin as soon as possible if he could not afford to grow in the land that is acceptable to him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u12	Mr. President. In September, that's it. was a financial bill then established by the government at the General Assembly. That bill was called in this hall by the representatives of the left green lame bill and the signal of right starving policy. Then came the election, and all the companies praised all the beautiful things, and they put their emphasis on the voters' table. That's when we got this bill. It's a bill of the left green. And the difference between this bill and the last government bill is exactly 2%. I wondered what kind of fighting was, dear left green. This is the right hunger policy, and this is the new bill. You can see that it's only pinker, but still 98% like the bill here was severely criticized by the left green. A representative of the Micro-Community Association told us at a meeting of the budget board yesterday that the new bill was literally ◯pyr/paste wrote of the first bill, which the left green did not have a word about what was devastating. We can see by the committee that the majority of interest stakeholders are unhappy with the financial bill discussed here. The land hospital is unhappy, the Akureyri Hospital is unhappy, health institutions in the country express intense dissatisfaction with the bill, nursing homes are disgruntled, the older citizen's national union is unsatisfied, the North American Community, ASI, the Union of Icelandic rural society, legislation, etc. Once again, I have to say a tremendous disappointment with this financial bill. That is inconsistencies with what the left green and forwarding party and other groups put on the voters' table, and it is, in particular, to regret that this is the authority, at last, when these groups enter the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u13	Mr. President. First, I'd like to mention that it is a bit risky to hear each member of the board of directors rise up here and say a great shock that in the few weeks since the formation of a new government, she should not have put all her policies into action. A new government started the month and had two weeks to change the budget, and I have to say that there's a lot of optimism. The members of the government's stand if they think that this government, or any government, will soon be able to offer all the suggestions found in its government covenant. This is the beginning of a journey, but we, to which this government stands, view the journey as taking four years and the plans of a government contract. Although there is something said for elections or something that can be found in a government contract that does not appear in a financial bill presented under very special circumstances, there is no need to lose ourselves in some scandalous age here at the council Hall. The other thing I was going to mention on the meeting of an executive and surveillance committee yesterday I was able to serve as a replacement for the recent court of Supreme Court. I think it's right to realize that what the committee needs to do and how to do in this relationship is to first understand what the committee should be doing on such matters. Of course, it is now that the council and the committee have a certain need for monitoring, but a judgment has been made that has taken into account many of the opinions that may arise in connection with the treatment of a case. We need to discuss this, we need to discuss a governmental position, and particularly so do we need to consider whether in some way the judgment will give us a basis for making adjustments, changes in arrangements, or simply because of having a clear explanation of some of the aspects of this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u14	V.E.G. President. Funds seem to be forgotten by local health institutions, and as the council is now planned, there is little room to point to the view that people need to be served and also in the country. We hear that there is a speculative economy for the institutions of the country, and the previous day we heard that residents of the Western Islands are unable to attend a normal home service, and I specifically mention birth service. Yet I understand that doctors are ready to serve in the Western Islands, that is not a problem. Yesterday I heard that visitors from the National Institutes of Health had arranged for a meeting with the branch committee and received about half an hour to explain the importance of the ministry, why should the country be remembered, etc. People think it's okay, e.g. A person from the National Institute of Health gets half an hour to convince them that the ministry is not possible to be cut down. I hope to the highest. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir has got the most beautiful promise, to think of Iceland all over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u15	A respectable president. When I volunteered for a meeting seat, a good friend of mine challenged me to break up the real things in this hall and sing in this famous chair. I think I'll make it wait, but the voice isn't on many fish right now. I like to be one of the eight voices that now sound in the Council. They are all important in their own way. The challenge is to form a harmony that reaches the ears of an audience. The tone given here in the opening theme is of great importance, or as the opening words of a new government contract, with the permission of a president: (For fully formatted text, see publication) There's a lot of work to be done. I got a call from the west yesterday; a truck carrying a Odolian necklace in the Rhoolians because it can't go its way, not because of snow or sharks, but because it doesn't fit the environment. And the road closes. The car belongs to the modern world, the road belongs to the past, and it is one of the ancients of this time. The traffic on the south side of the West is off-limits. There has been a few weeks before Baldur's climate and it won't be back for a few weeks. Flights offer ten seats six times a week. Meanwhile, the inhabitants of southern Western Europe try to maintain modern - day living practices. As in other parts of the country, powerful transportation is an important key to its survival. The state of the Western Sea of Gufudals has to be breached. Action must be speeded up by the greater interests of rural society, industry, and local inhabitants. We can make a harmony about it. Can we all agree on that? I wish a convious Christmas to the Generals and to the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u16	Mr. President. I'm going to talk about the issues. One of the most important things in our board of directors is a non-carbon of 2040 Iceland. This is because of the more serious climate situation and because it is transverse in the main. Work turns toward energy sources in accordance with energy policy. We are talking about better uses and new activations primarily for specific projects. It's turning toward energy transport, i.e. We've got to put up connections all over the country. It's turning toward energy exchange in transport and shipping output. We're talking about electricalization, hydrogen, methadone, methadone that we can produce in large quantities, and we're talking about biodisil, which we can also produce in large quantities. All of this leads to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. We have seen some examples in this regard. In fact, the reduction in emissions of fishing vessels has been seen. It has just been proposed a five - year plan for a lack of carbon space in sheep's flocks. All of these are good hopes. And we're talking about an increase in carbon binding, both by increasing forests, two- or even 4-fold. We are talking about the healing of wastelands and land erosion, the recovery of wetlands, and most important of all the new technologies that have come from carbon dioxide, which can be from geothermal or industrial plants. I'm going to let myself go from the platform to encourage the Generals and the Generals to test these policies. This is not a very long time, but by sticking to them, we can succeed. I don't need to remind you who it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u17	President. During this brief period of time, I would like to call attention to two issues. First, today is 1st. of budgets in 2017. According to official financial law, by permission of the President: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. I cannot see that any of the items laid down in these funding laws meet those requirements, and I wonder how 25 billion more are affected by 2017's budget and budget of 2018, for much of what is found there is not temporary at all. I don't see that this increase in budget 2018 and how this interaction was affected. Number two: This year's lawsuit is a total collapse. It has to be said at the moment. The Ministry of Success received, e.g. 30 minutes to present the welfare and social aspects of the budget. The 1/4 budget in half an hour. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir mentioned that medical institutions had received half an hour. That's not quite true, they had an hour, but there were five of them, and there was even one missing. So it was really an hour in question. In a budget board, they received a statement yesterday that there was a change from the government to the budget. I just thought there was a delay for the government to make its mark on the budget, but now we're waiting for a further adjustment. I find it very interesting, and I'm excited to hear what it will be. We concluded that the laying of the original budget by means of a change would have been relatively inaccurate to the 1st. this year's budget, but obviously we're facing it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u18	V.E.G. President. A financial committee has recently met, and it has to be said, as it is, that in one week, we are performing a job at up to four months. They can see that this is by no means the law of public finance and careful financial preparation. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the budget is an injection into the health system that has been thoroughly introduced by the government, and there are 8,555 million who are expected to enter the medical system. There's nothing going to go to the country. Nothing. As we have seen. The committee visited us from medical institutions in the country. They were five presidents, and they were very unhappy with their share, understandable. Like those in the capital area, local people have the right to have health care. I would also like to call attention to one of these directors, a very interesting language. They told us that they needed to be in good contact with health officials. The way they communicate is that there is no answer. The rulers of the government will answer no questions. It's amazing. If you answer these questions, it will take up to six months. I'm just saying, if the Department's Department officials can't do their job properly, they're supposed to look for work elsewhere. There are many qualified people who are willing to care for these responsibilities. I urge you, Your Excellency. A health minister, to handle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Social and equal minister on the status of housing markets and planned measures made by a new government to remedy this situation. There's been a lot of talk about, at least In recent years, the tremendous lack of housing at this time has made the most clear that housing prices have gone up tremendously, so no longer to avoid talking about the cost of a real estate market. In the past, we have experienced such a time and know the danger of such a situation in the long run. Of course, what is most serious is that young people find it very difficult to take first steps into the real estate market, whether to rent or to buy, and of course this lack of income is the most difficult thing to do in the community. Therefore, it is urgent that governments take decisive and ambitious measures to remedy this situation. The Treaty of a new government covenant deals with the government's actions on housing, but I have to admit that, as with many other members of that government covenant, it is very aggressive and vague and has no way of knowing exactly what governments are going to do. It seems to have this team, like the rest, that there are three very discrepancies in the government, each with its special emphasis on the housing covenant, and there is really nothing. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in this vision of the government's vision of housing measures. It is clear that considerable number of apartments are needed. The main investigators, whether they are looking at the apartment loan fund, the Business Association, or the Industrial Association, who have examined these issues over the years, agree that by the first rate, fewer apartments arrive on the market in the years to come, including the expected number. because a building project around dense development based on the capital area takes longer than previously planned. Second, it is already missing between two and four thousand apartments on the market of today's dot and is seen in the next three years between eight and nine thousand just in the capital area. Then there are additional specific problems in the country as it is developing in areas where economic growth is taking place today. It can be seen as a result of tourism, as well as the build-up of large areas in the northern part of the country, and so on. where real estate has been taking place, but construction costs are still far above the market prices of the apartment and are very difficult to build up in such areas, even severe lacks. The tenure market is then an independent problem. We have seen in the rise of tourism that in many respects there has been uncontrolled growth on so - called Airbnb rented camps. in the reduction of the population in central city of Reykjavík and as a result of the lack of housing involved. It is quite clear that governments must somehow intervene and control, as is the case with another work permit. Of course it's not working. Here other neighbors of Reykjavík are looking up to the same development as the rest of the tourists are actually extorting the population from the whole neighborhoods of Reykjavík and in the general capital area. It would be interesting to hear a minister's point of view in this regard. What I may consider, in an effort to improve my understanding of what it really is that the government is going to do, so that the last government put out a special housing contract with all the rural communities in the capital area and in cooperation of four advisers with 14 defined benchmarks of a housing market, which are of little value in the Treaty of a new government. Then, first of all, I ask, how will the government employ the solution to the housing problem? What ways will it show to make it easier for young people to buy property? Finally: How does a minister see to it that he can create more resistance to a tenet, one of the goals defined in the government's policy declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u20	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for taking up this matter and stressing that this is extremely important and important that the matter be discussed both in the realm and in the field of the council. That is why it is very important to take this discussion at the beginning of the assembly. As mentioned in the case of what? In the government's Treaty, the senator stated that it is intended to promote the growth and balance of housing markets. To achieve this, long-term housing policies need to be shaped based on reliable analysis and analysis of the housing market. There have been positive things in these matters, both in the past and in the last human government. The task now is to integrate policy and highlight the present government with many of the projects that have been going on in the Ministry of the past few years. In order to shape long-term housing policies, it is necessary to first establish the resources of the camp loans to create data and information in order to achieve analysis and statistics. At the same time, more information needs to be provided on overall housing, both to the General and to the general public in the country. The main measures must be to revise the existing housing system so that support will be most useful to those in need. First, there is the need to determine how housing and growth benefits are being used today and to provide suggestions on how to limit housing support to those in need, especially to young people and to reduce society's income. A basic stand in the way of young people who want to buy their first apartment is a lack of their own money to buy. In context of the review of the current support systems for the local shopkeepers to whom I quoted earlier, particular attention should be given to how they benefit young people. It may even need to be. to examine the possibility that the use of pensions can be made to this point and look to the Swiss way that was clearly discussed in the leading general elections. A respectable president. There is a great shortage of small apartments that has made it difficult for those who have limited resources and those who need less apartments, including those who need less. Young people. The government's efforts to increase housing supply will, therefore, be particularly aimed at promoting the construction of small and efficient apartments. The number of social apartments has decreased by half since 1995. This has been a factor in causing serious conditions at a rented market, each of which pays more than half of his rent - rent provisions. In view of this, it is in the priority of promoting the building of a suitable tenement within the general housing system. In addition to spending every year 3 billion dollars. to build up a rented home that needs to be improved, all the means needed to reduce the construction cost of cost of afforded apartments so that a number of apartments are increasing and are planning activities to speed up construction time. A respectable president. Like what? A senator came in earlier is not a problem of territory. The apartment loan fund has the task of assigning stock contributions. How can you meet positions in different markets? In particular, the national community is seen in a problem far different from that of the capital area. There must be work to adapt to the severity of the individual market failures. In certain areas, additional contributions may need to be increased in the presence of high market failures and increase access to loans in cold markets. A respectable president. In addition to this and in view of the great lack of apartment housing all over the country, it is important that a long-term budget in the state of the budget be considered whether there is a need to expand the building up of public apartments. At the same time, such as long - term housing programmes, must continue to promote rural development. A senator came in, including by explaining the duties of a member of the community in this regard on housing law and then ensuring access to monitoring and follow-up to ensure effective implementation of these programmes. When it comes to renting and renting, it is necessary, first of all, to become aware of the rights and responsibilities of rent - rent parties. There they work on a task where renters and landlords receive instruction on their legal status. Why is that necessary? Yes, because today there are only 42% of tenants paid for housing. A high proportion of those who do not accept compensation has not been tested their right to improve their housing. At this time of the year, the camp loan fund will receive payment for housing. It provides an opportunity for special training campaigns in this regard. Finally, I'd like to say that there's an analysis of the size of the Airbnb market that certainly has a major impact in Iceland, like in all our neighboring countries. Of course, in the case of its findings, the Department of Homemaking and legislators in cooperation with rural society should consider whether and what measures to take. First we need a diagnosis to figure out, and then some action must be taken, but which must be done in consultation with both the legislature and the rural areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u21	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent speech. For a couple of hours, I'm just gonna kill on two or three things. First, I'd like to say that yesterday or earlier, the United States of America delivered an arrangement for building five thousand tenants and urged members to study this matter. This is in the fight against poverty. Housing is a matter of eternity and must always be focused. As important as it is that we look at and deal with emergency operations, we too need to look ahead of time. A place of security is one of man's basic needs. It's important that everyone can afford it. But we also need to be reasonable, and such projects too are to focus on responsible environmental issues. First of all, we live here in an enormously high interest level and the insurance that comes with a small currency. It's a huge problem for most buyers and landlords. If there's any group in this room that's credible enough to reduce growth, cut down on insurance, and improve stability with an Icelandic dollar, then it's good to get their plans, because they haven't shown up so far. The only responsible attitude is to examine the practicality of taking in new and stronger coins and to enter the European Union along the way. Second, man - made engineering is responsible for 30% of the world's carbon emissions. We must deal with that problem. It is not just a matter of people's taste or freedom how to build, what infrastructure should be like. It's a bit of environmental mess to be built up, to build bigger than we need. However, in order to attack such improvements and improvements, we need to place much more money on innovation and construction research. We need to build less. We need to build tightly, and we need to build so that we do not unduly harm the environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for bringing this up. A few months ago, we discussed this matter when the discussion was directed to the then minister of the seminary. I'm glad we're still discussing these important matters. First, I want to say that it is one of the most important things to say that individuals have the choice of how to manage their home, whether they want to rent or to buy a home. True freedom of choice, however, is nothing if we do not consider both. The biggest problem is, like, what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson came here, that there's far too little supply. More apartments are missing, and especially the smaller ones that both young ones are attending and those who are older and are shrinking. It's all too easy to make up for, especially in Reykjavík. Hotels grow faster than apartments, and hundreds of apartments rent to tourists, thus disappearing from a public tenet, which still increases the shortage. It's been clear to everyone for a few years, but little has happened. The role of us politicians is to remove barriers from individuals when weights are not delivered, and the supply is too small, extensive, and complex, reforming systems become burdensome, but not helpful, as well, and the costly taxation laws and excessive payoffs that only increase prices on apartments. This is not likely to work. I hope to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities found that the State is involved in the real estate, e.g. In the form of this complex design and extensive deposit and loss of property, young people are affected not only by young people but by all generations. For the public, the conceptism is immense, and it seems that we are working in an orderly way to make it difficult for people to have their own housing. I think we can simplify the procedure and reduce the pay and take a big step toward making it easier for young people to have a suitable home. I tried my way by putting in here a bill for the removal of stamps. I'd love to hear from the highest. A minister whether he supports reducing taxes to individuals in order to help them obtain their own housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for setting up this discussion. I think for us here it is important that everyone should be clear that there is a problem, so any action that will have to be aimed at promoting an increase in supply, whether it has increased weights, simple regulations, to make up an even more adjustment of building order, or whatever the solutions may be. If money is constantly pushed toward increasing interest rates, which seem to be the response of many to the problems that exist on this market, that, unfortunately, is primarily the effect of continuing to run up prices, which run fast enough because of today's lack of problems. I just want to make it look great. Ministers and senators to keep this in mind to attack the right end of the problem, for I often feel that the discussion suggests that people do not understand the source of the problem. Then came a pleasant surprise - though not so. Einarsson If we leave the hall, he is welcome to visit us in the Middle Class at any time, where we can review available suggestions on reaching the height of a country with a crown. But as I think everyone realizes, the housing market, probably the most market, is about interest levels, both during performance periods, for the contractors in this fight, and then for all lifetime subsidies of public and corporate housing. It's all about growth and we have to get them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u24	Mr. President. First, I want to say thank you for this discussion, and I would like to agree with the people here that it is, of course, a matter of eternity that we must always be thinking that housing is one of the most important needs of people, i.e. to ensure housing. I want to agree with those who have mentioned the importance of keeping the needs of young people in mind. I think it's very important, as it did to me, to me. the founder of this discussion, but less so in the highest. Minister, to consider the effects of Airbnb at the Icelandic housing market, the effects on rent prices, and the effects on young people as well as on those who suffer from economic ruin. I think we have to look to see how we can get a grip on this. We also need to stress the development of the system of public renting. Then I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson, who spoke of building environmental food. Of course, we should build environmentalism. It's just not available in the 21st century. As soon as we do all of this, I'd like to agree that long-term housing policies need to be developed, and it is important to consider that the procedure is in order. I disagree with those who always talk about simplifying the rule. A good building order ensures good housing for the poor, and that's what I want to protect. Most important, we need to build available homes, since living quarters today need to be able to serve people when they are older, where they need to be able to use their resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, all facilities that are built need to be accessible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u25	President. Most people agree that the lack of apartments has become a crisis in Iceland. No one seems to be able to shed complete light on the number of apartments that need to be added to meet the demand and that is a problem in themselves, but the number is somewhere between 1,500 and9,000, depending on who is asked. It may be that following the Western island, some 2.5% of the people were on the move. At that time, the disaster was so great that there were 546 houses and 46 apartments of the Annex Fund to speed up the inhabitants of the West Island into a safe haven. Today, 2.5% of the population are about 8,000. It may be estimated that the next thing more than there are now is on the drains, whether with friends or with family members, in far too little housing, or in disintegrated housing. Increased support for the seminary during that crisis is no one. Since there was no single night of emergency housing, there was no big deal. Emergency conditions have come about because of human activity, the crisis is just the problem of those who have nowhere to go. This is the message that Iceland's government is sending to those who run between untrusted landlords who cannot provide their children with a safe home. President. Now we're dealing with an emergency at a housing market under special discussion, and I hope that this conversation continues in discussions about the budget. Pirats and I will propose a modification proposal that the jury will receive the necessary injection of capital but my colleague, Smári Mccarthy, will review the procedures we really need to take to this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u26	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. A proverb for taking up this important and important matter. So it is my intention that this sect cannot be covered any other than discussing the arrangements for the financing of an apartment building that had its large share in high prices and high rents. We're here in our beautiful country on our own, on a boat with a built-in system, the insurance that is unknown in our part of the world even though the late bank claims to have found some example in South America. It is noteworthy that the Norwegians who watch their natural careers in Iceland, including all the productions of financial geniuses, such as discovery of insurance, have not considered any reason to adopt this arrangement, despite the Norwegian dollars, the oil coin, and then a dozen percent, if so, due to the appeal of oil prices on the global market. This system of insurance may not be considered enough at the High Council. During this brief period of time, it is not possible to go in detail, as if it were worth, but you must point out that this price - insurance system places so wide - wide commitments on loans that it is close to being robbed of financial custody during the loan period. If we take one small example - which I don't have time to do, but I will discuss this further in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u27	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for taking the house address. This group of subjects is extremely important, and we progressives are very thoughtful. We put great emphasis on housing in our national era in 2013-2016. It is good to see that the extensive operations under the direction of the candidate minister, the Eygló Harðardóttir, are now making progress in increasing housing opportunities. This is the largest action in building a rented house that has been under way for many decades. Already there have been provisions for construction in 509 rented homes that will rise in 14 rural areas, and there are plans to build thousands of apartments. I think we can all agree that projects in this category are not hard work but require the constant, progressive work that needs to be carried on firmly. So it is good to see how well you are. An advisor and former minister handled these matters and continued to work on the basis of the previous government. I'd like to thank him for his good conduct and his excellent contribution to the jury. Similarly, the candidates and I rejoice in the well - being of our work of other members of the council, and I would like to point out matters presented and built on that basis by members of the United States. V.E.G. President. This I think shows how practical and reasonable the actions of the candidates are. Of course, we runners will continue to do well in these matters, so I rejoice in the words of the highest degree. The current minister of the seminary for today's housing plans. I encourage the minister to do good things and urge him to look especially at the land area and see how the situation of the people can be balanced when it comes to building buildings. It's equal. Surely all of us can agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u28	Mr. President. Sadly, as we have seen, the situation in Iceland is extremely serious, and it is important to keep it in place, as it were. paritaprevir The Þórunn of the Egilsdóttir of Eglílóln came in, that all of it is so in the country, not just in the capital area, although the problem is truly different. Worse still, the rent - rent status of the earners of the country's population is simply devastating. The fact is, according to fact, one third of the tenant pays more than one - half of its tenets in rent, and few earners can store up savings and only half of them have special savings. This is especially unfortunate considering that it is the most likely group to rent homes, i.e. Young people, students, and cripples. On top of that, only 42% of tenants reach housing today based on information from apartment loans. Mr. President. The facility situation is unacceptable. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson in the past has overstepped real estate prices and people who are trying to get into the market just can't find out. However, it is positive that, according to a survey conducted for a camp loan fund that was introduced in October, there is a great interest in living in a secure house that is not profited and where housing costs are kept in moderation. So there is a clear solution available for the highest level. Social Affairs and the Head of the Management Board, it's to support the Synodic resolution proposal made earlier this week on a building at least one of the members of the United States. 5,000 cabib sprays across the country as soon as possible. It is the most reasonable way to build a stable tenet for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u29	Mr. President. I appreciate the voter for starting this important case and the highest. Minister for participating in this discussion. This isn't the first time, and I'm sure it's not the last time we discuss housing here in the Senate Hall. What I think is perhaps most lacking is responsible information about what is really happening in this market. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir It appears that Halldóra Mogensen before then each bank or fortune - teller predicts this in a race with each other about how high numbers should be made. I'm primarily going to discuss the situation in the capital area as a member of the capital area, but according to figures from the local Union in the capital area, they appreciate it as if there is a yearly need for 1,500,1600 apartments into the market. During a seven - year period after the collapse, some 1,000 apartments came to the market. So it's very natural that there's a shortage of housing here, it's missing, for seven years they didn't produce anything they needed. At the beginning of this year, the local community in the capital area recognized the lack of 1700 apartments into the market. Then remember that there are a lot more apartments in the Airbnb in the capital area, so just by making some adjustments, you might be able to cope with this immediate problem. In fact, I think in this room we should be talking more about our long-term goals. I agree that, of course, we need a future conference of this series. In the last few years, many good things have been done. I think the role of an apartment loan fund is what's most important when it comes to it, and I don't forget that what we're primarily affecting in this room is a false economy. Of course, wealth and inflation are the most important factors in real life. And I can't pass by when we talk about the need for housing and building to say that we have to watch transportation at the same time. It is simply impossible to increase the number of the capital area and to build all the apartments needed differently from responding also by practical means of transportation. [[The president calls.]] It is true here: An organization, housing, and transportation, of course, is one of the largest environmental factors we need to look to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for bringing up the matter of housing and the highest. Minister of Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of David for his presence. When it comes to the discussion of the housing problem and how to make it easier for young people to buy their first home and as for complacency in the tenure market, the issue will be more often than just the problem in the Great Reygies area. It wants to be forgotten that housing problems are not less extensive in the country. Business contributions have increased in the country, but because of lack of housing, villages cannot accept hard work in many cases. When it comes to new buildings, the problem is no less. Yet, construction costs are similar if not often exceed those in the southwest corner, but property prices in the region are in all cases lower, making people hold back from building in those places, normal. House - to - house deposit companies do not see the benefits of having activity in the country, likely because the results are less productive. In the Central Party policy list, the country's home is done as far under the heading as in the city of Reykjavík, under the job vow of Iceland. It is, in fact, there. Aimed for reimbursement tax on housing, equal transport costs, tax incentives, such as Norway, electricity transport, and health services, to name something. V.E.G. President. I have this brief talk about the housing problem pointed out that this situation is all over the country and is a disaster that will not be solved overnight. It's our politicians, working out their strategy. Can we all agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u31	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The verbal vendetta de Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for bringing up the subject. It is a matter that should always be in the discussion, and we should always be thinking about it. The task is multiple. There's a lot of points on this thing that haven't been specifically discussed here. I'd like to mention one of them. We haven't talked much about the housing problems of the population of Iceland who have the greatest problems, which has virtually no place in their heads, and even is in the water from day to day. This group has often consulted the local community services, but, unfortunately, the communities have not been sufficiently successful in this category, either here in the capital area or in many other parts of the country. Clearly, part of the problem is that the rural areas in the capital area have not met up with the group. I think it's the highest. To solve this problem together, a minister should take the initiative to get the rural communities to reach the table. It is not reasonable that some community in the capital area or some community in some area should begin to be a flag of this category. They've got to get to it. I would also like to mention the role of Airbnb, mentioned by many members of Parliament. Airbnb's increasing attendance into the market has also added to the social pressure because it actually attracts a part of the market search providers. It is one of the projects that must truly be addressed and that should be considered in particular by legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u32	Mr. President. It's been pretty well discussed here. A lot of what? Councilmen have provided a very good diagnosis and a number of practical suggestions. We know what is missing. There is no need for long - term government housing policies, no legal means for the international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. The need to prioritize housing support to the most needy groups, to match Homing Plans and permissions for follow-up. There is no valid authority to provide data from housing agencies, to increase additional market housing initiatives, and to increase access to the settlements for new buildings. There is a need to increase the build-up of a common tenant for the rent-off situation. There is a need to increase the possibility of a team that can't get into real estate because of the lack of money. All these points don't come from me. They're in the camp loan list, and they showed up at the House Hall in the fall. It's all good points. To this, I would like to add that my rural society has to start putting on its own plough in securing social apartments. We can naturally disagree on accurate implementation, but we can see who can see that most of this is going to be solved by a few simple changes of law and so much of the shit. It is simply unwise not to do so. Pirantics have suggested that about 12 billion will be provided for the next year, a fine start. This would reduce the demand considerably. As time passes, the amount of money could be reduced, and the problem will begin to be solved. I came into it in a speech yesterday that there are a lot of problems with just throwing money into this problem and hoping it will work out. But it is absolutely clear that this crisis will worsen without immediate action. 12 billion are a very small price for a solution to the nation's housing problems. We need long-term solutions, long-term ideas. But this is at least a start.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u33	Mr. President. I made in my first speech to discuss the matter of capital expenses as an explanation of the high price of housing and high rent prices we live in. I particularly talked about the insurance policy, but of course, I have reason to mention the high interest that seems obedient to have in this country far beyond what happens elsewhere. This system of insurance comes in various forms. We have a special edition of the house inside. As all the prices in the country fall, as measured by Iceland's Hauspium, they increase this housing, including the U.S.A. Due to the policy of more of the city's city in Reykjavík, due to what some call a eccentric policy and is characterized by a lack of weights. This results in an increase in housing prices, living prices. This may have been the case, and it has been reported that during recent years large amounts of money have been moved from homes to financial institutions. We're talking about tens of billions. If you use an illustration to assess this size, so that you can identify it, this is similar to the value of cod fishing each year, which is placed in such a home and transferred to financial institutions. If we take another example of the confusion, we are now increasing the amount of carbon pay by 50%. This should result in an increase in the index of 0.03%. But this means that there is a demand for a home of over 5,500 million. K. What kind of confusion is this? How can humans cope? Unfortunately, two of the administration categories describe their policy in the matter in terms of being understood except that they have no interest in altering this system, the third is to sit in the government, has had good words, but the fourth of the four categories will not address the removal of this system until we are finished in the European Union and have taken up the euro. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. In many respects I am no closer to the government course, for much of the answers in itself were just raised from a government contract that I find extremely hairy and inexplicable, but I was glad that in some of the assignments he referred to the very fine housing of the last government. I strongly urge him to steal only everyone, he's fine, and he's employed in cooperation with local communities in the capital area, worked in the spirit of the former one, and was referred to by my predecessor at the time, Harðardóttir Harurdóttir. We do not have to start over again, as is the case very often in the Government Convention, as in all. These analyses are available, the resources for analysis are available and the result of the analysis is available. There's no place to stay. It's a shortage. We need to consider how we can solve it. There are a few things that matter most. I missed hearing a minister talk about plans for the sale of state policies to the rural community to build up. I think it's extremely important, there's probably something that can be built well in a third thousand apartments in the capital area, just in those areas. This alone could help a great deal. Another factor that is very important is the review and simplicity of order. It is burdensome, it is costly for the construction market to place too much specific fees on new apartments that are just reflected in higher real estate prices. Moreover, the organizational process is far too time - consuming, especially when we are in a very important structure in the capital area, which requires simple regulations, simple planning so that the project can go more quickly. In fact, it is of particular interest in the context of how reluctant the Environment Ministry has been in these matters. I'm the highest. To the gratifying of his struggle with the Ministry for simple regulations and to reduce the cost of real estate markets in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for this discussion. I think it is well reflected in the discussion, and it has been shown in the case of several members of the council that it is very important to have regular housing discussions at the council. This is one of the largest budgets available in the country and, as reported, a large section of households has become too large, so it is very important that this discussion is always alive. During a five - minute discussion, it is difficult to get very deep into your living arrangements in general. As we have seen, the problem is different between the capital area and the region. I came in to my talk a certain action that we need to take against the country's settlement and against the capital area, and there are other ways. This has also been developed as a whole subject of debate, growth and insurance, and whether we cannot get over the interest level and take away insurance without joining the European Union. Of course there are opinions in this room, and I'm just saying, as it is, it's quite possible. That's part of what's headed for the current government. This has also shown the importance of building economic facilities and looking both to environmental factors and to the need for a simple rule. In recent years, we have revised it, and I think the building principle is the principle most widely revised in terms of simplicity. They need to continue on that course, yet they must take care of important factors that need loyalty. This has been introduced into the distribution of stocks and the changes made in the Substitution Fund, led by the world's highest degree. Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir. However, in terms of the stocks and the apartment loan fund, it has been found to be working because we're talking about putting extra funds into the building system. It is a pleasure to feel confident about this. Then there are many other factors that we should certainly consider with a positive mind, such as plans for the sale of state lands, etc. I'd like to reiterate that it's important to keep this conversation alive, and I'd like to say it anyway. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson or others to take up this discussion regularly every few months. [[The president calls.]] This is important, and we're supposed to discuss this, and the ideas that came out here are positive, and I'm taking them to work at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u36	The president wants to know that in view of the circumstances here and that the short period of time has been reached for a talk-off period for a part-of-the-view crew of 3 in the same manner as the end of the session. Tuesday. A speaker has ten minutes, while other members of the Parliament have three minutes, although a discussion will not last more than half an hour each assembly case. Those answers are not allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u37	A respectable president. I recommend here for the first priority of Pirata and I, who are ordered to respond to the unprecedented situation that the European Commission imposed a ban on the media coverage of the highest executive executives of the Commission in Iceland just before election. This is what happened in the U.S. democracy and is a disgrace to the highest degree. In order to respond to this situation, Pirantar and I have submitted a bill that changes the laws on quietness, law, and other matters that, instead of a businessman, a representative of the European Commission, a ban on the media coverage, judges will take on that role, and they will be able to better judge and appreciate the great human rights that are already under ban on the expression than the execution of the Commission, as shown. So I can further explain our position to Iceland and I are under obligation to protect our freedom of expression. Freedom of the press is one of the most important aspects of their rights, i.e. The freedom of expression. Without freedom of expression, we have no active democracy nor real democracy, either here or anywhere else. Freedom of expression is protected with 1 0k. The European Convention on Human Rights, which we are on and on at 73 st. The constitution. We are under obligation to ensure in the best possible way that there will not be unnecessary and not in the most spectacularly serious way that the ban was given during the discussion of financial exchange at the highest level. Secretary of finance, then prime minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. To reduce freedom of expression, the European Court of Justice has issued recommendations on certain conditions, i.e. published multiple judgments on conditions that must be met, so to speak, a violation of these grand rights is legitimate or in accordance with our commitments or other countries involved in the important agreement. For freedom of speech or expression to be restricted, three conditions must be met: First, the impairment must be bound by law, i.e. There must be some kind of law allowing a violation of the freedom of expression. Examples of such laws are laws against mutilation that impair the freedom of expression to protect good people. Second, the law that impairs freedom of expression must be set for legitimate purposes. They, as it were, seem to be legitimate, are listed in Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. It is, in fact, there. To find the viewpoint that such laws can be set in order to protect the good people, the secrets of the State, or to protect the interests of children. There are legitimate circumstances to limit people's freedom of expression. A law can be set as a permit for a violation of freedom of expression. In contrast, the third condition is the most important. It shows the importance of a court's handling of these matters rather than the execution of the authority. A third requirement is that in each individual case a loss of expression freedom will be considered necessary in a democratic society. Mr. President. I'm holding the fact that it's not necessary, but it's strictly a dangerous democratic society, to impose a restraining order on the media two weeks before the election for financial exchange of the nation's highest power. It is a very dangerous democracy, and far from being necessary in a democracy. It is evident, then, that the assessment of whether or not that requirement was met when a ban was decided on the topic of financial exchange at the highest level. The secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, in the leading of the 2008 bank crash, did not appear in the offices of the county government. In fact, it was also clearly identified with the administrative and monitoring committee where he was specifically asked if these three conditions had been asked, if these conditions had been met. He said not to be. When a businessman was asked if any specific rules were valid or special when it came to establishing a ban on the media coverage, the answer was no. Experts spoke to the management and monitoring committee about how to change this system so that there could not be a inhibition of multicenter expression - which, using probe, is still valid and will remain in force beyond the year, i.e. before the decline of the freedom of expression by the media, which is one of the cornerstones of democracy. The experts sitting at a hearing on this case told us that in order to ensure these rights, it would be most expedient to make the decision authority regarding the ban on the media on their expression, i.e. on their work, to the courts, for it could certainly ask whether conditions for loss of expression were met. This is what we Pirats have failed to do, and now we provide a bill that changes the laws used to impose a ban on this multicenterman that the courts have to take charge of this. I make three very important comments on this project all and the existing laws. I think, for example. it cannot be viewed as a law of law that may be considered to be of legitimate purpose which is spoken of as having to be there in this context, i.e. when it is time to impair expression. So we change that the courts now need to decide whether or not to agree with the Constitution and our commitment to the European Convention to establish a ban on media coverage before it appears. So I'll just look at the report with the bill before my time expire, Mr. Honorable President, and I'll just say a little bit about what it says. By permission of the President: It suggests that there will be a change to local laws, regulations, etc., No. 31/1999, that no legal ban can be imposed on media communication without the ruling of the province. The objective of the bill is to ensure that no possibility of a ban on the candidate will be allowed to halt the media's communications on material without the establishment of a court. That. Justices have to come up to legal cases so that media coverage can be ruled by law. ▪ In accordance with the bill, candidates in such cases will need to appeal to those they believe have violated or violated their legal rights by their actions. In a paper with the bill, we review the importance of the freedom of expression, we review the conditions that I was considering right now. We'll discuss the importance of the bill being agreed. At a meeting of the administrative and monitoring committee, it was noted that although it may not have been among all, a greater proportion of members of the committee who were sitting at this meeting seemed to agree that something had to be done to respond to this unprecedented position. So I reiterate that unprecedented position, against the press coverage of state's highest authority, the highest executive hand of the European Commission, is under ban. That's still true. It was placed by the executives of the European Commission on the fourth authority to provide us with, and particularly with the Commission. That's what I call extremely dangerous, incorrigibly, and embarrassing. I encourage the entire body of Congress to be with me in changing this arrangement so that it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u38	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir At the end of his talk, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdottir encouraged a world of Congress and a gathering with her to prevent this situation from occurring. A senator may come up again with a very good use of his speech. I declare myself ready to cooperate. I can join the good light as a boy. A senator took the matter into consideration and, as in the past, expressed it in a talk and in a publication. I will always fight for freedom of the media, not just because that freedom is right, but because I feel the same way. A senator that is essential in a democracies community that the media have the freedom to discuss matters. It must not happen that such freedom is outreached on very different terms. I myself am such a spokesman for the media freedom that I am afraid to have no restrictions on what may be discussed in the media. But like a dog. A senator was certainly a fine shaver, a internationally approved man, and other matters to be taken care of in this regard. It's a matter of course. The senator here is all the weirdest. I'd like to say something, if you don't mind. Senator. It must not happen in that democratic society that we want to be the source of such a case. Still, I'm going to be completely honest with the subject of the bill that I just haven't studied a few legal articles and in this regard. I don't doubt that they're right and that this is the right way, but I'm very supportive of the bill because it's best if there's no law against media coverage and there's more to it than in the current law. So I will support the progress of this bill, research more closely in which articles are referred, but I can say as much as possible. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir said above. This matter is of utmost importance, and it must never be up to anyone's person how the media are prepared in a democratic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u39	A respectable president. I welcome a very forward bill of change in the laws of sensuousness, order and so forth, and thank you for the good talk of the senator. There's one thing I want to roll up here that can be seen in the bill, as well as in the report that comes with it. But as discussed above, freedom of expression is, of course, a fundamental course and the importance of the media as well as the fundamental principle of democracy. I'm so glad we're done. But I'll put my eyes into one thing and another that I'm wondering, if I can do details, e.g. ... inPage3. The bill. It speaks of a period of reporting, of course, that is good. But the nature of the case is a ban on the media, so it really needs to be settled in a very short time. Now they're talking about bringing this to a federal court, and that's very good, I'd say, because I believe that the district is actually better qualified to take over at the inside, like a restraining order, in a quick manner, for which judges are always on the stand, e.g. for forced action on criminal matters. Therefore, they are very used to working fast, safely, and without fums in such situations. In many respects, I believe that the federal court is better qualified to capture the subject quickly and safely and correct it. Of course, in returning reports, it is a process of implementation that is likely to be carried out in committees. You wonder, though, what might be the situation; what happens to the ban, what will happen to the release of what is being made during the period of writing. You wonder, " Could this become any new device that a candidate could use solely to prevent the release of material then and at the moment that might then be of no avail? ' But I welcome this and thank a messenger for his bold speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u40	A respectable president. I'm one of the carriers of this matter. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdósdóttir and therefore may not be surprised that I support it, as it sounds to me to be the general elephant of the General Hall, and I'm sorry for the sleigh, if that's any longer, I won't say. I'm afraid to go deep into law technology. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went out a little. I have reason to believe that this is a case that needs to be discussed on a committee to find out exactly how the details should be done. This is where an overexcited delicate part of our law is being treated as a matter of freedom of expression, which is fundamental in a democracies community. As I have often mentioned, freedom of expression is often so that there is a need to be able to express things that can cause some harm to others. Otherwise, freedom of expression is pointless. There are two things I would like to mention, though, just to think about it from a philosophical point of view. On the one hand, someone could say that it was extremely important for a businessman to do this in order for this to happen in the ninth hour. Then I'd like to remind you that the reason why this bill is presented is a series of events that took place just before an election in my opinion, and I believe that it must be the assessment of everyone who knows it, was too much taken in. I see the sequence as confirmation that the law is corrupt. In fact, I don't really feel that there should be any doubt in itself that the law allows this ban too easily. I think the events of the election are proof of that. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir did a thorough review earlier on the issue of state's supreme ruler, then supreme. Prime Minister. Something has to be done. This is Pirata's suggestion. Whether or not she makes changes in a committee, whether this is arranged or not, I feel that there is something other than whether it is needed. It is obvious or obvious that this is needed. I know that sooner or later someone will mention the context of privacy. That's when I come back to the same thing. There was the State Supreme Ruler for consideration. It must be possible to discuss his case a few weeks before election, especially with regard to the scandals that have been involved in the fine gentleman throughout history. It's necessary. Again, I say: It's obvious that the law is too weak to ensure freedom of expression when it is important. So again, I refer to a committee as a better look but also stress that here is not a suggestion that the law won't be possible but that it will never happen again before the election. We are to be ashamed that this has happened and that it has done the most quickly, since this is a priority for that reason. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u41	V.E.G. President. I, unlike those who have spoken here, can't celebrate this bill. I must say in my own way that this is probably one of the most insane bill I've seen in a very long time. Maybe that doesn't surprise anyone. It is by law that freedom of expression is impaired. We know that it often overlaps with other important rights. It is the Lawgiver's opinion of where freedom of expression is impaired and the evaluation of public interest in it. When it is done, it is a general who does and values it. The law is a law-enforcement economy where the law is clear. The law is clear about the limitations of freedom of expression in this case, and this matter is all about, but we can always debate whether the lawgiver has gone outside the Constitution, the Constitution is the right person. It's a legal matter to appreciate it. It has no meaning, as this bill is, the courts will begin to decide a ban after reviewing the constitution and implementing it for months. Because then the damage has been done. Then law order has no meaning anymore. That's why this bill doesn't mean anything. When freedom of expression is limited in the law, it applies to everyone in the community, including the media. Not to be overlooked is the fact that once the matter has been discussed before the court and the people consider it to be an issue of freedom of expression... [[Upward, after the election.]] This bill doesn't just start an election in the future. That's a crazy bill, huh? Senator. So freedom is not limited to any more, so if courts find that the ban is not supported, then this discussion will be carried out. [[The point is, it disagrees with you.]] Yes, it may well be that someone disagrees with me. But it's like this everywhere. No one in this great world can think of putting up such nonsense and all that. [[Step forward: Disagreement.]] Yes, we can disagree or agree on freedom of expression and how well that is spent. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, it's true.]] But a bill like that is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u42	Mr. President. This bill and its motive are worth all the attention. I think we, who are at the General Assembly, have to take care of the freedom of the media and freedom of expression in general. I'm not going to be just as hot as the first. A speaker. I'm not sure it's all bullshit. However, I'm going to make an advance of individual materials and arrangements, but I think it's our duty to make the knots so that the media can function. Of course, they must be like others, as noted, to work within the bounds of law. But how important it is that there is much room for them and that if one is going to compromise that space, it is done in a careful manner. The mass media nature is now, at least During the season, time is usually everything because the media is sharing information in some context, it's just that. A consideration of certain points is important when that will be discussed. It doesn't matter two weeks later because it's not a ◯relendant, in the context that's setting things up. It can at least Often it was that way, I'm not saying it's absolute, but it's often that way. So I think time is very important there. Of course, interests are being dealt with, but there I think the media's interests and thus the public - a media has to share information that concerns him with the public. They are not to communicate information about the private interests of people that are nobody's concern. But when it comes to big issues, it is very bad if you can delay them. Therefore, I think that when this matter is taken forward, however it ends exactly, these views are of utmost importance, that this limitation is then calmed and taken as short as possible, but not that it can be banned, almost immediately, and then the time, therefore, goes on for a long time, until it is tested whether freedom of expression was justified in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u43	A respectable president. I congratulate the carrier of this bill, Thorhlildi Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdótir. I agree with the bill and its purpose, but he is making sure that there will not be a chance for the law-enforcement candidate to stop the media's involvement of material without a court of law. According to the bill, candidates in such cases will need to appeal to those whom they believe they have violated or will violate their legal rights by their actions. It's well, and of course it doesn't need to multiply here in the General's symposium that freedom of the media is one of the fundamental elements of every democracy, that's the freedom we have to protect by all means. Indeed, freedom from the media is especially necessary to protect ourselves from corruption. So I'm glad this bill's out. We all know the motive of the bill. In this matter, legal action at the moment, the public's interests, which are important for freedom of the media, were not security. It seems to me that the bill is an important factor in protecting the interests of the public, which, yes, are the interests of which we at the Council are to protect. Business and commercial information is entitled to the public. In this regard, the then prime minister of the country certainly had business interests involved the fall of the Icelandic banking system in 2008, while he was representing the public. So he was obliged to care for the interests of the common people and put them above his own interests. There is no indication that the hour as a media was intending to publish data other than those that protected the interests of the common people. The bill presented here is an important step in protecting the media's freedom. So I will support its progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u44	Mr. President. Finally, I want to thank you for the discussion that has been conducted and thank for the support this bill has been shown, as well as for the indications and opposition shown to the bill. I want in view of the criticism that has been shown to kill several of the points presented in the report with this bill and how to comment. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who simply read from the report before I recommend that this fine bill of mine go to the committee. An article with the bill will show up, with the permission of a president: The media is one of the best ways in which the public can discover and feel about political ideas. The European Court of Human Rights concludes with a special reason to defend political discussions in the media, especially as an important and impervious aspect of the freedom of expression protected in Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. [...] Among different restrictions on expression freedom, the Court evaluates censorship for the release of the most dangerous, as it stops the flow of information and ideas to those who want to receive it. This is why measures taken before publication, such as the publication of a job permit for the media, the review of the authorities before publication, should be the highest limit of the court's opinion. Even if there is only temporary relief, this can keep the information coming to a stable level. [...] This is especially important in the media, since news is on fire and delays in publishing, even for a short period of time, can well detract or destroy the value and interest of the public. This does not mean that there should be a legal ban here for three months, Mr. President, without a polygrapher's permission to comment on the financial affairs of the present financial minister, then the highest level. Prime Minister, on a broad foundation as this law shows. It was made very clear at a meeting of the Commission and Commission with the county that he does not take into account the greatest demands the European Court places on the decline of freedom of expression, especially when it comes to the media. He has no regard for them. Then it is well put in the hands of courts that have learned a few lessons about the protection of freedom of expression in Iceland and are doing well, most of the time, I think, after a few knocks on the hands of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, it is my firm opinion that this bill is improving, that courts now have a fairly good rule on how to protect freedom of expression and freedom of media will come to appreciate whether it is justified in democratic society to impair the expression of the media. Finally, a respectable president, I suggest this matter goes to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u45	A respectable president. I'm very proud to be standing here right now measuring for the first national bill at the High General. The bill suggests a request for a change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. Before I discuss it, I'd like to talk about the goals of social security. The aim of social security is to ensure a living in pensions, which is sufficient for them to support themselves and live independent lives. I wanted to talk about it a little bit. Now I'd like to talk about the report we're going to have to follow the bill before I mention the brief adjustment we want to make. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ With law No. 116/2016, changes in social security and other laws, including The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, they had one general budget of $25,000. During the months - and as everyone knows - this amount of money that went into effect at this time of the past year with that change - is the equivalent of all the incomes of a pensioner, regardless of their type. After approval of the law, this change in employment has been identified, and demand has been made by the bodies of older people and other bodies to eliminate the losses of older citizens in employment. A group of people have often called to them experts in the areas in which we want to improve our understanding of society. One of them, Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, has won a report I intend to refer to today, that was a report on the financial situation of the elderly. He won the report for the senior citizen Féagi in Reykjavík, and he wrote an article on his study in the morning of November 23, 2000. It shows that neglecting pension payments for employment does not have to include additional financial expenses, and it is even possible - notice, fine senators and audiences and tops. A president - it is even possible that a government fund could benefit financially from the operation. It is said that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the prospects of elderly ones to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens. It is therefore suggested that payments for pensions are not restricted because of employment at the time. 23rd par. pricing on social security Now I'd like to refer to Article one. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ After Third Case. 1.mg. 23rd par. The law shall bring forth a new proverb, saying, Then shall the wages of the pensioner of old age be not cut off. Two. states that the law is accepted right now during the year, or January 1, but it will be carried out on February 1. That's actually why we're suggesting that before this is changed, it is now being recommended in the budget bill that the rise being offered in pensioners right now due to employment should be up to 100,000 dollars. In this context, I'm going to refer to the highest. A financial minister whose unfortunately it is not here to defend himself, but he has said that by eliminating this leisure target, we are even making it possible for those in pensions who have very high income to make use of the money they still pay from the social security system. We don't agree with this at all. The nature of the matter tells itself that those with very high income - now, let's talk about older citizens and our goals by means of this bill that is first and last to put their arms around the group of older citizens living in poverty, trapped in a poverty trap. The fact is, 45% of our older citizens suffer a number of losses. It is the nature of the situation, in accordance with the utmost danger, that those people who are on some of the superpowers who are now members of this group of older citizens will also benefit from the social security. We have to believe that they were concerned about having either a very good pension rights which, in effect, reduce their pay from public insurance, or that they had a warning and prevention for themselves and put aside and then are making money money. Let us not forget that we are talking about older citizens who are about 70 years old. We're talking about our people, who are not going to work for so many years and who are now trying to provide a decent supply of food for someone else. For a further underlining, I'd like to point to the Constitution our rights in the 76th par. where it says that everyone, everyone, should be granted the right to help everyone so that they can live decently and with dignity. Not just some, the highest. President, everybody. We must realize that these individuals and the group we are speaking for now, our older citizens, are those who have cultivated our land and have placed it in our arms as it is here and today. I think so, the highest. President, that we should treat them with the minimal honor of allowing them to save themselves if possible and to live gracefully and have a carefree life night. I'll lead back to what. Secretary of finance, when he says: "What about knocking on the woman's 80's and saying, " Now that the payoff has been canceled, go to work. It's a twist. It's a sad way out of the way. Of course, we simply need to raise the basic progress for everyone. We're just measuring for a particular group right now. We're trying to stop this off-priority target from raising just a hundred thousand dollars. We're trying to prevent that bell in real life. That's why I say, we're also going to have to change this, even if it's not recommended in this bill, then it's just later. A group of people are naturally just starting their way and starting to think. I promise you, we're going to have a hell of a lot of work to do our business. I'd like to add at the end that I'm very proud to say that it is, of course, the entire group of people called Shocks, who are behind this good bill, i.e. besides me, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason and Ólafur Ísleifsson. We're going together. I say on the way: I challenge everyone to let at least Whether the report presented by Dr. Arnþórsson Arnethon has proved to be true. We're the lawgiver. If this doesn't work and doesn't work as well and we don't think it will, then just have to go back and try to move in another direction. In this case, I simply say, " We have everything to do. ' We have nothing to lose. Let us stand and work hard in behalf of those who truly need it. As soon as I say so, I'll direct the bill to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u46	President. I'd kind of like to keep it brief and say I'm on this case, it's a really cool case. My colleague, my boy. paritaprevir In 2016, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, asked what the cost was to eliminate the decrease in pension due to employment. It made it very clear that it would cost more than 2.4 billion. It's totally possible, and we're supposed to do it. Had the group of people searched outside the council, he would no doubt have brought me along. I'm on it. This is very good. Pirates have already made a change in the budget that there will be an increase in money for this category to do just that, so we're actually thinking about very similar things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u47	Mr. President. The bill presented here, carried by the entire party of Stockholm, all four members of Parliament, is about improving the interests of the elderly who want to and can work in a labour market in order to improve their interests and achieve other goals that will be followed by me. I'd like to introduce my speech to my attention. The U.S. National Association of older citizens dated on December 19, 2017. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The European Union of older citizens is amazed at the proposals available in the government departments to raise the job budget only to $ 100,000 a month. A year ago, that coin was $19,000 and had remained unchanged since 2009. If the pay line had been followed, it should be $115,000 today. It would most likely be a loss of employment because of a total decline, as is done in many North countries. It has been referred to as a result of the change of the kind presented here for the financial expenses and for the number 1 billion. in that relationship. It may be noted that this number does not appear to be supported by very detailed calculation or analysis of the effects of such changes. This number does not seem to take into account the change in job participation, the change in the extent of the work of those already employed, and it does not seem to take into account that the current organisation may have promoted black work in this relationship. In the opinion of Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, they are considered to be a factor and, among other things, are income taxes, welfare costs, and social impacts. This social influence exists among them. in a bill for a law called a duet, where each word can be accepted. [[The president calls.]] It discusses that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the prospects of the elderly to improve their prowess. [[The president calls.]] Increased activity and activity contribute to improved health, isolation and generally high social value for older citizens. [[The president calls.]] This effect should not be underestimated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u48	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the members of the council in the Gang of the People for speaking the good stuff. The fine party can expect support on my part, and I have the courage to claim to the rest of my council as well. This is the same proposal as it suggests a change in my committee's proposal to the so-called bandorm, the bill of the budget. The cost of this has been detected. In answer to what? paritaprevir The male of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, in his day, was overlooked. The head of health and equal rights minister that the overall cost of removing the decrease in social security pensions due to employment participation would be less than 2.5 billion, which is an extremely low amount in connection with budgets and social security. It's not just the rationality that counts, that's why. paritaprevir Sæland hareland went over here earlier. I'm going to allow the speech to enjoy their moisture, the logic has made it clear. There is also the argument that by raising the holiday target on just one income category, the system is only slightly involved again. I would think that, by removing the impairments, which are a secondary reason for this good matter. There is a gold value, as it were, to have the system simple because simple people seek their rights, simple the system to calculate the right that makes them crazy, and to help us politicians fix the system when it fails, which it certainly does too often. In existing financials, this 100,000 charge is expected. Free income will increase the cost of the state budget by 1.1 billion a year. Given that the cost of removing it is less than 2.5 billion, then the difference is 1.4 billion. The difference is, in view of the large amount of farming it would take, an extra cost of 1.4 billion, which has little to do with the litigation and money. It is not as if we were suggesting an increase of 15 billion. It's not like that. These are little in connection with the seminary and the budgets, yet a huge experiment. Now I wish it had been more time to go through everything. A recent meeting was conducted. The Economic and Business Committee has been doing this in Norway. I haven't got it confirmed myself, but it came out there. I'd like to remind you that it's very important that this case comes out as an independent case from the people because we're paying a vote on Pirata's transition for a weekend. If I'm going to be realistic, I'm sure she'll fall, unfortunately. But then we have more time to discuss this matter on a committee, especially this one point, and of course 2nd. and then through the 3rd. I think it's very important, so I'd like to thank the group of Falcons for putting this matter to work. I look forward to talking more about it and making all my views the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate the people's Luggs for this fine deal. I'd like to make it quite clear that I'm all for raising this roof, although I'm not ready to eliminate it completely. I look to the main point where pensioners are different. Of course, there are other incomes, such as pension funds, that are impaired today in terms of capital taxes. I feel there are three things I need to play together to make the best use of the government's resources. We know that it costs the government to take care of these impairments, and then I want to look to the three incomes that are possible for a pensioner to get after they finish their work. We know that not everyone, unfortunately, can go to the job market, but I think it's very good and good, and save the state if they can and do it. It returns in various ways, both in consumer taxes and in other ways, to tax returns, and it provides a more social environment for people and in better health. There are so many things. Sadly, not everyone, has worked hard all his life and is about 70 years old, has had enough. I look to the people who have had a low life span and are able to reach a maximum of 200 levels. K. From his pension fund. Twenty-five up. K. I'm a 45% cut on payment from a insurance agency on a pension fund. I think it's very unfair, especially to lay-up people who don't have high pensions. I have less sympathy for people who have been on high pensions and have been on good purchases all their lives and may get over 70% of their life income when they start taking pensions. They don't even remember that. But there are others with people who may be given their $350 worth. ... ina monthand thenit's going to cut down on insurance payments and take taxes, I think it's bloody. Therefore, I would like to watch the government's funds for the group of non-employed pensioners. That group is not uniform, we know it well. I want to make the best use of the government's money to the less-estate population and that people can have income that is minimum at the Ministry of Health, and, of course, we can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u50	A respectable president. This issue with senior businesses is of utmost importance. I was on the Social Security Review Committee when this case came up, and I don't like it. At first, it was 109 you. At least, then they went down to 25 o'clock. K. and now they are to be 100 of you. K. If it were calculated to today as compared to when this was applied at the outset, the number would be 195 you. K. There is something else in this that we forget, and that is important: How can we think of setting some ridiculous vacation target in an effort to discourage someone to win? Who can think of forbidding people to work by taking care of them all? It's just ridiculous. We shouldn't think like that. We are to allow people to work, and they pay their taxes. By doing so, we also prevent what everyone is talking about, a black job. That is what is being encouraged to do in this situation and to need these provisions for drugs, medical care, or anything else. When they see that they're working, and they don't get anything out of it, what do they do? They must have self - preservation efforts, and there must be something that would serve as an emergency for them to work. I'm going to point out that when the cost of this is 2.5 billion, that's not true. Arnþórsson's report says that there is no expense. I'm sure the government will make a fortune. We all make up for this, especially those older citizens who can go to work and want to go to work. It also tells us that we need to make sure that those who are unable to work because of their health, for example, have a decent way of doing things. That's the next thing we'll do in this matter. I say if older citizens who can work and go to work are in a position to be able to afford to leave, for example. to the doctor and to the cost of medicine, and otherwise not to be denied. There's a lot of people today who can't afford this, too, that's ugly. For those out there looking at us and saying, "They're not going to do anything, are they really going to tell us not to get to work unless we're paying taxes and cutting us so hard that there's nothing left? It is often forgotten in this that taxes and chain reductions often cause those who are trying their best, thinking that they get something out of this system of delinquency, get nothing, and go to pieces. That'll cost you. It's the worst thing about everything, getting people to work, and they don't get anything out of it but cost. And there are people who for the first one can't even live on what they have.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u51	V.E.G. President. It was one of the middle-class policies for the election this fall that professional income did not reduce pension income. The point was stated to be well - thought - out because older ones contain valuable things that we cannot afford to miss, i.e. Their experience, knowledge, etc. We also wanted this to be done in this way so as to enable those who are not already in the workplace but who want to have a workforce in this age group to do so, thereby increasing their quality of life and income. Let us not forget that it is not just a loss of income that belongs to many elderly ones who quit work but also to socialize, even to develop diseases that could be prevented by allowing the people to work where they can and would like to do so. This bill, therefore, is to be celebrated here by the Gangs. The middle class now has this to consider, and it will be done with the payment of the budget bill, that instead of raising a payout target to 100,000 dollars. it is chosen that employment revenues do not reduce pension income income income income. We will now proclaim a change in that reality by making financial contributions. We feel that it is urgent to get the will of the council on this issue right now. We also believe that there is a more quick way to set this issue straight if there is a will here in the high Council, which I hope is because we can all agree that it is possible for everyone to win. It's also the interests of the State because it's just like that. A speaker mentioned before me has learned that the cost of this operation, 2.5 billion U, is highly overrated. And in the end, everyone will benefit from that operation, including the treasure of the state. I didn't understand that for a long time, it has been observed here that a committee I presided over in my time, we made this mistake. But when you get evidence that wasn't a reasonable way, you change your mind and reason. That is why it is my firm conviction now that professional income should not demoralize the pensions of older citizens. There is no way for some politicians to tell people that they can have $25,000. a month on pay or 100,000 kks. without wasting their pensions. So I'm celebrating this bill, but I'm suggesting that the Central Party is going to try to treat this case with 2nd. or about 3rd. of budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u52	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. In this fine matter, members of the Parliament are warmly encouraged, but this is the first bill presented by the members of the people. I will hope for it, and in the good believe that it will be established here. As I pointed to earlier, it is actually worth more to look to the good report that Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson presents with his moderate strategy, for he says: "These are modest numbers, which I do not intend to list here than refer to the report for all who want to study it. I'd especially like to direct my case to what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, thank you, as far as the worst are concerned and unable to win. It tells itself that we're not exactly putting our arms around that group, that we'll be the next bill. We've been talking about it in Floki people from day one, that there's a minimum advance here to be 300 of you. K. Without taxes and impairment, 300 of you. K. Minimum advance. I have called and requested the cooperation of all members of Congress on how we can manipulate it so that it does not have to cost a fortune of limited money, which has never been strong, so that we can put the tax system to the economy without the expense of this group that has no such contribution as 300 of yours. K. Are, have her. Well, let's at least... take one step at a time. This is a positive step at least for this particular group we are fighting for now, to give our senior citizens the opportunity to try to save themselves if at all possible. The other is another matter, as I say, whether it attracts to micro-terrestrials and low-payers or to all those trapped in a poverty trap, for the fact is that 45.3% of those who give up to taxes have less than 310 you. K. per month. It is our senators to put their arms around these groups and make sure that they can live decently and with dignity. I say again, thank you for all this support. I look forward to working with anyone who wants to do this well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u53	A respectable president. Just a moment. I feel that this discussion has had to suffer in the arrangement we've taken up this time with 1st. I would be much more appropriate if we discussed the first issues of this matter, as they are generally discussed, i.e. magazines with answers so that people can speak again and so forth. I realize exactly why it is, that's because we're in a time crisis. But I just wanted it to become clear that this case is worth much deeper discussion and the arrangement that has been taken out of the timeliness we are in, in my opinion, that the discussion is not able to enjoy to the extent that it deserves. I certainly hope that the senators will be diligent in speaking up in 2nd. to make up for the loss of having this arrangement now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u54	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for 2017, which is to be found on deck. 68. The bill contains a review and suggestions for changing the resources of various causes and litigation classes in 2017. The bill to the budget that will now be submitted will be the first work by law No. 123/2015, on official financial matters, but in a report on this bill, the General Assembly set out a clear policy on the role and content of budgets. Twenty-six. The law says even.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. In a follow-up with a bill for funding, the exchange of funds to the Member State and projects should be reported. Furthermore, a report on page 26. The law: The rules of the bill recommend that only additional financial resources be sought in order to meet temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget year. All the requirements of the arrangement must be met. These are the same conditions that are set for the use of a general reserve. Thus, the principle presents a more narrow conditions than the current financial laws, which include new resources, including some of them. transfers, reserves for seminaries and general reserves designed to meet all key deviations from schedules. It is therefore assumed that the amount of budget will be much less than ever. A respectable president. This is to assume that all predictable budgets are being provided in financial terms, but in terms of budgets, only provisions will be sought to handle the costs that were inaccessible to the payment of budgets but are now in progress, and government funds will not be able to avoid paying. In this way, budgets are designed only to cover the inevitable costs of the above, including the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation in the year in which government laws cannot be handled otherwise under official financial laws. However, budgets are not intended to cover government costs on new and more projects or because of an increased level of government activity or due to a lack of resources on the business of a person within the individual categories, etc. The budget of this kind should be referred to the reviews and decisions made by the Generals according to events on budgets for the next year's budget. I'm going to go back to reevaluating theoffs of 2017. When budgets were set for 2017, it was assumed that the original balance of state funds would be 91 billion. which corresponds to about 3.5% of gross domestic product but that the interest rate in the state's budget would be negative at 66.3 billion. or 2.5% of national product. This meant that total growth in government funds was positive about 22.7 billion, or 1% of gross domestic product. The preparation and implementation of the 2018 budget bill in November and December has served to reevaluate current income and expenses. In this regard, expenses for the current year will be expected to exceed existing budgets for almost 16 billion dollars. In particular, this is explained by external expenditures in health insurance, social security, and the business of trustees, as well as by financial exchange costs, following the use of the government funds in April's own bonds to cover $877 million. On the other hand, on the other hand, the increase in income is a substantial increase of less than 39 billion. This increase is mainly explained by more than the sum of the budget required, or more than 20 billion. In addition, economic development and review of revenues from individual tax institutions have an effect on increase. The total share of the total Kingdom funds will be estimated to be about 48 billion dollars. or 1.9% of gross domestic product in the current year. This is a far better product than the terms of the budget anticipated, or some 23 billion dollars. which accounts for 0.9% of GDP. It should be noted that the above discussion and figures have not been taken into account two things that could not be considered when reevaluating the expenses and the outcomes of the year. In 2014, a recent purchase of the Pentateuch in euro leads to a higher rate of 3.5 billion per year of interest in 2017. However, it is the agreement of the State on a land of partnerships that is unavoidable, with a total of 1.1 billion dollars. According to a recent assessment and an agreement was made to be won. Taking into account these issues, the total budget of 43.2 billion or 1.7% of gross domestic product would be obtained. A respectable president. A little closer on the income ratings. The economic development of the current year has been more efficient than expected from the 2017 budget. The national interest project since November. 4.9% of interest was predicted compared to 4.4% in the national budget of 2017. It's about half the percentage. Increase in economic growth is driven by domestic demand, particularly private consumption, but growth is from 5.7% to 7.8%. At the same time, less inflation is expected, but it is heading to 1.8% on the revised criteria instead of 2.4%. Remuneration slightly increases from the budget of 2017, but at the same time, labor demand is somewhat lower. However, less inflation has resulted in the continuing increase in commercial power and, as mentioned earlier, personal consumption. The collection of tax revenues per year reflects this growth in the economy, as reflected in an under-revised national interest project for the current year. The 2017 budget has estimated 776 billion in total, but this plan has now increased to nearly 815 billion, a total of 39 billion. Following these increases, there are different changes in individual tax strains as discussed below. Economic development is the most important factor in reevaluating incomes from individual tax institutions. As mentioned earlier, private consumption in the current year exceeds the predicted budgets, which are reflected in increased revenues of worthwhile taxes and other quality taxes. The budget mentioned above has an increase of over 20 billion, this is an increase in profits made by banks, but it cannot be expected that there will be a lasting effect on future income schemes. Remuneration for property taxes goes up by 600 million. In addition to the high income of customs, costs of road vehicles increase by 1.3 billion dollars. Fishing costs raise by 0.5 billion. The biggest payoff of any individual taxpayers is on taxes on product and service, but they all raise by 6.9 billion and get richer - yes, I'm on the wrong side, the increase is 6.9 billion. According to the reimbursement, interest revenues continue to decrease by over 1 billion from the budget. The decrease is mainly due to a lower control growth than expected. In particular, it's interest from some of the more than 680 million in terms of a reduction in the average estimate. K. This results in a decrease in the weight of unsolved taxes by 230 million. K. and interest on loans of some 170 million. K. Finally, the estimated revenue of fishing costs increase by nearly 0.5 billion dollars. from budgets that are mainly explained by a higher catch cost on bottom fish than expected at the end of the year. Now, I'm going to take into account the evolution of expenses. This suggests an increase in budgets of industry and lawsuits by 24.9 billion, but in 2017 budgets, a total of 765 billion. So the abnormality in budgets corresponds to 3.2%. The exception of the modified budget for interest costs is 2.2%. Thus, the right to one third of the increase in funds is because of this year's decision to pay off foreign loans. It should be noted that the bill will only take into account the added budgets for activities related to law No. For public financial reasons, 123/2015 does not include overall assessment of the annual annual annual annual budget, such as costs that may be lower than the annual budgets. We've gotten used to such overall reassessments, but this is what we've corrected for the financial contributions of previous years, and now we're just looking to it when there's no more authority to end things. Expenditures increase mainly in the topic area of capital costs, responsibilities, and pension commitments, with an increase of 8.1 billion. As mentioned earlier, this increase is mainly explained by contributions due to the purchase of bonds published in U.S. and EUR, as well as to the reduction in interest rates of domestic and foreign loans. I think there's a reason to guess in this regard that we're primarily moving in this interest period. We're not saving much of this money on the bonds. These interest costs would otherwise have died in the future during the lifetime of the bond bonds, but buying is now getting a lot of money. We are able to reduce debt, we open to new and better markets that show trust in Icelandic economy, and we will certainly clear the path for others who need funding through foreign markets because of their activity. Nor should we belittle the fact that we make room for the future with a lower interest rate for other urgent matters, but this does not change what I said initially, that when everything is put together, it does not save much, not because of this operation alone and see if you look at it in that narrow context. Next, I'm going to go to another subject field, medicine and medicine products. There, expenses increase to nearly 4 billion dollars. An increase of 1.8 billion due to the S-labelled medicinal products is expected, as well as an increase of 1.2 billion for other medicinal products. and contributions for aid tools about 900 million because of a reassessment of the annual budget. The third greatest change in cost is the right of individuals, religion, and judicial management, with an increase of 3 billion. This will most likely account for some 2.4 billion to meet a significant increase in applications for global protection and 550 billion. K. a contribution to the Church because of a so - called church meeting and the revocation of filaments because of what had been written before but is now running its course. The fourth greatest change in cost is the abolition of disability and the affairs of disabled people, with an increase of 2.7 billion. which is explained by the reevaluations of the year's budget. There are two main reasons why, on the other hand, it seems that the amount of expenses due to recent changes made in rights is greater than previously anticipated, and the increase in those who have a right to gain more is more than predicted in the bill. The fifth largest increase in cost is in the field of transportation and communication, where donations increase by nearly 1.9 billion dollars. This will most largely contribute about 1.2 billion more to the urgent construction of the road system and 400 billion. K. The contribution due to the drafting of Herlf and renting of squares during repair was expected to be 200 billion. K. a donation due to additional costs of the construction of the North Land March due to an increase in safety pacification. Each of these matters may be taken completely and thought of the conditions of money laws, the laws of the law on what may have to be done or why in terms of financial contributions. In the case of General's trunk, events occurred that were completely unpredictable and troubled with the ship to be dissolved by the scraping. It is only natural to agree that there was an unforeseen occurrence. Similarly, there was a problem because of the urgent need for roads, which, in a sense, was not possible to predict in the way of reality. That is why an extra 1.2 billion proposal is made for them. Next, I'm going to step in on loans. The 2017 budget expected a total of 140 billion per year and of 1,004 billion by the end of the year. This was to be achieved by staging up the stability of broken banks and the cores of state funds over 40 billion limits to their payment. In 2008, after the 2008 financial crisis in May 2017, U.S.A., a debt fund issued to support Iceland's personal financial status was fully spent in 24.5 billion dollars. On the first half of the year, an outstanding amount of money in the RIKH 18 total dropped by 32.5 billion dollars. to a value, both due to the purchase of state funds on letters and money from Iceland banking. The drop in the category is an important step in limiting the risk of reimbursement. Then foreign debt of state funds fell because of purchases on cash markets, as previously traced. As a team in financial and debt control, the government fund of the owners of the letters made an offer in all the open money of the party and was offered in less than 90% of editions. In October, government funds purchased additional letters at 31 million dollars. Thus, its postmarks are 92 million dollars. The total debt of state funds reached 940 billion dollars. at the end of the first half of the year, which was well under estimated debt at the end of the year under budget 2017. The decline in debt continued in the second half of the year, mainly due to the purchase of RIKH 18. Everything bought back 52 billion dollars. to name in the latter part of the year. Costs of stability were set aside for purchases, but in addition they were funded by the subsidies of the State Fund over the limit. During the spring months, about 29% of Arion's bank items were sold, and 49 billion dollars of sale was returned to the state fund as a payment on the Buyer's bonds. I call attention to the fact that it was not the State that sold the object, it was its owners, but according to stability conditions previously agreed, the value of the sale was set aside in the way I have traced it here, i.e. It is already published, and by the end of the year, the stocks of Arion's stocks were used as stocks, and the value of that sale was paid to the Council of Buy in December. I'm calling it 830 million. K. There have also been efforts to reduce the amount of cash that is currently available in an RIKB 19 account. In December, the state funds of the owners of deposit in euros made paydays in July 2020 an offer for the entire outing of the category. Owners of 53% accepted the government funds and therefore reduced the debt of the state's debt by 49 billion during the operation. Along with the remuneration, the state's budget issued a new deposit in euro to five years, making a sum of 500 million worth of 61 billion dollars. This new bond has a value of 0.5% but it's the most beneficial value the state's ever borrowed. Thus, the total debt of state funds increases by 12.5 billion during the operation. However, it is probably not a final number, so it may be possible to buy up a higher percentage of older editions, but a re-evaluation plan for the current year assumes that the annual debt will be 927.5 billion or just about 76.5 billion below the 2017 budget. Finally, five authorities are requested in the bill, and they are outlined in Article 3. The bill. As for these changes, I allow myself to refer to the subject in the bill itself. A respectable president. I have now considered key elements of the bill to raise funds by 2017. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u55	A respectable president. There are many things about this bill to consider, but because of shorter answers, I'm going to focus on one point and ask others about it in the future. In section 7.18 of increased clearance, contracts with the State's Penitentiary to deliver the stability property of Lindarvoll ehf should be made. has had control and is not considered suitable for the commercial market sale, against the reduction in the pension debt of state funds to the B department of the fund. This means, in effect, that if a stability property is delivered to the B department then it cannot be sold at an acceptable price. It will ultimately impair the pension rights of those pensioners who depend on it because the funds cannot be financed and the government's funds need to be run in cash. If property is sold at higher prices, government funds take back the profits so that the risks of this fall on the pensioners and, in effect, the state's funds. I made a serious comment to the words of this article and wondered if it is normal to do so now in financial contributions, since I don't see anything indelibly, unseen, or something like that applies to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u56	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator is simply saying that certain assets that have been treated by this trusted partner are less sellable than others. The value of society's property has now been incredibly successful, but there are still some properties left. This is simply the idea, which is completely in accordance with the law on the provision of the permafrost proposals, to the state's funds, instead of keeping life in the company of Lindahvál ehf., the scheme of these assets, the little sold property, to the pension fund. It then only depends on the value of the final property exactly how much pension commitment to the fund changes. So the problem can be solved successfully. A senator points out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u57	A respectable president. That is correct, but the wording indicates that this could be interpreted differently, and it is therefore very important to accept this expression so that a decline in the pension debt could not really go through the value of the items sold. The second thing I have in this regard is whether there is a comparable information related to the process of selling these assets within this pension fund based on what it is inside Lindahöls, whether it refers to any other process or transparency in these assets. I worry that there are less responsibilities on open auction than there are on account of who knows how and why the possessions of that one are sold at a price.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u58	A respectable president. This has not been the final outcome, but in itself this clear document, in what way these assets would be provided. As you can imagine, the changes in the State's commitment would not really be calculated and would be binding on the expense of a pension fund, between the pension and the state, but would be simply a plan. If we make it clear that property would be nothing, all the property, then the question remains: Was it harmed to the pensioners? I view this as not because only the State's commitment to finance the fund remains. Regarding the structure of the property arrangement, the same would be the same as the other arrangements of the pension fund on its property, but I think the most likely position of these assets would be - it's probably just what this is most important for the committee if they wanted it - that the fund would keep them out of its lifetime. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u59	Mr. President. V.E.G. At the beginning of his talk, a minister reviewed how to win a budget bill and read from paragraph 26. legal on public finances that the budget for funding should be limited to temporary, unpredictable and inevitable expenses within the budget of the year, as they have not been able to respond to the measures specified in the law of ◯ i.e. Public financial law. When we were putting it down, it was just to try to push the government to have a more careful plan. But when you look at the things under there, you ask yourself, and I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it really so that all these factors fall to what is stated in paragraph 26. the law on government finance? What about a deal between Church and State? It's not an old deal. What about the pier at Flats and then other docks? What about other such small cases that I would have thought were financial matters? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They may now be completely unpredictable and inevitable expenses within the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u60	A respectable president. I traced in my story that there may be an incident, as you may wonder if this assessment was properly performed. I would say that, in general, the Ministry of finance is in the process of setting strict conditions while many other advisers want to relax only the demands. Then there's some special food cases, here's a couple of committees. Each of us needs to be examined individually. I mentioned here the roads, that's for sure, but it was that the presence of tourists continues to increase, and the situation in part of the road system has gradually developed that the government considered necessary to act on. Regarding the church, people have been looking for ways to reach an agreement, and they are still experimenting, which are falling away from a previous requirement. These events can be traced through, and the committee may want to do so as usual. [[The president calls.]] But in the end, I feel that in any case there are expenses that have fallen, and it's a matter of which year they're going to book them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u61	The president wants to court the speakers for their speaking class. For further application, it is effective when the talk period and the red light are completed, and the president twice beats the net on which the hammer rests. That indicates the President is about to hit the bell. Then I hit loose every three seconds. After more than 15 seconds of public speakers, this begins with a continuous bell shake. So speakers could see what this means for people who sit at home, it's very uncomfortable. It damages our speech and damages people's ability to listen to the talks as well. I'm going to court the speakers to respect their speaking lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u62	Mr. President. The problem we face these days is that we just don't have time to review the bill. Therefore, it is particularly important at this point that it is difficult and checked from the highest level. Minister. You must not play the game of smuggling something in here through the budget because the council does not have time to go over it. I'm worried about it when I look over the list that it is -- I just let myself take my mouth away and I'm just passing the government laws on public finance, past the fences set when we were working on these matters. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether in the bill before 2018 there is enough money in reserves to reduce the impact of funding that will be due to appear in 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u63	A respectable president. This has not been too much of a reserve. There are reserves in the cause, but there is a provision for a general reserve, which I turned from my background. There is a very similar view of arrangements made from a general reserve, and of the funds, and perhaps with reference to the fact that such a reserve is expected to be less than a cause to be asked for financial provisions in budgets. On the other hand, we may not have shaped the rule, nor can we make it clear from the law that it is only when the reserve has been fully replaced and empty to be taken up for financial purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u64	A respectable president. We've had a hell of a lot of luck mastering the government. A new financial law was designed to help us with that project, including They put a special reserve into the budget to meet unexpected and unexpected expenses. There's a lot of things I know about my former jobs here that I can't deny responsibility. There are also many things that are just very positive, like faster subsidies of debt. It saves future interest costs. But it doesn't change that we're still going to be about 3% over the budget, as they were approved here a year ago. That's exactly what our average has been since 2010. This is not an improvement in our 9 billion reserves at the same time recommended. So I ask the highest. Financial Minister: How is it that the reserve reserves are not started before it is applied to the Generals' reserves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u65	President. It is true that especially historically, this has been a major problem. This is the 2010 season. From that time on, it was far better than it was, history. I took up this point earlier that about one third of the budgets requested in this financial bill is simply because of a decision to buy a foreign version in dollars and then in euros, which I think was a good counsel and reasonable one. In terms of the reserve, the problem is to start by using it that it is much less transparent. There is much more transparency, e.g. to the council to bring their authority just and to ask for the council to remove them from one by one. Although a financial minister is expected to recognize the provision of a reserve to the committee, this is more yielding.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u66	Mr. President. I think it would be slow to correct, to give the council a simple report on the provision of a reserve, and thus render his provision. Of course, the problem is the same. It's true that we were even worse here in the years before, but it's still not good enough. Public financial laws were designed to improve that success. This is actually the first time we're working on that law, and it doesn't promise enough, if you're gonna say it right now. And what is also of concern is that since 2010 we have exceeded 3% of the budget in budgets and 7% in total in terms of state accounts. Hence, you are afraid that the conclusion may again be the same. I miss it too, and I may find it further in my speech on the budgets, that it is extremely small for the infor mitigating and unforeseeableness of the expenditures for which this is called.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u67	A respectable president. That is, in fact, the point, you need to consider each case. If we were to wonder, for example. To us big things. I've mentioned here the sale of foreign bonds. Then we know. That's one-third of the problem. Next thing you know, they're buying medication, like I traced back to the beginning. Of course, we can discuss whether we should have bought four billion less. It was decisions that led to the year's office. They said: Here are the animals that are called left to save lives in 2017. Will we refuse access to such drugs at the hospital? The conclusion was not to do so. There are many billions of people that we will be able to handle with it. So are the perps of the shelterers. I've heard the opinion that it was anticipated that we should have done better on projection because of 2017. However, there is a total of 2 billion external expenses, totally unpredictable or that could not be prevented. It's one of the teams. Then I could finally mention what has to do with social security. [[The president calls.]] How was social security spending to be stopped beyond what was supposed to be done? I'm calling for an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u68	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the warrants. This is a warrant for a deal with Mosfellstown that the town pays contract interest instead of tow interest because of a case that Mosfellstown lost against the State. I'd like to ask a minister what the amount of money you're talking about and what the contracts he's going to make in these contracts. If that amount is 100 million, it is about 60 million that the state may give away as a result of low contract growth instead of tow. Why is this law so important? Question number two, second entry. Request permission to negotiate with the Blue Forest Company through gymnasiumsiums and pools, etc. Why are these assets not simply offered on a free market? Today, a number of people are looking for opportunities at this market. I think it's a little special that the Minister should ask for this warrant in view of the possibility that we may be forfeiting certain assets on behalf of the government, which, of course, we should not. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u69	President wants a trial on the platform. All right, that's all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u70	A respectable president. Regarding Mosfells, there is a reasonable conclusion that the members of the case who have debated the requirement and accepted that they bring the court's way in when it was concluded that the rate of contracts would apply, not to the point of contract growth. This, of course, is an assessment. This should be discussed in particular here. I don't have the numbers, so I trust to trace them. Then it's about Lake Saturday. There is a special, independent legal authority to negotiate with rural communities for purchases without advertisements. I believe, in that case, it has been particularly successful. It is often based on agreements with rural society rather than on public markets. [[The president calls.]] It is as listed in the law of a special building that the town intends to use, i.e. continue taking this medicine even if you are not going to take it for yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u71	Mr. President. On a financial committee, we receive a number of requests that include a great need for money. I wondered if these millions of people we may be delivering Mosfellstown may be better spent on other projects. It's a little strange. In the second answer, I would like to ask for another authority. It is a law to negotiate with the city of Reykjavík on property. With this contract, the state gets land within the airport. Does this have to do with the Minister's opinion in any way that he or she is being fixed on the Watermur airport? Number two: Has any assessment of the value of this site been made? Can we possibly face the fact that the government will have to pay some money on the basis of the agreements that will be supported by this authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u72	A respectable president. It refers to an agreement made public or will declaration made by June 2 of this year, between the minister of finance and the head of the economy and the mayor of the city of Reykjavík. But with respect to the value of the underlying area, it is often agreed that it will depend on the quality of the future in the affected areas. It will be clearly revealed. However, this is a common declaration of willingness to develop areas and countries in the city of Reykjavík, owned or ruled by the State. Some of these cards may be so that there will be no results. We can name the living room floor. Perhaps comments on the ideas of the evolution of the hill that lead to a lack of awareness of how to put it into the use that was set before them. We'll find out soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to be able to give a meaningful talk on any additional financial authority, to find out if any statements in the bill are accurate or impossible, but I'm sorry, I can't. This bill appeared late last night, and there have been other related financial laws and stuff. So I'm gonna have to ask the Minister here and ask for an explanation. There are a number of things that I feel are contrary to the plan of budgeting laws on public finances. I want to know every source, increased source, unexpected, or premature or special issue that government law demands that the case be resolved. A minister spoke earlier about the general reserve. I would be interested to know how the general reserve has been used to cope with the financial resources discussed in the budget. It should take the reserves before especially going to the fundraiser. The law on government finance states that a minister should promptly explain where there is a trend toward overauthority, making a report explaining what a minister intends to do to avoid overauthorities. I'd like to ask a minister if such a report has been received, for example. Legal committee, like she's supposed to. I was on a budget committee at the last assembly, not remembering having received such a report. I remember being told that this was an examination, and I'd be dealing with it on a budget. It naturally violates the laws on public finances. I'd like to ask if the size of the budget has been identified, if that's less than ever before. It was only noted in the previous answers that this might be similar to 2010. I'd like to get some more numbers on that. And what I find truly important is this: Have any commitments been established because of some of the sources that are being sought for financial resources? Has there already been a commitment to any of the issues discussed here? It was also said that the distribution from reserves was yet to be done. Given what I said before, I object. As I said to a minister without delay, explain when a plan is exceeded and explain how he is going to prevent it, come and explain why he is going to use the reserve to pay the excess of sources. According to my knowledge, only reports that there are certain weaknesses and funding teams will exceed sources. Based on this and the discussion that took place on the 2017 budget, where certain scenarios were presented for the formation of the security endpoints, the figures on the budget proposals are no surprise. It had been assumed that the body of funds would exceed that authority. However, there was a relatively new law written about foreigners that authorized a minister to do things that would save in that process. Let's look at the amount. That number is 2.4 billion, or 2 billion, to be sure that it is not over. At the same time, the Foreign Institute is plus the Exhibit Committee 900 million. You could buy three NTSBs and two Foreign Offices or something extra for that money, to speed up a trial, e.g., treatment of lawsuits, so that the waiting list would not be as long. Would it be an idea to expand with the NTSB to tackle the waiting list? Would it save more money against the waiting time that others have? There was no such thing as reported to the Committee, no attempt to take any of such measures. There is only more authority on the D.A. and the Foreign Institute, but considering the amount of 2 billion, it must be used to meet the waiting period that is bad for everyone. He is bad for us who are under those costs and bad for them to apply for asylum, for they are in doubt. Sources were discussed earlier. So I'm going to let it be right now. But it definitely needs to explain why they're in the budget, not just the budget for 2018 that we're dealing with right now. It does not take many days for these sources to receive them now and get them in so that they will be at the end of the year. I don't understand, unless some kind of commitment has been made. I'd appreciate an explanation. I also call attention to the key changes in the bill, which speaks of a 2.2% increase in budget 2017, i.e. ... thatdesignsauthorities for interest fees, which are more than the increase from bill 2018 in September/December. In view of the discussions that have been about 2% of the increase in bill 2018 in September/December, I found this interesting. Then there's more money to add than that. I wondered how beneficial it is to talk about further budgets on budget bill 2018 if we may expect to receive another 2% at the end of next year. What does that mean for the criticism here? It is all in this that violates the firm that should be at baseline under official financial law. We'll do it right after we do it. It is the very law on public finances that should prevent such exposure to public finances. If this is going to be the new job, I don't understand why they don't do something right now. Are you going to do the new thing after this or some other time? When do you start? These are things that I scratch in my head, and I don't entirely fit what I feel is trying to be successful with the laws on public finances, government contracts, and other matters. On page 40 it is also said that transport expenses increase by 1.8 billion because of the urgent efforts that were not expected in the budget of the year. How does that fit the meaning of the money? I don't understand. These are things that have to be explained by the laws on public financial matters and the purpose of financial contributions. What occurrences or factors regarding the specific variations allowing the budget are explained to the application for increased clearance? By the end of December, I don't see that I'm waiting for that money. I feel more likely that these commitments have been formed and have been obtained afterwards. This does not fit the charge that has to be done with the reserve. I don't think it fits. I'd appreciate a better explanation for the situation. In terms of interest costs and costs for them, as this year all costs: Buying out the interest of the next year is what they are buying out this American loan. It would just as well be possible for the interest calculated for the next year to fail in that year and not all in 2017. I think it's very convenient to make a certain amount of space for the next year, rather than let them hit 2017. I don't know if there's anything unusual about that, but I thought that was an interesting comment to compare, if it was normal. Maybe it's normal, I don't know, maybe it's not. But it would be interesting to analyze more fully whether there is something in the bank in general that recommends it or not. As I said, it was not possible to go through all this in the short time since the bill was submitted, since there is plenty of other work to be done by the end of December. You had a few cases to cover. About 10,20, religion. That's what they said in the answers to earlier. How is this unseen? How does the decision of a court official recently affect the pay of priests and bishops? Has it been calculated? Was it perhaps just waiting on the fundraiser until the chicken board was finished so that it was definitely the right number? That would be interesting to know. I don't understand why it's unforeseeable, except for the decision of a dresser. But the basis, regardless of the decision of a dresser's Council - there's no surprise to that, which is certainly the largest part of the budget. The Ministry of Justice speaks of Frontex, a European border agency, which cannot be dealt with in current financial terms. I just think it's going against the purpose of the budget. Those words say that this is not something unexpected or unpredictable. It just wasn't easy to deal with it. We didn't have time, and we'll do it later in the fundraiser. I don't think it's up to the law on money. That's not that tall, 46.5 million. K. Why have they not been accounted for in the transfer of languages, issues, or reserves? This is the very short, rough review of the budget bill that I caught late last night as well as trying to complete some committee opinion of the 2017 budget, as well as some other cases that have gone by. I expect and hope that we can handle this discussion a little more accurately and actually use the laws on public finances. I know it's the highest. A minister of finance is interested in applying the laws on public finances, which involved his putting the law into practice. Following them should be minimal, at least trying to explain how the budgets being applied to fit the law and to be more honest with them in some way if it doesn't fit and propose to the Council: Would you please help us?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u74	A respectable president. A lot of issues have come into play. Senator. I'm going to try to get as much away from me as possible in a short answer. First of all, I'm giving myself a report from the financial and economic secretary's office on the financial status at some point in the middle of the year, that's totally traditional. I also feel that all the key issues that we will discuss here, i.e. ... thatwe'dgetoutofprojects like that. the drugs, which are very difficult and difficult to deal with, said that there was a greater cost and increase in the number of disability and elderly than expected in the bill and if this was explained. I call attention to the fact that there has been a higher growth of disability this year and, in fact, in recent years than there has been a growing demographic in this society. I must also mention here that the budget is, of course, a plan on a number of such factors. It is not to be expected that we will meet at least the next year's expenses with the budget of individual legal expenses. Since commitments have not been established, the state is firmly established without legal authority, that is clear. When I turned aside to the reserve and compared it with the bonus, I was referring specifically to 2 mg. 24th par. about public financial matters, which says: ▪ A secretary makes decisions on making donations made from a reserve fund and informs the WHO budget of its use when a decision is made. Whatever it is. A senator here traced to the duties of the Minister in order to account for the financial qualifications against his work, so it is the duty of the Ministers to do so. But in the 24th. is said to be a provision of a reserve. [[The president calls.]] Whether the secretary of finance will make that decision and a staff and then come and tell how it all ended or whether this will be discussed at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u75	A respectable president. There are some good things here, for example. About the reserve. Then the Minister will initiate the announcement of the situation and what action he intends to take. It'll probably fit into the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the general reserve that comes to the head of the budget and possibly the General Assembly if a special financial bonus is needed, or it can stop the general reserve where it's explained. For a report on the situation, it was extremely thin, I must say. Since drugs and the development of disability and the elderly are mentioned at the beginning of the year, we were told that drugs were being taken over and the amount seems to be up to me. At this point, it was not established for action to be taken. At that point, it was not clear how a general reserve should be taken to meet it. At the point when the word may be passed out, we should resort to funding, but not after, as it seems to be happening right now, we don't want to be sought out. We want to search the sources in advance, for according to the Constitution, no fee can be paid unless there is access to funds or funds. If commitment has been established before the budget is approved, it is simply a violation of the Constitution. So I ask again, because I think it's a really important question: Has any commitments been made that are trying to get access to there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u76	A respectable president. If we look e.g. In itself, the bill is not making any new commitments. It is making commitments in time. However, there is a conflict here with legal obligations, such as ... toimporture Social Insurance and financing. There has always been a view that such sources could be obtained by means of a financial bill. I don't know about any other commitments. I'll point, for example. in that if we take land and land, that is under the declaration of will and so on. Other than that, these are inexplicable expenses, such as. ... becauseofmurderers. They're here on a plane. They're here on our responsibility. There's no way they won't mind paying it. It is a good discussion. A senator will set off here, e.g. for financial management within the budget. The law on public financial matters is well discussed, as you can see from the 34th article. It starts with the Minister of that kind. He has been obliged to respond and to inform the Ministry of finance, and then, according to government and minister's case, to the legal committee. Then a financial committee can ask for information from each minister. It is written by the law that the Prime Ministers should bring matters back into their budget. In turn, politicalism is about how hard we want to work for people to stay within the box, whether to cut down drug expenses by taking drugs out of the medication list or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u77	A respectable president. That's very interesting. This has conflicted, and it has been considered to be possible to collect these sources from the funds provided. But it is just the old work force that was supposed to change by government law, as far as I can get it. I totally understand the money on the loan, all right, it's quite understandable that she's coming into the money supply compared to any amount of money there, that they don't come into the reserve. It should be possible very soon. However, the amount of money above the budget was highly predictable, e.g. medicines and payments for disability and the elderly. Based on the current arrangement, the budget should have been applied earlier on government funds, since the general reserve was not to be used, since the process of using the general reserve or whether a professional minister was going to be involved in transfers within the area to settle the share would never be carried out. The answers to those questions were merely to go to the fundraiser. It was just January /February. If a minister understands what I mean about that part of the surveillance and the implementation of the search for financial resources. I think the main thing in this is what it looks like to apply for authority afterwards and what we should change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u78	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to cover 2017. As I understood. A minister earlier in his reply to council inquiry felt as if he approached it as if it were just a question of how we simply booked the government's expenses. Of course, that is not the case at all. There have been new laws on public financial matters that would completely change this work. Hence, the failure to do something better is disappointing. It's not about booking something this year instead of the next one. Investment laws were to be carried out on temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. Then, unexpected expenses could be dealt with by transfer or by means of a reserve. Then we're gonna get a budget bill now that we're up to 25 billion. It is not a question of whether the projects are good or whether we support the use of more money in the field or in the pharmaceutical business. That's not what this discussion is about. It is about the decision to change the treatment of government funds in a good way. We were taking progressive steps, in my opinion. I think the government law on the handling of public funds is good law. But we need to do it. I also understood the minister so early that he indicated that there would come a time when we would use less money and more reserves. But that time is now. The law is in effect, and we're supposed to follow it today, not in the future. I make general comments to this approach of the Minister, if I understand it correctly. It is by no means in the spirit the law demands. I know he agrees. I suppose the highest. Ministers want to operate in the spirit of these laws that we are to work for. If so, we would not be seeing 25 billion allowances. It's right in front of us. We see that President General Review has brought up the following in a report to Generalis by permission of the President: ▪ The main purpose of a government law on government finances, No. 123/2015, was promoting closer adherence to the government budget, thus avoiding changes in the budget. I guess even achieve this aim by improving the government budget and increasing flexibility in the implementation of budgets, such as the reduction in funding, the increased potential for transfer between budgets, and the use of reserves. I don't feel like we're applying these guidelines, and really far from there. I just want to skate over a few things that are quite surprising to someone that is found in this bill. Let us turn to page two. Here's a figure of nearly 100 million. K. contribution to the implementation of domestic expenses for land rights. That's what I'm talking about. One hundred million is not a small sum. This is not some unforeseen cost, this is 100 million at the National Court that we decided here at the council to form. It's a classic thing that should only be on budgets, be a part of a real professional plan. Number two. Court office. We weren't discovering it today. Some 7 million should be added to meet the premium costs. Let's move on. The religion. It's being added to the budget, 550 million. K. a contribution to the National Church because of a government and church contract. Please return from 1997, as I recall Björn's Bjarnason was a success. Before that, we made a deal with the church, I think in 1903, about what to do with churches. In turn, the State would pay the clergy's wages. There is no new reality here. Still, it's 550 billion. K. money through extras. This kind of thing just belongs to the budget. Investments are for something unseen, temporary. That's not it. Let's move on. Over 35 million. K. The contribution is due to the increase in Member States' budgets for Frontex, the European borders Agency, which could not be addressed in current budgets. It doesn't really get any clearer. Of course, this is part of the law. This is a direct reference to the failure of these forces to be placed in budgets; just put them in budgets. It's just not allowed. You can't think of it like this. Let's just move on a little bit. Transport. Transport is one of the most discussed cases at the council. Here we are calling for authorization to put 1,200 million in addition to making an additional project. Many of these projects are urgent and good, it's just not about that. It's about applying the laws that we ourselves have set up. EuroRap has considered dangerous roads in Iceland. It is not surprising that money is missing in transport procedures in Iceland. We're not supposed to finance it through budgets. This is not a matter of a quarrel about Caesar's beard. It is of great importance that we do this properly and legally. Less than 80 million. K. The donation is to address the costs of action on knowledge and ports. It's the highest. Minister, are you really trying to convince us that this is an unexpected cost, unseen? How to add nearly 80 million to knowledge and ports? V.E.G. Minister, I would like a minister to simply put this on the budget bill and we'll discuss it at that level, not under budgets. More than 60 million in an Annex Convention with Farice Again, the budget calls for this kind of expenses, not financial support. 665 million to the sheep'farmers to deal with their problems. Why don't they put it in the budget? We also have a very handsome livestock contract of over 14 billion, which has a revised law of opinion and of such, ten years' market agreement. We've got over 700 million in here. K. additional efforts to cope with the problems farmers face. That's ten days left in the year. Why don't we put this into the budget bill we're discussing in those words? Let's just move on a little bit. Less than 60 million to increase landguards at a Lake Earth park. In my opinion, the Ministry of Environment is not authorized to call for an increase in groundkeeping unless it has funds to do so. We've got some funding coming up. If the highest. Environment Minister wants to increase the protection he needs to do it correctly, get financial funds. The government is not at the minister's house, it's in this hall, with the generals. In addition, there are about 100 million for the EEA's increased groundkeeping. It's just a bad government, bad approach we decided in 2015 to leave, not work like this. But now we see it again in 2017. Harpa, 243 million. I'm afraid the trouble of the Harpa is not new. The problem should be solved again, or an attempt to save the Harpa will be made in this way through the budget. 60 million temporary contributions to High School, which I now remember to remember were in trouble. Why don't we resolve this problem? Why do we resort to the budget? 30 million on a grammatical project. This is a new assignment. Then let's put it on the budget. This isn't supposed to be in any of the budgets. Or we can use reserves if any of these tasks meet those requirements. 110 million to meet serious molds in the Land Hospital It is the nature of the case that mold takes time to form. But again, let's put some money in Land Hospital. I have repeated in this public talk, calling for more money. However, we do not do so in this way, using means of money, going around the back door, which is certainly not the thought of the law we are to operate on. Mr. President. I can, for example, mention an endless case. Yes, the medication. V.E.G. Minister mentioned them. Of course, I want people to get good medicine.e I want the government to be the source of the cost. But we also need to make plans for success, making practical plans. It's not little money we're talking about here, 3 billion looks like it to me. This is not something unexpected, unexpected. This is a serious under-established plan of the need. Of course, I realize that the need for medication can be difficult to evaluate. I'm very fair about that. But when the numbers are so big, it's just bad management and bad plans. In terms of disability, 2,200 million are called after to raise the budget for the seminary, in line with an updated projection of the Insurance Agency. You know something about evolution. During the past few years, the number of microspheres has increased, while 2,200 million, is far from that of some traditional failure to plan. There's something major going on with the government if it's supposed to be the rule. I know and I hope to the highest. Ministers simply agree that we need to do much better at work. I think a Senate may have seen, I hope, that the bill is defective and not at all in the spirit that the law calls for is not in harmony with the law. I'll just say it, the budget isn't set up like this. They were used this way, often misused, as the world of Congress knows. But with the new law, we were not to see 25 billion dollars. - Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The budget was to be an exception. That's why it's so disappointing. A minister I think highly of should wear this bill on the table because this is not what the law calls. Finally, I just want to go back to the warrants I asked the highest. Minister in a short answer earlier. I only discussed a request for permission to come up with a contract with Mosfellstown that the town pays contract interest instead of tow. Mosfellstown loses the case against the state, the highest. Minister says it's fair to just charge them for a contract rate, which I call back on how high it will be, it's a very important matter, fair business to give Mosfellstown a discount on a contract, don't require to raise a tow. This is not in harmony with what the State demanded in the matter. The State demanded and won a tow raise. That's why I don't understand this discrepancy as the highest degree. There's a secretary of finance on this table. So is Blue Forest. Why not try? Now I know that Fridays speak the highest. Secretary of finance to represent free competition. Why should we not simply place these assets in a free market to see if we have a better offer? There are a number of people who seek opportunities to expand their service to tourists and the locals. Why simply agree with one party? Here I am thinking about the interests of the government box. I wondered why we might be accepting this warrant in this way. I know it's the highest. The minister could not answer in a short answer earlier, but I'd like to ask about this turnaround at the airport. Tells you the highest. Minister that the state should land within the airport fence so that there is some kind of evidence that the airport should be in the water mares for a long time? Or is it not in any way related to that discussion? It's fine to have just the minister's short cheek in this regard. I'm gonna make it work, chief. President, and hope to the highest. A minister can give me some answers to my main talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u79	A respectable president. I completely agree with the requirement. A member of the U.S. Senate has found that we are using the amount of funds and that we try to follow the spirit of the law by means of financial proposals in financial contributions, but it is not really possible to take this discussion without skimming over the big lines. I agree that 24 billion, of course, are enormously large, but when about a third of that amount is explained by the purchase of existing bonds and are not actually new commitments, we have taken a third. When we look at something else, it's really become a matter of whether it was a mistake. It cannot be overlooked that budgets are up to a degree on the basis of legal rights that we have guaranteed people. Social security is the most obvious example. Whether or not we should sign it on budgetary or budget it for making budgets, e.g. that we ended up with billions of over payments in 2017 on the sake of social security? In 2017, both the costs of altering rights and the growth of disability are underestimated. It can also be asked with the medicines. I don't think there are many good examples in this financial bill that there are simply financial releases. But it is where we should look. [[The president calls.]] Then all the factors can be handled. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u80	Mr. President. I reviewed so many cases in my passage, a great example of how, in my opinion, about the exact releases of a project, all these events I set up here that would not belong on budgets but either in 2017 budgets, should have been put in there, or should have simply lived in a budget bill for 2018 which will take effect after a literal ten days. There were so many examples. I felt that I did not even take in gray areas. It can be a lot of problems in a gray area. I'm going to understand the highest. A minister so that he will never again stand up to 25 billion dollars. utilities bill, unless something particularly unpredictable, temporary, and inevitable, occurs. I hope that he will deliver this message to the Ministry of Congress, and it is important that we at the council send a clear message, not just to the highest level. The secretary of finance keeps all ministers, that this blessed Ministry must do better in planning. It is only a new reality they operate on, a reality in which public finance is established. That's why it's important that we take this discussion here. We've been calling for a change in working shape, an improved plan. We'd like to take these extra cash away. They are a child of their time, unless it is something that is precisely temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. All these requirements must be met. That's what they're thinking. I hope to the highest. Ministers take that message into their Ministry, and we don't have to watch a bill like that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u81	A respectable president. That's the whole point. Is this a failure in the government budget or in the plan? As I'm always referring to, we are making a large plan on how much laws of spending will cost us in the financial work for the next year. I think it's possible to say with the billions of them because of the trustees that this is not a good enough plan. I think it's safe to say about social security that it did not pass. I'm gonna ask myself about the medication. Looks like it's finally arrived in some cycle with them. We set our goals, and we plan for any drug cost, but each time there is a lack of drug abuse or interest in taking up new drugs, there is no resistance, despite the fact that it is far beyond the framework of the current year. I call attention to the fact that since we were standing here a year ago until next year, the numbers for medicine and medical products have gone up to 6 billion. A year ago, we estimated the cost of 2017, and now we watch 2018. Expenditures for 2018 are 6 billion higher than we thought 2017 would be. That's a lot of money. They will take us into the future each year and will increase. I'm going to tell you about the statement with Reykjavíkurburg that it is not being given to the state some new property that they are about to take care of in some way in connection with the airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u82	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister asks himself: " Is this a question of failure or lack of a good plan or plan? Maybe it's both, in my opinion. We have often witnessed releases in the state's financial affairs. And then we see a persistent lack of professional planning. I think, whatever the case, it is clear that the Council of the budget has to be handled in a much more intensive way by its surveillance obligation to the European Commission, especially with regard to the implementation of budgets. I know that a new legal committee holds hope that it will be done right after a New Year's Eve, that a budget and a Senate system will be much more active, or that it will be more effective to monitor the development of budgets, and that it will be a failure of the government. We can't afford one. It's a government business made up of the city's tax dollars. We are under obligation to be well treated with the funds that are being made up of. Also, I would like to point out that often we may be invited to a meeting of members of the council that points to a particular need. This is especially true in the field of health care. These are government agencies that say: It is headed for this need in relation to your legal obligations. We need to do this service according to the law decided by the council. These institutions call for more money. Then, whatever he is, the greater part decides not to accept that wish. This is not to be followed and say that this was an unpredictable lack of capital. She was very sorry. Such a need had already been identified by the institution; the trend would be this in the number of patients, and disability, etc. The majority cannot push down the responsibility and say, "Yes, let's solve this with financial aid. Ingredients are only for unforeseen expenses. Knowing that the need is ahead of us is not an unforeseen amount of expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u83	President. I would like to address only the legal requirements of public financial matters, which lasts at a time, unseen, and inevitable. There are some things a minister needs to explain when he submits the law; why each of these three extras meets these requirements, because that's the ◯ and ◯. I think it's right for you to come out here and tie up what you're saying about it. It's very difficult during the discussion to say, "Counsels." And so on, there's always all three conditions. Then I'd like to ask. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson of the increase mentioned, this 2.2%, if we take over the interest rate of 8 billion. That's a 2.2% increase in budget 2017. Now we've got a what? A senator precisely criticizes the current budget, i.e. September till December, December, for a slight rise, an increase of 2%. On the other hand, a minister may overemphasize that increase, but he now makes little less than 2.2% of the increase in budget 2017. There's a minister who makes a big 2% rise in September through December, but a little less than a 2.2% raise in the budget of 2017. Because of what? A senator drew attention to the fact that this was just a 2% rise in September until December 14th, I'd like to hear his opinion of how it fits together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u84	A respectable president. Thank you for an interesting question. Yeah, I think the difference between the budgets, this 2.2% anomaly, is a lot in this context, especially in the light of the demands we're doing under budgetary law. That's a lot. But I can quite say that when I compare the budget bill in September with the budget bill today, and the difference is 2%, I think it's very small. Then I'll put it in the political reality we're doing. Then I criticize all the government groups that promised far more than 2% change in the September bill. It was now one group that literally promised an injection of $100 billion in the wood. It was the Independence Party. I checked the index of all the classes, and there was no group that would put such a number into a policy file outside the Independence Party. Other groups of directors stressed that we are here before much infrastructure. Therefore, I was greatly disappointed to see that the financial bill that we are discussing today was having only a 2 percentage deviation from that bill, which at least two of the three government categories were critical. If I put it in that uniform, 2% ain't nothing. Like what? A senator knows, and almost all members of Congress and stakeholders who came to the branch office where both of us are sitting have been identified as being small in this budget bill and in no way in any way consistent with what was promised only seven weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u85	President. An introduction to a budget suggests that the laws on public finances should reduce the need and scope of budgetary donations. So, yes, definitely; 2.2% of the budgets of 2017 are extremely high in budgets, but perhaps not much in connection with budgets that depend on larger policies. I should have written this down, it's always like when you get up in a pit, you fall out of gear. I had some really nice injection that I'm gonna have to come to later. I agree with you, by the way. A senator, the role of a budget law on public finances, is not to be far less extensive in view of the fact that we are also working on the 2018 budget bill in an enormously complex setting. It is a question of how good it can be made and what responsibility it places on the government in the subsequent oversight process. We have very little information about what we're really agreeing to for financial purposes, we've had a small review of what is actually expected to be financed under the financial bill. If we ask after: Are you sure you are making money for this assignment? we do not know, for we were not told that we were going to do a certain task. At least not all the money that is expected in financial terms. We're only allowed to know a few projects, five to ten, or so in each subject's field. But the whole frame is unexplained.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u86	Mr. President. Just a moment. I think that's what we're talking about. In view of the shortness of time, a senator hit the head of this issue. In view of the fact that the Senate budget has only one week to discuss a budget bill that usually takes three months to cover, it puts an even greater demand on us on the committee and on all professional committees to have a very high level of observation and to be very interested in calling for information from the government and observing whether this is being handled properly and so on. The time is short to discuss the budget bill. It's even shorter when we discuss the budget. Today, there are 25 billion of them. There's more money than funded at the University of Iceland. There are no little ones. It is not a small amount when we draw it all together: 25 billion, which we are home to with these financial provisions. We'll have a few hours to talk about it. I know that the work within the budget board will be primarily virtual. I think all members of Congress know that. I'm afraid it's going to be in a very bad way because there's no time. I don't think we'll take an entire meeting to discuss this case, which is unfortunate. Of course, we should spend much more time discussing both the budget and the budget laws, for the public sees that these methods are not for our advantage and that they are not professional in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u87	Madam President. We'll discuss budgets in a very special situation. The time is short to investigate the case in which the bill was distributed yesterday. It's worth stopping on a few things here. It is, as shown in the conference case, it is of no small importance to contribute a total budget of 25 billion dollars. Granted, there are good causes, such as increased expenses for interest costs, where economic loans, which save us future interest costs, but there is also a significant lack of maintenance in many other areas. First, I would like to pause for the tremendous short period of time that the Congress has been able to discuss these big changes, especially in view of the fact that the budget indicates that this is being introduced to all the additional financial expenditures of the state at the last hour that are not at all unpredictable, inevitable, or monotonous costs of any kind, but only conventional problems. The contribution of the state funds is good, and it is used in part of the scope of the budget, where recovery was considerably better than expected in budgets, in order to further increase expenses. Of course, this is very serious and is completely contrary to the careful practices that were tried to establish a new government law. In fact, it is becoming quite clear that the law is working extremely little. They are not the maintenance of Congress, nor the execution of power in the expenditure of state funds. We grow in exactly the same way as we used to. The increase in budgets now is totally the same proportion as the previous six years. There's no change. This means that we have no success in improving our practice. That's very thought - provoking. That is why, in fact, when executives play that game once again in the shelter of good living to get a comfortable budget here and there, confident that the council has little or no time to settle down. It must be taken to the minimum if the council is to be able to complete a discussion on the budget that there is a much better rational support to the budget, why this is inevitable now, how it is expected that this has not been permitted in the budget itself. I would like to take a few examples of how such practices have affected the work done by both the European Commission and the Council, in the budget itself. Let us look at factors such as the obvious additional expenditure in order to negotiate with farmers in view of the basic problem of sheep farmers. I will not minimize the problem of sheep farmers. I know, however, that there has not even been a negotiation with farmers about what to do or how to take care of these funds. In my mind, it is obvious that this is a budget that belongs in 2018 will be paid in 2018, if at any rate. At the very least, I've missed that report if the arrangements have been negotiated. Of course, there is no such thing as the inevitable one. This is a contract between state and peasants, and no commitment by the government that can't be avoided if one is willing or willing to fire until the next year, if the government's will is to strengthen the position of farmers. There are other factors that draw attention. To make expenses for the church, I would like to mention some. That's at least For the third time in a row the unpredictable, unexpected, and inevitable additional expenses to the church are made in financial contributions. Why is it not being handled in financial terms? Let us watch factors like expenses for foreigners. It was totally anticipated and in effect ignored in the handling of the council in 2017 that the cost of this group of litigation would be much higher in 2017 than expected. This was discussed with the handling of budgets, and the budget was warned at the time. It was quite clear that the dramatic influx of trust seekers and completely unrealistic was to assume that the cost of 2017 would be less than in 2016, as it has come in the day, it proved significantly larger, but there was no unforeseen situation. For some reason, the project chose to overlook the obvious cost of budgeting in 2017. That's exactly what I'm talking about when it comes to the bad practices that result from such factors. You can be sure that the council will solve the budget and, as it has always been done, be the work that is being done in an effort to change the law on public finances. The same can be said for e.g. The development of disability. It was anticipated that budget 2017 was very careful to estimate the potential increase or incidence of disability relative to recent trends. As the day went by, the council was all too busy and now forced to return to the budget. Other factors could be mentioned, such as road expenses. That increase was discussed in the last government. I always meant that the budget, the budget, or reserve reserves, was being set out for an increased emphasis on road construction, since these are not unforeseen or inevitable expenses. This is the decision to do more than was expected in financial matters. As a result, this is not a place for financial support. It belongs in the provision of a reserve budget of the year. The same can be thought about drugs. In recent years, the increase or increase in drug costs was expected to substantially reduce drug costs during the current year since 2016 in the budget. There seems to be a significant misprogramm of the executive's being sheltered for financial support, once again. More may be picked up, and some coins might be considerably lower than those mentioned, since these are not sums of the lower type, 3 billion at medical cost, 2.5 billion in foreign affairs, about 3 billion in social security, and so on. I say again that I can agree that 8 billion more interest rates in 2017 due to early payments on state funds are unexpected and unpredictable, I don't say, inevitable but desirable expenses, because it saves us money ahead of time, and it's perfectly normal that such expenses will come into the budget. But I don't think that most of what is picked for anything else is going to pass this test, that it's unpredictable and inevitable. There we need to get much better support from the Commission, when decisions on these expenditures were made, the rational support behind, how to avoid this fall in this year if possible, why was it not taken into account by the Commission on the part of the council to face unsurpassed, inevitable expenses during the year? As shown in the case of the highest standards, the European Commission is not able to maintain their reserves. Secretary of finance, until the last day of the year. What is the point of this reserve if it is not intended for unexpected, unexpected expenses? It will not change the work programme if the Commission never has to shoulder any responsibility, never to resort to any convenience or cutbacks, but will always be able to continue the same procedures as this, that this is clicked into the budget when it works well, and it is obvious that there is going to a good deal of government funds. This does not help us to master a steady charge and a stable exit drive from both the budgets and back to our credit account or to make a success of those resources. I think when you look at these problems, as you look at how a new government financed it, where all the interests of government government government are violated, the question is: If there is nothing to do in the spirit of the work written there, why was there a review of the law on public finance? That's exactly what's being added to the state's budget, to increase the permanence of the state's budget, to ensure that the constant expeditation, the constant uncontrollable increase, I would say, in the section of the state's budget is being submitted. It's not gonna happen. It's very obvious when you get there, for example. that the budget charge for 2018 is that there is no hurry to the economic policy as soon as it does not work for the political more part at any given time, which means that the law is completely meaningless. It's not working on it. It's not working it out. It's not working it out. That's why I think we have to take very seriously when this one comes in with this kind of money. Work for the old song, once again. The obvious procedure should have been that in terms of increased spending decisions, many of these are decision-making, first being on a reserve, that is only in those cases where it is quite obvious that it is of the magnitude, so unpredictable, so unavoidable or desirable, as in the case of debt, that such contributions are made. Otherwise, there will never be any continuation of the executive authority. In fact, it will continue systematically to be able to overemphasize expenses that can be trusted that the council will then arrange for a financial discussion in due course. I remember that in 1st. of this changed process was spoken of, and hopes were raised to hear the story, that would not have to be taken to him from time to time in an emergency, but here we sit or stand, at all times the person standing here, and to discuss again the financial contributions of exactly the same magnitude as before. There's no change. Therefore, I think we must carefully examine, and there is very little amount of time, the nature of these spendings, how inevitable they are, and when decisions were made, because at least to the extent that I know what I know, I feel that there have been several benefits since the discussions in the previous government that I can't see better than are of the exact same magnitude as before. They're making good use of the treasure of the state to spit in here and there, scouring the rest, and this on the last record, and clicking on the funds, even though they haven't even made any permanent commitments. It's reprehensible, and hopefully, and I'll say it again. The above - mentioned senator will be history. I hope this will be the last time we face any money like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u88	A respectable president. I can share that basic message with others. A senator has that we must move to a different structure. I do not agree, however, that this is evidence that we have not changed anything. I refer to the fact that in 2017, we have set aside billions of dollars in reserve, about 7 billion if I remember correctly, which has only been partly new but would otherwise have received many of these matters here. Among the reasons why he has not been new is that we are trying to increase the transparency of what is being done and to assign the council to bring it here. Since then, it has also been more dangerous to do so because we have been present in a dresser interview with 17 partners of BHM since the fall of the year and have had to assume that the results of this discussion have been possible through recovery since September. We were also just today setting up the pay deposit for the public employees. There is something that we need to look into about using the reserve. I'll give you these examples. Then I also pointed at the big team on the bill. If we look at the big team, we need to ask ourselves a few questions. First, would we have anticipated this? You could say that with the trustees, I can totally agree with the men there. Is that not, though, in case it was underestimated, or should we have driven it in next year? I'm not sure. Second: Should we have taken steps to cut down our expenses? Let's ask them a question like that. With regard to the medicinal products involved in this matter. Was the requirement for the professional minister to stop drug delivery, to reduce drug delivery? If we don't, we're stuck with the cost here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u89	Madam President. It is true that if expenses are underestimated in the budget, we are expected to respond in some way, and some of them are exactly the same as spending on social security that it is quite obvious that it will not be easily cut down. If there is an increase in the number of sensibilities greater than expected, then simply a commitment to pay legal rights is required. The same is true of disability. I can totally understand the problem faced when the cost of medication is much higher than expected. I don't think any of us want to deny the people necessary medication. But that does not change it, and I reiterate my comments that this is exactly why the reserve is to be used first. When the European Commission emptys its reserve, a better plan may be made for the budget at any given time. It may be that the reserve is being searched for, that the reserve is not stored like a sauna until the last minute. Regarding the criteria in these last weeks and ahead in the months to come, e.g. With regard to collective labour agreements, certain prices for the overall year, including contractual increases, are expected. So this is all that has not yet been accomplished, and it should have been arranged for in financial terms, so surely this should not be an unexpected part of the journey. I repeat, I celebrate it very much, e.g. When paying off debt, especially as unfortunate a loan, faster than necessary, and probably feel that the council will take these cases for financial support. But I place a big question mark on many of the other things. I fear that here we are again watching that there are a number of things being done on the last record that would rightly have been a part of the transition to government budget by 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u90	A respectable president. If we were to take that way to say that the thing related to the purchases of the bonds was taken away, we would have about 16 billion in front of us. Then, if we were to say that it was not unnatural to withdraw what is intangible in the reserve, which was just thought for a similar matter and could enter a budget bill, we are now very close to 10 billion. If we look at this so that there are 4 billion of them in drugs and medical products and 2 billion in trustees, we've got the figure down to 4 billion, something like that. Of the 4 billion, there are then many reasons that obviously could not be prevented. I've been discussing social security with that. I think if you look at it this way, the releases aren't the ones you'll expect from the total capital that are under here. But I'm not going to go into a lot of trouble with men who argue that some of the issues in this bill do not give clear grounds for a financial proposal. Then I may refer specifically to transportation, but it is based on the decision of the previous government to take on further implementation during the year because of the situation created on the roads of tourists who were more than men in the world and beyond predictions. Then there are other events related to decisions that have been made over the year. I don't think it's a complete bill at all an example that there's a release on the budget, but perhaps it's a good idea if we've found the right rhythm on the cooperation of budgets and reserves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u91	Madam President. I think I can at least... agreeing with the highest degree. Secretary of finance that we have not found the rhythm of the use of reserves. Maybe there's a basic point. In the matter of public financial law, it is intended to provide the Commission with the maintenance of their budget management. Of course, we need to keep in mind that we have a pretty big business here. That's 800 billion bucks. Business. In the end, if we go through this like the highest. The secretary of finance, we can say we have 24 billion. If we take 8 billion aside, we will agree that this will be for financial purposes, with 16 billion left standing. In turn, there are 9 billion reserves, 7 billion left. Then you must ask yourself: " Is it too much for the executive authority to be able to concentrate on this percentage, if that is just less than a percent? Should we ask, for example? since we are past the reserve: Are we going to make a deal with farmers now, or are we going to keep it for years? We may have gone too far into the transport budget, should we not? You could continue to count that. Of course, there are a number of terms in the budget that are not entirely committed expenses but that can be postponed if other budgets are higher. Of course, it is the purpose of the law on public financial matters, just as a company very much needs to work its own business, a home to do in its home accounting, to resort to conservative measures when it is clear that there is a driving out in some other area. Of course, it's where we want to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u92	Madam President. I agree greatly with what was said in the case of the day. Víglundsson However, I took note of his case that he seemed willing to give more consideration to the increase in capital costs than in other joints, i.e. that it was somehow more justified because it was desirable. Then I would like to ask, in view of the requirement for public financial matters, that what is presented in budgets should be temporarily, unpredictable, and unavoidable. It may not have been inevitable, but it was desirable, as noted in the case of the two. Senator. Is that enough to justify this? Is this more desirable than e.g. to increase the cost of medicine or the correct road that has been discussed? I don't think it's more desirable than people getting medication and reducing road holes. I'd love to hear about it from what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer is yes, I make a clear distinction because this is paying off debt faster than expected. This will help us to extend our space in terms of growing expenses for the welfare system, which is highly predictable for us to continue growing. We need to be careful, too. Demographic development, the aging of the nation, etc, makes it clear that there will always be more and more demands on the social and health systems, and thus the costs will be increased. I think perfectly justified and, in fact, desirable that when an opportunity arises to pay off debt faster with a related growl into the future, it is a new opportunity. In this case in particular, it can be noted that this is a foreign debt of government primarily. The way we walk is good for us now to pay them up. They were right on very high interest rates, so they had our most expensive loans. So I think it is very normal when governments see the opportunity to pay off such debts and have the means to do so. Although there is an increase in expenses during the year, it is clear that this means a clear and complete payment in the years that follow. There is nothing but the advance payment of the interest under there. That is why I feel completely preconceivable and, in fact, desirable that this is done and the government is looking to the Senate's financial resources for permission of increased interest expenditures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u94	Madam President. I am a little surprised at this answer because in my mind the drugs would just be used to heal people faster than others. This could save us considerable health costs later. And if we were to fix the road, this could prevent some accident that would save us both in our health and elsewhere. Actually, we are here in question as to what constitutes desirable in philosophical discussions of inevitability. I think it's inevitable to fix the roads, but I don't think it's inevitable to start new federal debt, which is what has been done here for the purpose and way of lowering the debt. Buying these debts and paying them down is the best thing to do, as has been done to the extent allowed by the financial rights. We've had a significantly better result now than before. It is not obvious, though, that we would have had to go above 8.1 billion and a hundred thousand dollars. ... better. If we had less emphasis on buying debt and staying within it, that would not have been inevitable. I just don't get my priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u95	Madam President. I think something's wrong. A senator has misunderstood my priorities in the state's expenses. I do not describe these two items, increase the cost of pharmaceutical purchases, or repayment as some opposite choice. On the contrary. It's just a very simple situation, especially with regard to the payment of the first bond, the deposit that was paid up in the summer. Then there was funds in a government fund that puts them on considerably lower interest than the debt they owe to pay off. The gang position was ideal in order to pay it up. Then I feel that it is just plain and clear common sense and, in fact, highly desirable, also in an economic way, to use the time when so much and a strong influx is of currency into the country that a government fund uses it to speed up payment on its foreign debt. This increases the balance of the economy and makes sense and clear. The amount of money was real, it wasn't the problem. I quite agree to bring such fees into the budget, but it's not against the choice of other government funds, but it's just saying, "It's a good idea. Let's save time in the long run. Let's really lower our interest costs. Either way, we have this money on considerably lower interest rates on some bank account today. In my mind, I'm not paying up, at all, more important than, e.g. Weighing and buying. On the contrary, I say, the savings this leads to into the future increases our privacy in the road system or the improvement in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u96	Madam President. I'm not going to go deep into the bill to the budget, where other senators have done it pretty well. However, there are a few things I discussed with you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson just now related to the budget and the additional 8.1 billion. It is not necessarily necessary to go to that increase. One part of the published loan was bought, which was 877 billion. It's worth a million dollars, and it was added 31 million. U.S. dollar following October. Then there are, if I don't miscalculate, about 91 million. K. U.S. dollar to or from, which are the posts of the debt. I would normally have felt that only a little less money had gone to this purchase so that we stayed within the framework of public finances. Although reducing interest costs are desirable - and I agree perfectly with that. paritaprevir For the longer term improvement of the state's status, Mr. Grafstein, Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, it is not authorized within the framework of public finances. Perhaps we could add a law on public financial matters to the word 'editable'; if anything is considered sufficiently desirable, let us authorize it on budgets. However, this raises another question to me that I would be interested in answering from the highest point of view. Financial and economic ministers. In this subsidies, and then with a new loan of 500 million. The euro taken at the beginning of December, which is about 66.6 billion dollars, is actually reducing the interest rate of the state's budget considerably, which is just great. But in a similar way, it actually raises some of the debt of a state fund. This is completely in line with what I have encouraged for a long time, but the emphasis seems more likely to have been on paying down my debt no matter what interest it would bring. I'd like to wonder if there's any evidence that now that it's lowering the interest rate of the state funds might become the main thing, which is just great, and I'd just celebrate, or whether it's some other approach that I don't quite figure out with these 500 million. Euro. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Simon's son, said that to pay off foreign debts, this was a very convenient time to go. Today, however, the situation is particularly disturbing to establish a new foreign debt. So it is interesting to know why it was decided to borrow in euros rather than simply give out a credit note in Icelandic dollars, which would likely have been more successful because we are trapped in a high - interest policy here. This, however, would have been unmistakably an advantage for us not to make a success of it. All of this goes on for a little bit because we're looking ahead in the financial bill that we're going to have a lot of changes in the federal debt. I very closely monitor their development on the beautiful lanal web. These changes aren't exactly what I expected. I tend to find it difficult to understand how it ends to 8.1 billion above what was expected in budgets while the interest rate for the state is down by 4.079 billion. I can imagine how this works, but it would be good to hear how it goes and how it's put together. Finally, I would like to mention one thing that was presented in a case. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafurs, Ólafur of Ágústsson, earlier on the diagnosis. There has now been quite a reason to complain about the quality of the analysis models on both expenses and income and the general economy. We actually only have one diagnostic model for the entire economy. It does not take into account the existence of state funds and government expenditures, which are a drawback when talking about so much of the overall economy, that changes there are not properly reflected in the analysis model. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the use of the financial department's work to produce better models that will be generally available to us members of the council and even the public, thereby even having a slightly better predictor than the existing model. Realistically, it is difficult to predict expenses, and it is difficult to predict the future. It's almost impossible. By having enough perfect models, we can at least try to get closer to reality a little better, hopefully with more prophetic value, and even at some point end of a year, where no additional bill needs to be introduced, which may be a fantasy on my part. But we'll see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u97	A respectable president. Just a little bit more on the loans. We've issued a bond party for dollars. In the years that followed, those holding those letters were entitled to receive interest payments. In fact, by offering to buy out the letters, we need to pay the interest that had fallen in the years that followed, resulting in this massive payment in 2107. The letters do not have a special account. Rather, they are actually bought in one piece. I don't know if things are going that are particularly favorable or not in order to pay off foreign debts, but it's true what happened. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Wormund's Víglundsson, there's been a considerable amount of currency, so the currency value has been fine. In other words, we are stressing two things because it was asked about it. On the one hand, whether we might be putting more emphasis on lowering our interest than on fixing our debt. I think we're focusing on both. We watch the debt goal which is to keep the debt of state funds below 30%, i.e. Government, state and rural debt. We explain in financial policy how we see the ratios continue to decrease by 30% and toward 20%. It's going to grow, that's right. That is an enormous advantage. However, the purpose of this publication is not merely to save interest and pay off debts but to show that the land has confidence. We have marketing access. We'll clear the way for other major members of the country to become a private market into the market in good terms. We're taking loans that we can use to support our country's currency reserves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u98	Madam President. Thank you very much. This is the financial and economic secretary. This explains most of the things I wanted to know, and it's especially interesting that the state is really snooping, with President's permission, that bad sleigh, back home that we have credit that's very good. However, because of priorities, it is a question of whether to weigh, reduce interest costs, or reduce debt. The emphasis on both is all right, I can quite agree with that, but whether would weigh the highest. A minister if it were to make a choice between them, and would they really be as good or as bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u99	A respectable president. I just think it's so closely related. The more you owe, the more you pay. This is generally the standard for markets that are at any given time, but it is possible for people to reduce their interest burden by subsiding. We are, in fact, doing so with foreign loans. In our foreign loans, we do not focus on the decrease in debt. We put emphasis on a higher interest rate. That's what the euro is about. In the dollar loan, however, we withdraw from foreign debt. We have access to things that simply relate to the amount of currency we need to build up. How much money should the State owe to build such a faraway place? It would be nice to take a special discussion about all of this. You can, for example. Ask yourself, " How would the phone call that occurred at the time and was published not long ago, between then Prime Minister and U.S. bank manager, have gone if at the Federal Bank had been the current fund? ' What choice might we have made if men at that time had played some 600 billion in an effort to save the banks? You see, it is not necessarily wise to build an infinite amount of currency save unless it is much clearer to what would be possible for it to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u100	Madam President. I appreciate those comments. The last one that came up in the case of the highest. In fact, a minister is in a much deeper discussion of the nature of currency and its purpose. I'd be interested to try to have that conversation sometime, perhaps in special discussions or such, because the purpose of a major remuneration reserve can be asked entirely, and most important, in view of the fact that it was heard not many months ago in the Federal Bank that the emphasis on building the major currency reserve was being reduced. This kind of raises a lot of new questions to me, but thank you very much. Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-6.u101	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the law of rights and duties of the employees of the state. With the bill gone from the previous pay-employment programme, where a minister was assigned to determine the basic-employment and subsections of the heads of the states as well as the basis for the payment of additional pay, and instead to be assigned to the Minister or Special Work Unit on the responsibility of finance and economic ministers to establish a fixed pay contract for the day-to-day work in accordance with the basic work of the relevant head, to the other remuneration, to the profession, to determine the basis of additional remuneration and to the decision of other remuneration. The changes under the bill are due to opinions that have been developed in connection with the interaction of the head of the remuneration scale and the decision of retirement to those who use the so-called post-election principle in the B-C Penitentiary Fund of the head of the state. Remuneration according to this rule is determined by the fixed pay for a day's work that is paid for the job and therefore it is important to distinguish between pay decisions made by directors in terms of pay per day's work and on other conditions. Undivided, this group's pension would rise by over 38 million. K. a month and an increase in the estimates of B-in Penitentiary bonds of the Pension Fund by 2,000 million. K. By the end of 2016. This increase would also result in a 0.27% increase in the index of the day wage for public employees. A overall impact on the increase in the tragic pension debt of B-in the State Pension Fund on prices at the end of 2016 is estimated to be 4.7 billion. or, of course, 0.84% of the traumatized pension bonds in the fund. To cope with this and prevent increased pension debt, it is therefore necessary to re-evaluate 39. a Act on the rights and duties of the government, and now on the basis of, in a manner comparable to that of a dresser's law, that the decision of the head of the Board of Directors to determine what is considered to be a fixed day's wage and what is other's salary. You should focus on the above changes to 39th. a in the laws on the rights and duties of the government do not impair the rights of those who take their pension under the following rules but ensure that they remained the right they had when the advice of men determined their salary. As a result, the bill does not carry additional expenses for the state's funds. This can be added to the fact that this case, such as Article 39. a that has been discussed here is of all origin in the change in the advice of manure that we decided at the Council of the Council for months ago, in which these groups were taken under the advice of the decision. We fixed them in law how to determine their future rights, their purchases, and their terms. So now it's found that in the implementation of the legal profession, people are going to see that the law on this subject, like we handled it from here, is not a good name for the successor of the State Penthouse Fund in Ward B. This is the result of a change in the law of man - made schemes. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. by the end of this.
