ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 3.m. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So it is requested that Óli Halldórsson be held at the council today, a third understudy on the list of the left movings of a new green bid in the district. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the government has assembled and issued a bill for Óli Halldórsson. At the same time, the board of directors and monitoring committees have been called to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u2	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A board of directors and patrols has come together to review Óli Halldórsson's campaign from the state government. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make a comment to the ballot letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u4	Borist has a letter from the 7th. That's the north side. "The Einar son of Brynjólfsson, and the third. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, "that they will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So today, the 1st deputy of Pirata's Northeast standard art, Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir, and the 3rd Apostle on the left of the movement is an offer in the northeastern district, Óli Halldórsson. Their letters have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u5	Guðrún Ágústa Þórdísardóttir and Óli Halldórsson have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u6	Borist has a letter from 1st. Smoke. N., Guðlaugur's name was Thor Þór Þórðarson, 1st. That's the north side. "Kristján Þór the son of Júlíusson, and 2nd. We're out of here. "Very Bryndís, my daughter Haraldsdóttir, that they won't be able to attend a meeting in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly for the 1st President of the National Socialist Party in Reykjavík, Albert Guðmundsson, 1st, United States Department of Independence, Elísabet, Halldórsdóttir, and 1st. Albert Guðmundsson, Sveinsdóttir Sólnsdóttir, and Karen Halldórsdóttir Halldorsdótttir have previously sat at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u7	This morning the president has received the proposal of the Minister of Justice on the order of 15 judges of the National Court, as IV did. The provision of the law No. 50/2016, the courts. The President now referred the case to a discussion with the Commission and Control Committee, as per 5 mg. 45. g. Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u8	A respectable president. In agreement for the end of this weekend, hopefully captured, the affairs of the disabled and social services of the local community were to wait in the fall, thus having special priorities in the handling of the council. It is no secret that the results were quite disappointing to me, for I thought it was important that the matter be done on time, both for rural society and for state to adapt. But with this conclusion, I trusted that the formation of a meeting at a meeting in the fall could help to end the matter on time. It is of great importance that rural society can take steps to prepare the introduction of these important changes, as well as that of clients who enjoy this service, they are well aware of this. I trust a deal will be reached in the fall, that it will think and that it will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u9	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for coming up here and explaining his words in the media, which, of course, brought me and others back. In view of the fact that this is not a concluded agreement, members of Congress are surprised. The situation is simply that the perennial issue that is about to be completed was delayed in attendance, requiring more work. It was the common understanding of all presidents, all political parties sitting here at a meeting on Saturday, so it's not being negotiated off the board, it's facing the reality that the Council has to deal with legislation. That should be the best. Of course, a minister should be content and content, especially in view of the fact that all the presidents of all classes described their willingness to give this matter a special weight in the fall and to complete that work as quickly as possible. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u10	A respectable president. I do not know that anyone in this room is opposed to completing these assignments. But everyone wants to do it well. At Saturday's meeting of presidents, they agreed that these issues would require more and more attention during the summer, including the Memorial. in the Ministry, before they could be taken care of. It all stressed that they wanted to set things straight, all classes at the General Assembly. That's why I was completely caught up in the surprise of the Minister of News this morning and to all of us at that meeting. I now suggest, Madam President, when the government meets with the President that the entire government is informed as to what will be done in such a situation. I would have chosen that the Minister had apologized to us for saying that there had been some contracts that would have been prevented by the government. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, it takes a little more work, especially the other issue related to NPA, i.e. The law on community service, which is absolutely unworked, has not arrived for the council. The case simply came too late. But we will, of course, be careful, and hopefully the Ministry will be working for some clear and good so that these matters can be completed quickly and well in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u11	Madam President. I think it's the highest statement. A minister before you is an insignificant cat laundry. He comes in for an interview this morning and suggests that the government's opposition is breaking the way the government is running this case. [[Up front.]] The fact is, there is no conflict in a welfare committee that needs to be done better than that. Now would be the highest. A minister for more if he went out there, phoned the SpV and the newsroom for Stopr 2, and asked for an interview and corrected it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] He has put us in a position now that we need to defend ourselves, to blame ourselves. This is a cheap political Trix. I think the Minister must want to be a bigger man than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u12	President. The ultimate responsibility. Minister of the Lord of Víglundsson, for bringing the case in too late and for bringing in too many things too late. It should be noted that this minister put his extra effort on such a reward, which is really not ready but because it lacks payment on its effect. Yet it will go through here. There is no harm to people's lives because of the shoddyness of the minister's work. It is unlikely that the Minister would say this, despite the agreement and solidarity that were common to all who came here for the weekend, that we wanted to do this well, that it would be part of a declaration about the end of Congress that this is a top priority in the fall, because we wanted to do it well with those who need to take advantage of this service. I insist, if not all of this is going to get upset, to the top. This misunderstanding was corrected by a minister who apologized, both in the conference hall and in the media, and there he corrected it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u13	What's he doing putting people at risk?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u14	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the Minister for having a word with me about the important issues in the community. There are now some signs that the infrastructure is being constructed. Criticism has shown that there was a lack of a vision for a group of local governments and settlements, as well as a lack of a vision for the rest of the group. I'd like to make it a subject of the crucial progress taken in the last administration when the laws on community planning and application programmes were adopted. It is hard to see when tourists are streaming to the land that is never before to be private to the landscape. Therefore, it is happy that they no longer are, but these matters concern all of us. It is now conditioned that countries, rural societies, and the capital will work together to shape regional policy and strategy. That is a big change from what was before. The legislation establishes a new work format for the implementation of application plans and links based protocols and application programmes. I am convinced that this will contribute to more targeted regional action and even better results. V.E.G. President. I'd like to mention the positive actions the government initiated during the last term. It was action to balance farm conditions and house - to - house electricity costs. These measures are of great importance to the entire country and are of great importance to its territory. I rejoice, for now these matters have become reality and have continued to come to pass. It is good to know that Iceland's campaign is still in full light because it is actually a basis for building up and creating a realistic possibility for what has been called work without location. I am curious about whether this important assignment is not sure to be permanent. An example of a positive step taken in 2012 is that of the Agency taking the initiative to look for solutions to immediate problems because of the decline in employment and difficulties in recent years. In 2013, there was a trust in the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. The objective was included. to get their own opinions on the future possibilities of the home and to seek their solutions in cooperation with state, national, economic development, rural society, displaced populations, and others. Is that assignment being carried out? I am convinced that the law will contribute to more targeted regional action, but it is clear that sufficient funding is needed to be used for the seminary so that success will be achieved. Reports have reached the planned end of a school in the country and concern over the government of various institutions, which are very shocking. But I think Minister and I can agree that there are more ways of survival here on the southwest corner than there are in many parts of the country. During the last term, the then president of rural development, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, had a building agency look at how the tax system could be used to strengthen our country's settlements. Such an arrangement is known in Norway and Sweden, and there are various possible exports in this regard. The suggestion to use the tax system was inferred to a new based program that, as far as I can get next, so good as ready in January. So I ask: When is there a new strategy to the council, and what is the minister's thinking to use the tax system to strengthen the scattered country's settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and discussion about it. This is a very important thing. On December 20, the so - called marine road and agricultural minister proposed a resolution to a decision-making strategy for a policy-making programme for 2014◯2017. Was she approved on May 12th, 2014. Consuming was accompanied by action in 43 joints to achieve the primary objectives of the programme. The action of the current groundwork is now being carried out, which will run its course at the end of the year. In March 2016, the Agency was authorized to work on the next building program for 2018-2024. The plan is carried out by a new layer of work adopted by law No. 69/2015, on base plan and application programmes. A new method of action meant that more people would be responsible for urban development. There is still a building plan for the Ministers of the Organization, but now in cooperation with the Council's Management Board's Management Board on Regional Affairs. The Based programme will enter the work field of many recruitments, and the introduction of all recruitments has been ensured right away in the underdeveloped stages of the programme. As a result of the development of rural development programmes, rural, regional, and other markets are also consulted on demand. The main objective of the programme is now established and aims to balance the opportunities of all the people of the country for employment and services, to balance vitality, and to promote sustainable development of rural areas across the country. Special attention should be given to areas with long-term decrease in population weight, unemployment, and monotonous employment. Here, the emphasis is being made on older policy plans and to ensure that the most extreme weight is on the best of the population. The capital area was also added to the geographic impact field, which is an important link between development and the competitiveness of the country. Thus, a structure plan takes over to the whole country. Protocols and based programmes are linked to the fact that application programmes should continue to take into account the main objectives of based programmes and include the same value period as the basis. You're right. A senator spoke up here, and it is very important that we ever have a place in the country. I think there are three things that stand out there. First, I'd like to say that I don't agree with it. A senator that does not guarantee settlements. An increase in rurality was made this year by 25%, and in a national budget, this contribution is being maintained. So there has been considerable increased emphasis on this aspect of the matter. Then we need to mention Iceland's light - related work, which is a project that has been started during the last term that will, of course, be a problem. A senator said, "change the habitat conditions in many parts of the country. " It is the goal of completing it in 2020, 2021. By then nearly every home in Iceland will be connected to a fiber - optic fiber. Of course, it is not likely in such a small country. I was sitting this morning with the Norwegian politicians, including Dana, who are a little bigger than our Southern District, with less than 6 million living in it. They're not close to us in this. We'll be in the first place in the world on this matter. This is extremely important. The other opportunities to transport in different areas are like being able to spread electricity across these regions, as I have said before, the sector that has contributed to the stability of this country in recent decades and still not do so again in the same way in the future. New technologies and changes in farming are responsible for this. So we need to look for new opportunities in the country, practical instruments. It clearly shows that energy is everything. It does not sit at the same level when it comes to possible access to energy. While no one is talking about its being used for some great industry in these places, it is fundamental to be able to offer more varied opportunities, to have access to our green energy. A lot of things go out there together, like, e.g. The production of the energy and the distribution network and its structure. Sadly, though, these factors have been in way too difficult for us, too much conflict, and in recent years, we have not made much progress in this regard. I think the basics for the country's settlement, if we're going to be able to shape a future, that this will improve the acutely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u16	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. The minister here brings up the energy issues in his speech. I'm particularly worried about that group of people, and I'm just calling energy security. It has been observed in recent discussions that large areas of the country spend hours with energy. This is happening repeatedly. This is a lot of concern and damage to our professional life and to our communities. Power cleaning is way too short, and there's a hell of a lot of work to do. As time is short, I would like to mention this and point out the information about the financial program we've been discussing in the last few days by the European Union. It shows that the rural community is critical of the long - term contributions to the parish plan, not to be found in a financial program, which is a large issue of the government, which everything else is built on for the next five years. I'm gonna do a hell of a comment. There's something important based on research, violations built, and so on. [[The president calls.]] Finally: The government is making wealth for transport, which is certainly one of the largest urbanities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u17	Madam President. I thank the advisor for the need for discussion and Minister for the answers. You see, we need to consider making plans to communicate. Based schedule required, e.g. to mix up with a transport plan. She won't. The fiber - optic industry, which was not meant to happen according to its original programmes, is largely related to the local community itself, and it acknowledged the highest level. A minister in effect, in which the distribution was carried out as originally indicated. In the case of broken - down areas, transport is important, as if it is not acceptable, temporary activities can be avoided. Everything needs to talk, and that's not the case. An definition of basic services is what we must face as a convocation and nation. If we don't know and can't determine what any community, each region should have a basic service, we can't go anywhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u18	Madam President. Based schedule must not be empty document. I've felt that way over the years. It is a beautiful promise, and when it comes to bringing it all down, it always lacks money to follow it. All classes have provided a highly ambitious regional policy, but we are far behind in balance with agricultural conditions in the country. Budget plan does not reflect the will of the world. The minister here speaks of the government's going to step in and make scrambling in settlements, far from here. There's a lot of money missing into all the infrastructure around the country. The number of broken homes is always increasing. Instead of preventing the fracture prevention, there is always someone left behind that often arrives late and often. If we're going to mean something with an application plan and a ground plan, we've got to show it for real. And a financial program that matters much to the next five years must show that what they say is something to be harmed by what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u19	A respectable president. First, thank you for this important question. And then I'm gonna go with a what. Magnúsdóttir It's not that much of what we say in this chair and how we punch ourselves on the chest if it doesn't follow. Head's at the top. Minister is light. It will appear in a national budget until the age of five. Because it's the highest. A minister introduced energy issues, and I just want to emphasize their importance. The situation is that, by law, no party should ensure delivery security when it comes to public markets. It is upon the shoulders of a number of people to ensure delivery security when it comes to dealing with big users and others, but there is no person responsible for ensuring national energy to the public. Clearly, these matters need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u20	Madam President. One of the most important things in urban development and urbanity is, of course, a vigorous agriculture. Now we know that there has been a clot in the bottle, i.e. A bottleneck and a cap, we can say, when it comes to the kingdom's earth. It has been very difficult to get some intelligent policy for sales or rents, and it has prevented soiling an apartment that should be in an apartment but has gone to waste or land that may be suitable for young people who are beginning to live. For example, in Thomson's Swamp, it's very prominent. The other one I'd like to mention is health care. It is funded in many parts of the country simply because the pressures of tourism have become so great that people around the country are in trouble often and often, also in hospital transport. This may not be the main point, but these are factors that are of vital importance to the development of the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u21	A respectable president. As I look at the development plan and transport plan and other such programmes that we treat at the council, I always look to see if the results will be sustainable. I would be interested in hearing Ministers' opinions on how a structured plan works that the plans and plans that are presented will lead to our sustainable development in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u22	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister and the same have shared in this discussion. This is really an urgent matter to all of us. That is why I hope for the changed procedure that has been presented here by multidisciplinary work, in the contrary to the ministry, and so forth. It's got to be all our work. We have to put a pair of live-of-the-art glasses in each case, that's what I think is extremely important. Hv. A number of factors were made up by members of the Parliament. The basic reason we can talk about equality to the home is that everyone has access to fiber optics and connections all over the country. For years, we've been talking about jobs without a location, it's not realistic, it's normal to talk about it, we can't say it until we get it right. We live in a big country, it's expensive, but we really need to emphasize it. I'm glad it's done. We'll return to energy transport, as some have mentioned. It is a frightening situation in which many rural societies are in, that small and medium-sized enterprises cannot be expanded because of the lack of energy. You can't put a dry cleaning on Akureyri because there's no energy left. This is another matter that all of us need to work on and correct. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's abοut the Gοsοns. We producers have a plan to use them, on the state farms. This is an enormous issue in many communities, where every habitat is important and every planet on which it resides. I hope we can keep working. But we're living in a changed society, and we need, like, a bad one. A senator came in earlier, having definitions of the basic needs of society more clearly. I think that's a job for all of us to work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u23	A respectable president. Just to reiterate that, there's an increase in urbanity of less than 400 million between the years, more than 50 million in addition to what was in the last year's Fragile settlements. People are getting a lot more involved in what they have to do and what they're not doing. Governments are said to be easy when it comes to transportation. This year's transport is 5.8 billion more. That's not enough, because we're looking at other avenues that we might take on, since this is an important case, especially for the national community, but as well as in the most accidental areas. There's talk of areas that don't have electricity. It may not be the least of the left greens that make it important to promote the network of electricity and that electronic energy systems can be delivered to those living in places that today cannot increase the variety of employment and valuables, since it is not electrical energy to have to build up even the small industry in those places as compared to the industry. They are the same people, a respected president, who prevented them during the terms of their reign that they would continue in that field. I warned about this in my talk about seven years ago. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir took the initiative to put a rock in the street of a frame plan and a sensible use of our energy resources that would be the situation today. [[Up front.]] This is the result. I warned that at that time, and we are experiencing the exact same situation. And it's also not okay for us as a nation that it hasn't been for nine years that you can put a line in the main transport system of electricity in Iceland. A land net has not been able to cross into the main electrical transport system because of endless charges. You see, we have to put words together and apply them, realize that we cannot have legislation in this way and that we cannot agree that what is called can be done. It is very important that we take a close look at this. [[The president calls.]] I can tell at the end that it's not true what happened to one member of the left green before that it was the rural community that was laying on the lines of light, but it's a cooperation project, and it's about 2.5 billion for the state that's going on the job against 2 billion from the rural community. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Today, the truth is called forth to be the most angry at these matters at times. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u24	A respectable president. Laws and regulations need to be in tune with time. All the rules and regulations that the General Assembly has approved must preferably be so that we would accept them today. The amount of waste material should be peeled out. Decisions that interfere with normal progress should be changed. I'll ask you a question to the highest level. Secretary of transportation. I'm convinced that current law and rules about taxis are not fully timed. The EFTA study of 22 February 2000, where taxi legislation is criticized by Norwegian legislation, is something we should read well, for the Norwegian legislation resembles this. The monitoring agency had three plans to set; the number of job secrets, the services of the employers, and the demand for membership in a cab station. First, although the Norwegian government did not demonstrate enough that the number of job restrictions needed to be over its head would be kept in place, it is stated in the Icelandic Regulation that the Department of Transport should go over and review the number of jobs in each area and take action if there is a significant imbalance between demand and supply. In fact, I'm on the verge that free market, not governments, is the best way to achieve such a significant balance. Second, the permit team was told differences in recruitment, where new permits is released only under special circumstances. In particular, this arrangement can discriminate against foreign citizens. This is contrary to the European Union and the European Economic Areas' basic provisions for free transport and services. Third and last, the requirement for membership in a cab station was criticized. For her, there have been many arguments, first of all, the need for more convenience and then the safety of users, that it is good to be able to call one number. Today, those who offer up a more recent cab service around the world allow users to have only one smartphone program, not even a phone number. However, there is often evidence that the safety of passengers and drivers is high. Then I'd like to point out that if large cities with many million people allow services based on shared economy, the peacefulest country in the world should not despair. The survival of a cab market would have so much more than increasing the number of cabs in the streets; transportation would improve, waiting for a shuttle on the weekends to be wiped out; cars could be more useful. We should respond to freedom with joy, not with suspicion. We do well to ask ourselves, " If we were to write these laws today, would we reach this conclusion that we have? ' Of course, I realize that Iceland is not Norway, but the regulations under which the Commission is critical are also found in Iceland in a very similar form. So I ask the highest. A secretary of transportation, whether or not he intends to respond to the opinion that must be considered as a payoff for the Icelandic cab drive as well as the Norwegian.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u25	A respectable president. That is a very different environment in which we live today, and we live, but it was when these laws were given at the time. Notes have been made, as noted from the EFTA Institute of Monitoring, on Norwegian cab - driving legislation, and on the number of restrictions there. We are, for example, in a comparable environment, as do Norwegians and, in fact, other northern nations. EFTA has taken its own initiative to have a view of the laws and regulations that apply to rent driving in this country and the Ministry has had a letter relationship with the Agency in connection with that opinion. It is premature in itself to claim that at this point the result of this view will have and will be affected by the reaction it will bring to the government of the United States. ESA made three comments primarily to the Norwegian taxi law. First, it considered nonsurrection limits to the predetermined number of job permits for taxi driving. Second, the Agency considered non-surpassing restrictions to be that the terms of distribution allow are not predictable, objective and free of discrimination. In that country, distribution allows for priority rules based on professional experience and government judgment when priority rules fail. Third, the agency made a comment on the obligation of the permit workers to pay off a rental car station. I know Danir and Finns have begun to make preparations for the changes in their routine of automobiles, but the national systems look quite similar, as I said before, to our system here in Iceland. I think it's clear in changing circumstances that we're going to have to reconsider these rules in the future, but there are certain factors that we have to have in my opinion. Of course, we need to ensure that we have a certain diversity of business, to make sure that our services are available, and to make sure that they are available. We also need to keep in mind the security of passengers. I think it is extremely important to be guided by modified legislation that we ensure the safety of a passenger, a measure of security in the present system. We've seen something like that. changes in the environment in this country. That even appeared to us. on the facebook, which is a page I can't remember, which is called Skutlars or something like that. This service is being offered and, in fact, many other services are being made along the way. I don't think this is a suitable arrangement. It's completely unsupervised. There is a business that we generally consider to be illegal. This, however, is a sign of a change of time. As governments, we must have to revise the rules accordingly, see what adjustments we can make with the points in my mind that I came in earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u26	Madam President. My comments focus on the short time I have, that one of the greatest challenges by the government to adapt to the systems and legislation of a world in which technology progresses is exactly what is going to happen is to keep up with the big changes that are going on the market. ... withthetechnology. That is a challenge. Cabby service is an example of a market that has changed dramatically. Then there is the opportunity to consider that such questions, such as whether they need a permit or something else. The other point I wanted to come is whether there is any difference between the services now known in many parts of the world, Uber services, where communication between the sellers of service and buyers is directly involved, and to form an Airbnb mine. It's exactly the same thing. When you consider the safety of a passenger, you can have general conditions, such as that a vehicle is safe, that a driver has a driver's license, but otherwise the market will always ensure that the buyer's needs are applied. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much the answers as well. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's tea for his remark. I do, as I said in my speech, fully aware that Iceland is not Norway, and we must follow our own ways in this and follow that process. It is interesting to hear that there is some communication between the Icelandic government and the EFTA monitoring agency. It will be fascinating to see where it leads us, but undeniably, we have perfect freedom to act in a more liberal way if we choose to go that way. There have been some technical solutions that have advanced worldwide. Uber is one of these companies, Living is different, and we may not necessarily have to focus on an individual example or individual enterprise or seeing them in some unoriginal glory glow. It is simply a public service that takes advantage of technology and a potential for business connection, a business relationship between individuals who can provide a specific service, and an exceptional need for it. We can do something free, or we can take some smaller steps. We can, for example. Disable mass limitation and help slightly without reducing existing legal conditions. Perhaps it would be nice to hear a little of what the Minister himself had in that regard, what ideas he would have on how these legislation would look if we wanted, or needed, to respond to this call both the same time and the EFTA monitoring agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u28	A respectable president. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir Pawel Einarsson's Bartoszek is this great challenge and, in fact, is like that. I think it's a reasonable approach that we make a good impression, even taking smaller steps to keep it from changing times. I completely agree that we can't continue in a completely unchanged environment for a long time. I think it's right that we try. There was a particular comparison, e.g. Uber-leaf truck service and Airbnb. We have become quite familiar with the homemaking/Airbnb environment. Last year, just a year ago, the General Council appointed legislation to try to control that activity, because it is necessary to control it, to have some perspective on the current activities, and to ensure that the work is under control. The rights of those who choose to stay in such places. One of our requirements was that those who intend to practice this business have to apply for permission. It's relatively simple. They will then have all the marketing of their products, in their room space, to publish the license number in advertisements of the Airbnb. It hasn't worked out. It was supposed to be happening for the last year. They said: "Well, Airbnbb forbids publishing the license numbers, they refuse to publish this licence number in their advertisements. " It is my opinion that those who practice such activities are forbidden to advertise on Airbnb. This is an example of how we need to get our hands on this and how they play it all together. We actually tried and worked hard at it during the last assembly trying to get over this, to be very positive about this development of the market, but it hasn't worked out better than it really is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u29	Madam President. My request to the highest. Marine and agricultural administrators are beginning to focus on increasing biodiversity in the Icelandic food industry, which would benefit both consumers and farmers. There are many parishes in Icelandic agriculture, opportunities available to strengthen activities in the scattered areas of the country. It can be through any innovation, the development of new products, the operation of various services in connection with the growth of tourists, and so it is a worthwhile growth, an increase in worth in the chain by further production, or the so - called homework and sales directly from farms. In recent years, if not decades, the number of slaughterhouses has declined greatly in this country. Following this, it has even been There is this debate about the position that living livestock is being moved today about a very long distance to the nearest resort, long distances in some estimates. Likewise today, there is a problem related to the ability of these slaughterhouses to meet the demand and develop products normally. An example from abroad is known to have responded to developments similar to those here, such as the management of mobile slaughterhouses. In the North, where I have seen examples, including In Norway, they have established two types of slaughterhouses, i.e. Homes that are slaughtered only for domestic markets and then for home slaughterhouses, which are shown and met by EU standards. Of course, here, food security, traceability, and the responsibility of the manufacturer must always be considered to meet the requirements for the structure and method of loyalty. This is no magic solution for farmers who want a bigger share in the chain of value. They will still be able to resist competition for prices, quality, diversity, demand of consumers, etc. However, it is the role of the government in the history of ensuring the correct setting of the law, a setting that today may be too complicated, too much writing, and a burdensome requirement. So I'm going to direct questions to a three - team minister to see if he sees in this opportunity to clear up these rules and what can be done during the election period to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u30	Madam President. In effect, I share the views presented in a talk. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson earlier, and he will do his best to answer the three questions he raised to me in the less than five minutes I have. Of course, it is important if we Icelanders are able to boast a great variety of things when it comes to food production. I am convinced that in the recent years, agrienvironment schemes are high. It is important for us that we have direct access to fresh materials. The transport routes are here in Iceland very short, in fact, leaving a small waste track, which is important. In recent years, the pattern of consumption has changed substantially, and consumers are more demanding and demanding. At the same time, this trend has increased the desire to work and manufacture products to sell to consumers directly. I think this is a lot of joy. Can be used in this relationship including points point to the organization directly from a farm where many manufacturers offer their products. Last week I went through the Southland where I met farmers who were introducing their production directly from a farm. It was good to find this drive, imagination, and innovation, which is seen in many farmers in many parts of the country. It is something that governments must think of trying to support, not under burdensome regulations, but rather openly. Of course, speaking of the South, it can also be said that these large ones, such as the SS, are among the largest employer in the South, the employer is also considering how to improve the development of his products and come forward better to meet consumers. But the food legislation here was introduced as part of the EEA Convention and became fully valid in November 2011. Some flexibility is expected there in many of the traditional productions and smaller companies. Then there are three regulations we know that will turn. that food security and touch the consumer we should keep in mind, but it allows a measure of time for a number of small productions and direct delivery. About that question why. A senator's decision not only for his own use in farms but also for sale that product protection and security are in place, has been a long time in Iceland, which has been the case for centuries when farmers have slaughtered their own livestock for themselves. Of course, this is known elsewhere. This is allowed, and a farmer is responsible for what he eats himself, and he is aware of the circumstances, the health of the affected cattle, etc. Food regulations specifically tell us that they do not take up such homework. The food protocols I came in only in the mountains, including those in the past. about slaughter and slaughterhouse in a very thorough manner. The number of slaughter houses in Iceland has decreased, and the same trend has taken place mostly throughout Europe. I'm impressed with what's going on in Norway. There is something we should consider, in fact, regarding other products that we can discuss later, such as sales for e.g. alcohol that can be sold in farms with only more rules than Iceland, something we should check on at least later. There is nothing today that forbids anyone to set up a slaughterhouse, whether it is small at home in a town or in a large industrial house. We'll see this in inquiry over the past few years, but most of us have been able to do more of our own products after they've been slaughtered in one of the bigger slaughterhouses. Speaking of the SS, it's obvious that they have a good partnership with farmers in their own environment, be it, be it, cattle or sheep farmers. There is a number of developments there. Just so that the big film is drawn on my side, I see that there's not much time left and I can't answer all the questions, I'd like to say that we should make farmers, especially the small towns, so that we can sell our own meat. We are to provide farmers with as much space as possible to shape products from their own farms. It's a trend in that direction. Of course, it is their responsibility to ensure food security, traceability, information to consumers, proof of health, etc. But we're supposed to do whatever we can to support farmers so that they can make as much of their wholesome products as they are so wonderful, and all Icelanders should be with them every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u31	A respectable president. I have here and where, including. in books, a warning about a reduction in food production in Iceland that has been around for many years. I really want to clear up more climates in this regard than has been reported in the case of men, to reduce transport in the country, and even to import in part. I think the climate has become the matter of thinking about it. Animal protection has been identified. The animals in Iceland are not badly treated, but I think they can be treated better by shortening transport routes, including To a slaughterhouse. Obviously, this case has a lot of work to do in communities, as you can see. in an SQW, and especially when it comes to tourism, for tourists are looking for goods from the region. I believe public members need to do this on a greater scale, assist in creating products or slaughtering through market plans or development institutions, and most notably through increased innovation. [[The president calls.]] It's where public members come in strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u32	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the advocate of this need and good discussion and agree with the members of the council who have mentioned the transfer of livestock, which has indeed increased. The number of slaughterhouses that cannot be considered positive is high and long. But men are full of ideas and powers in the countryside. Many are trying to get more work done at home. But I can't quite agree with a minister that there would be a chance of offering more alcohol, such as, a country with its thigh is quite known in some towns, but I'm not going to recommend it. The rules are way too complicated. It's all too twisted for people to go in. We know the quality products we have available all over the country, and we need to make sure that we simplify them all and help people to produce more at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u33	A respectable president. A country with its thighs, I hadn't thought of it, but it's interesting. I want to thank you for this discussion. She's really good. The red thread, which we all agree on, is primarily food security and purity and the quality of the production that we have here. We already have a very cool farm, I'm calling the World Peace and Eres, and other habitats that are doing very cool things about food development and marketing. The opportunity is there. I like that a minister brings up the fact that we should rather reduce burdensome rules, look at things more open. That's very good, I'm glad to hear that, but naturally, given that the surveillance is very good, as the proverb mentioned in his speech. I'd like to hear from a minister later on about what the perfunctory said about the skilled slaughterhouses, whether or not something is being arranged in the Ministry policy, because there are clearly opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u34	A respectable president. There's some interesting comments here. I'd like to briefly refer to the newly developed administrative office, which states that there is a need for support for the development of government affairs. However, it also says that the state's involvement in such reform and development projects is about a number of random and fragile trends, that there is no overall policy, including, and encourages a state reexamination to pooled policy development. This request sounds ironic to me as it has just been prepared to make new preparations. This case sounds like a lot like the big milk language. There are exactly the same logic behind this matter as the production of milk and distribution. I think we should consider just how these matters work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u35	Madam President. Thank you for the discussion. I have to agree with that, I think we need to look after the quality. They and their safety are always the things that need to be on the tip. Right from the farm, we've been able to frame ourselves into some particular rule bookwork, and we've done very well. The country has increased dramatically as many as a farmer sells from farms to farms for that. Of course, this needs to be easier to develop and strengthen farmers. Sadly, the long, extensive transport of animals in many parts of the country can be taken to heart. But we also need to pay attention to the surveillance program. It would likely be in the hands of a health care provider. We're always moving jobs in there, but at least we'll have to move with the money. to think it's done. Above all, it turns to strengthening and supporting farmers. It can be the highest. A minister made with a good domestic agreement and by cutting off the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u36	Mr. President. We know that sheep make a great contribution. Sheep farmers have been under attack, and I believe that it really needs to be considered to be some way in which they try to increase the value of sheep herding in particular. The opportunity is there. I believe farmers are the most secret farmers are in these waters. They'd have to work with them and listen to what opportunities they'll see. I think it's an opportunity we need to look at to strengthen especially the sheep's flocks in peripheral areas where there are opportunities to increase the value at home and reduce the cost of cross-country service. It was named farms, such as Erps found and World Peace, that are exemplary. I think there are opportunities that governments need to consider and cooperate with farmers in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u37	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers are eager to know the answers and rejoice as they show the willingness to do better in these matters. I can also hear you here in comments from other times' sake. Councilmen broad harmony, broad transpirian support that we take steps this way, provided we keep in mind the views that are here, and I introduced in my case a food security, the responsibility of the manufacturer, and the traceability of a product so that there is always good and wholesome products. Here was a serious matter that turned toward an expensive road trip. These long migrations of national corners must be a reason for us to examine with great force whether or not such a system can be established, a straddled organization designed to form slaughters, at least one factor, as well as the environment, to limit the environ ment in these ways. The key point is that this is not merely about livestock, especially that sheep farms that are truly important and urgent in these areas, but about all the opportunities found in the scattered areas of the country, which have many products, whether in vegetable culture or in carnivorous development. You're absolutely right. A minister entered, of course, there are many opportunities to produce various types of alcohol, beer production in the district, or other forms of alcohol production that can be provided. [[The president calls.]] I'm celebrating this discussion and thank you very much. The minister's answers. I strongly encourage her in this work during the election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u38	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. A senator and a captain that it is a pleasure to find this agreement at the General Assembly about promoting greater freedom and opportunities for farmers, whether to come to home bars or to other products. Men had the secret of selling the lamb to countries, but it did so that Norwegians, perhaps the most alcohol - oriented Puritans, went on to promote the production of the Hardger animals, all of whom know something about the natural world of Norway. It is an excellent wine produced there, 10◯12%, which has enabled farmers in recent years with new laws to increase farm products. This has led to an increase in the rise in the sale of other products from the farm. I can take care of myself, for example. The krypberry and blueberry wine farmers appear here. We are to be more open to opportunities that may include production. I'd also like to agree, though I wasn't the biggest fan of the livestock contract, that there's still a fixed chance on the livestock deal, and then we'll take advantage of it. There's a lot of opportunities hidden in the livestock contracts, including to promote innovation of all kinds of sheep farms, milk production, gardening, etc. I have hoped that the review committee would take a very close look. I'd also like to point out that we have a special project that was dejected, called Iceland's Maturo. This project is designed to increase the general awareness of Icelandic food culture, Icelandic food, and contribute to every innovation in food production and market. The project is five years old and goes into it with a lot of money. I can especially see that interested people who sell their homes directly can use them in one way or another and participate in that work in the years ahead. I think it's important for people to take advantage of that opportunity. I would like to emphasize that governments are not supposed to be in the way of evolution. We are to take care of food safety, traceability, and the manufacturer's responsibility. [[The president calls.]] We are to do everything within our power during this ideal period in order to contribute to the opportunity of a peasant to a new creation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u39	President. At the Council of 145 C.E., a change in general penal law was discussed with subsequent changes, including European Parliament's agreement on prevention and the fighting against violence against women and domestic violence In a committee program with a change of motion, which all members of the committee saw to the hearing of the issue on March 8, 2016, it was specifically noted that there was a reason for discussing a so - called environmental issue, which was mentioned in the committee's opinion that such a review was being made in the Ministry of Justice, then the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That's why I'm asking the highest. As per the Commission's review of the plan to initiate such preparations, a minister of the European Commission's specific laws on the subject of siege.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to start by calling attention to the term "transmission" monotonous. I hadn't realized before how good this term is, I hadn't learned to use it until I began to study this matter in the cause of this inquiry. More often, the term follow-up is used, in the English term, by president's permission, ◯stalting, but I love this ideal term, a siege term. But I would like them to know that last year the law of change made possible by the European Council's contract to validate prevention and to combat violence against women and domestic violence, a so-called Istanbul contract, which the perfunctoryly dismissed. When preparing to validate the agreement, the local Minister of State sought out a judicial committee that the Committee investigated whether and what changes would be necessary in Icelandic legislation to validate this Istanbul agreement. One of the terms of the treaty as a judicial committee was particularly considered in this regard was the 34th chapter. The deal that's about siegeal personnel. In commentes with the above bill, which I mentioned earlier, for the change in general penalties, this law of the Istanbul Convention was specifically discussed. It shows up, 34th chapter. The contract, to make necessary legal arrangements or other means to ensure that deliberate action involving threatening behavior to another person is declared guilty. 3 mg. 78th par. The same agreement is found on the basis of the contract and is therefore able to employ laws other than punishments if they choose. A restraining order may thus be a type of penalties comparable to punishment or penalties other than punishment. In the general penal code, there is no provision today for conduct as described in this terms of the Istanbul Convention. However, there is a valid law on restraining order and expulsion from home, law No. 85/2011, and it contains such a provision. According to Article 1. The laws of the restraining order refer to cases where a person is forbidden to come to a specific location or area, to follow, to visit, or to put himself in contact with another person in another direction. According to Article 4. the same law allows you to use a restraining order if it is suspected that the defendant has committed criminal offenses, there is a risk that the person may violate the fracture prevention and so on. Then there is also reason to call attention to judicial decisions in a general law of 1. 232nd par. According to this requirement, a violation against a restraining order may be guilty or imprisoned up to a year, up to two years in case of repeated or gross fractures. Even 233 str. legal matters are also considered and passed in this regard. It states that guilt and imprisonment may also be involved if a person is threatened with criminal action and the threat of a threat to instill fear of life, health, and so on in the streets. In view of the law of general penalties, as well as the specific law No. 85/2011, about a restraining order, and their recording of Icelandic rights and Icelandic judgments is not really thought to be 34. The Istanbul Convention requires specific changes in Icelandic legislation. There was a conclusion to the Court's judicial committee at the time that the terms of the Istanbul Convention did not require specifically changes in Icelandic legislation. However, in the treatment of the case, it is true that the change in penalties of the last Council of the World Commission was carefully reviewed in this arrangement of restraint and the law on restraining order. The conclusion of the General Commission was that there was a special provision for siege in Icelandic law, but it was also important that the right protection not be reduced. Of course, this is always a thin line or a narrow one that must be followed when changing the legal requirements, often in order to clarify judicial decisions, which often result in loss of the right protection available. Up to one time, a judicial committee has been assigned to reexamine the case following the findings of the General Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u41	A respectable president. The concept is certainly very interesting, for as soon as the mob gets in there and it's a bandage, another kind of harassment, I automatically think about how this applies and reflect traditional harassment. The only conclusion I'm going to find out about the difference is that there's only one person involved, but in traditional harassment there's possibly a lot of bacteria. I wonder if there's a penalty in the case of harassment where there's only one doer, otherwise it's no different from traditional harassment, let alone when the workers are many.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u42	President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. As noted in our exchanges, the General and Education Committee considers it proper to enact a special law on siege agreements in Icelandic legislation, but it is also important that the right protection that exists is not reduced, as has been stated in the case of the Minister. The committee also stated that there is a standing to start such work on the part of the Ministry. Here, in response to a minister, it is stated that a judicial committee has already been assigned to consider this for a special consideration. Neither of us has mentioned what is also mentioned in the committee's opinion that the committee encourages that this work is accomplished in the autumn of the Council and was naturally referring to the autumn of 2016. Now we're back in the spring of 2017. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers to be a little more specific in their answers to a prospective bill that will directly address the important factors, which is certainly a concern for those who are subject to siege, and no doubt subject to the fact that this situation will have to be reflected in some way in the legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u43	A respectable president. I can't describe the work of a justice committee and how it has dealt with the case, but I assume that it is professional. These matters need to be carefully examined. There is good reason to do so when you believe that a pot is broken or that some may be lost because of a lack of specific arrangements for siege. That's a good tip that missed you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, has to be clearly defined as to the state of siege. There may be more than one who participates in a siege cartel, I can't imagine that there's an end to that shot. However, this will be carefully examined by the Court's Committee of Justice, for example. judges that have agreed on these matters and look to police and others who are best familiar with such matters. As a result, a decision will be made to determine if there is any reason to offer a bill about it. The decision that no one will make is a minister if he intends to contribute the bill, but of course all others sitting in the Senate Hall are free to offer basics for what one is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u44	President. In Iceland, the Council of Thinking has given rise to a unique position, but unfortunately, funding for the work has been severely reduced to the budgets of the current year and has come for this reason to my inquiry. So I ask the highest. A health minister in the first place whether to evaluate or assess the operation of the Continental Power before these funding were dropped as much as it was under budget by 2017. Second, I ask, " Who are the main pioneers that these funds were dropped so much? ' Third, I ask whether a minister has discussed the matter of the Conspiracy with its guardians, or he intends to do so, and if not, then why. Fourth, I ask a minister who he believes is the role of an organization such as the Power of Mind, or supposed to be. Who believes a minister that the official's view of such discussions should be? How does he think it should appear? In effect, this question is, in what form of formal communication should be placed between this kind of organization and the Ministry and the Minister. That, first of all, and then the questions of stability in the funding of the organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. First of all, ask me why. paritaprevir Vágís Svavarsdóttir whether the assessment or assessment of the activities of the Continental Council was conducted before the budget was dropped, as it were, in 2017. Then I'd like to say that it is important to make a contribution from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Comfort, such as to many of the similar members, both in 2016 and 2017, was in the form of a scholarship made annually to various members of society, and they vary from year to year, and they vary from year to year. the number of applications and the total budget for distribution. This was not a fixed budget. Supported to partners is provided on the basis of the information presented in applications. This involved the distribution of well - being skills to the Teaching of Minds in 2016 and 2017 as well as the sponsorship of many other members of society. The Ministry of Justice has not requested a special assessment or assessment of the organization, but has requested the annual account of the Matrix for 2016, which was now delivered on May 3rd of May. Second, the senator asks, "Who are the main leaders that the budget for the operation of the Power of God was reduced so much? " Therefore, it is to say that the Power of Comfort has been strengthened as a member of the Community organization and is designed to strengthen the social work of the organization. Funding is not due to health care. However, in terms of government funding for mental - health treatment projects, it is through a fixed supply of health care funds, which may include: Management of rehabilitation, and, on the other hand, through contracts made by Iceland's Medical Insurance Minister on Health Care. In the case of solidarity, every October it is advertised for applications for the so-called welfare grant. This is a scholarship to the language fields that hear under the two Ministers in the Ministry of Health. In support of their distribution, it has been emphasized that the process of processing applications is as beneficial as possible. It is also important to make sure that the agreement between applications is non-discrimination. The distribution of funds is based on the regulations established by the Minister on funding of the Department of Health, which is granted each year. In recent years, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been funded by the Department of Justice and Health at the same time. Together, the organization got 2 billion. K. In 2014, 6 million. K. In 2015 and in eight million. K. in 2016. In 2017, I decided to make a donation to the bodies of budgetary funds authorized by the health secretary, which amounted to 1,548,750 k. That decision, as mentioned earlier, was based on rules that have been pursued in recent years and that have been built. on the number of members of the organization. I do not have the basis for discussing the intervention of other sponsors, but it does indicate that distribution is, in its nature, different after years with the amount of money to be distributed and the number of applications being used. Third, ask why. A member of the council, whether a minister has discussed the matter of Valiantism with or intends to do so. So on Monday, April 10th, we have an answer. I had a good meeting with a member of the Department of Health. During the meeting, important information on the work of the organization was provided, as well as on the granting of the Ministry of Health for Community Associations. Besides this, my assistants have had discussions with a representative of the organization. Finally, what minister is asked is the opinion that the role of a association such as the Power of Mind is or should be played? To answer, I believe a free society has a vital role in the field of health care. Many people do volunteer work, exert themselves, experience, and knowledge. Free society activity is an important part of society's socialism and cannot be valued for financial gain. Then we have an important example from our history, where a free organization has set up a ministry that has not been offered anywhere else. An example of this is e.g. A smog of smoke owned by free partners but is now run by a government service agreement, including about rehabilitation of people with psychiatric disorders. The financial resources of a user's health care providers are especially important to care for their associates'rights and to promote their own opinions and experience in health care. Therefore, I believe that consultations with users with health policy are very important. I believe that such an organization should be strengthened by the authorities, who must bear in mind that everyone at the same table. After that, I've won. Finally, I want to thank the senator for his question, for bringing up this role as a free society which I consider very important in most areas of society, and looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u46	Mr. President. You see, it's very important, like the highest. One minister said, that we support a free organization that cares for the many and invisible works that truly bring us back more qualified individuals. I think this organization, like more, like the highest. A minister mentioned, in many ways being less expensive at the end of the day. We know that because of mental health problems, the number of people who suffer from disability has increased. I challenge a minister to sign a service contracts, whether at the Humunity or at any other person who is doing this so important psychological work. It's cheaper at the end of the day. We are more likely to be able to help people back into life, that they may be unable to do their jobs because they have to wait a long time for service or simply cannot afford the services of mental - health professionals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. I was told it was necessary, this would be a hell of a comment, since it was so much trouble. I wondered, in the comments of the last speaker, who says that this is a less expensive option, the discussion of personal employment and public health care. If it's less expensive resources, why isn't our health care the same, or are we in some way contradicting ourselves here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u48	President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I'd like to ask him to try in the second round to sharpen anything on them. His answer, however, shows that there is not a fixed budget, but the budget is determined each time by the number of applications and information contained in them. Then I would like to ask the minister to try to give a decisive answer as to what it was in the information about the operation of the Continental Power directly between years of age that made the figure change from year to year. The minister answered these factors in a rather general way, and I would like to try to make a clearer answer for himself. Then I would like to ask the minister that the health - care system is quite significant, and most important, many have pointed to the state of the mental - health service and the problem there, and especially in the mental wards of the Land Hospital because the pressures are far more than the services, how he envisions the involvement of free partnerships, such as the Power of Mind and the official service we offer. Does he see that this interaction can become even more rich and clearer in the future? This is a very sensitive group that needs a clear explanation, and it really is a minister to provide the clear answers that reduces doubts and vague details in this entire setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to start by answering specifics like what's wrong. A senator requested regarding the budget. When the amount was determined by the health - quality minister's grant, applications were considered, as well as the number of candidates, and therefore there were some gaps between the years. The big difference, though, is that in 2016 there were given 5 million allowances, which were given by a financial committee, although it would go through the Ministry of Health, but by 2017 a legal committee was not specifically assigned to the organization. This is primarily the difference between years and years. I agree with what. In many ways, a candidate for extramarital or mental - health systems today is unclear. While there are many options, treatment of partnerships, as well as public parties, this has actually developed over the last few decades that the system is virtually incomprehensible from the perspective of patients and their victims, as is shown in a memo from the surgeon's office of the Department of Health, which became available in January. At the same time, we may have increased cooperation between partners and health institutions, and according to approved mental - health policies, we have added to this category, especially at the health care center, where there has been an increase in the number of psychologists and also the structure of so - called mental - health professionals that work in cooperation with a free group. I consider this to be a good development that should continue and thank you for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u50	Mr. President. The reason for this inquiry is a recent fracture of the highest. Prime Minister of Equal Courts, which ruled by the Court's Committee on Equal Opportunities. The prime minister would have violated equality when he appointed a man to the office manager for the finance and economic services in place of a woman who was considered equally appropriate. The decision stated that while the person giving such a position has some opportunity to choose the perennial viewpoints that he intends to make the basis for his choice of the most qualified candidate in office, it is important that the quality of preparation be made and the evidence be made which could shed light on the evaluations made on the basis of an interview. The decision was that such data were inadequate, that the interviews had not been standardized as interviews by an expert committee, that candidates had not been given specific information about the subject of an interview, and that the content of one question would have included knowing the practice and staff of the relevant office having given the lead to the appointed employee at the end of the office. So the D.A. felt that the defendant could not have shown that the interviews had, in fact, shown that the person appointed was more qualified to perform the office than the charge. It is also to add that the female in these facilities, i.e. the office manager's office office office at the local office office office. This is not the first case in which ministers become guilty of equality. We need to be careful that any fairness should be taken into account before the Ministers have received such a decision; the former Supreme Court. Minister of state and former Supreme Minister. Prime Minister, though the decisions may differ from those of one another. We have laws about equal positions and equal rights for women and men. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the matter of equality: Does he consider it a reason to revise the law so that some kind of response or penalties will be defined when judicial committees make such a decision? Granted, there are some compensations, but there is not exactly how such a decision will be dealt with, which is still an enormous issue. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: If he thinks he is, does he have any ideas about such reactions, what might they be, in view of the fact that this is not the first example of violating these laws? Tells you the highest. Ministers have reason to promote the work of an ELC, the administrative agency responsible for applying this law? Does she need further authority, or even more, by law in order to ensure the aim of the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir for this inquiry. It is therefore to answer the question of a review of the laws on equal positions as well as the appropriate sex or female and male genders and the possible response or granting of a judicial hearing that we have a plan within the Ministry to take the whole law as a review in the fall. The current equality law has been changed several times from a sentence on a particular point, but now it is time for an overall review to end less than ten years from the law's sentence. The General adopted in September 2016 a proposal for the resolution of a non-inferiority programme for 2016 ◯2019 and one of the basic projects required by the Management Board is precisely that the assessment of equality laws and the administration of equal rights. We will appoint a team of experts who will monitor the development, the assessment and the follow-up of Icelandic equality legislation and the general administration of equality. Among the things to be investigated are whether current legislation and equality management objectives are in line with international trends and changes in Icelandic society. The task force shall submit a report to the Minister on their results and provide suggestions for improvement. Plans are in place to complete this work by December 1. The cost plan is 4 billion. K. The Ministry of Success is the responsible servant of this project. So it's clear, and my will stands for an immediate fall to a total review of the law and review of the legal administration of the party. The task force is not yet available, but it is expected to be assigned even. by the specialists of the Social Services, Department of Health and Justice and that special consultations will be made with representatives from, including, the women's movement and organisations that are concerned with equality and human rights, the Board of Equal Opportunities, the labour market organisations, and others. The task of a committee is to address treatment and provide a written statement as to whether the laws of this law were violated. The bottom line of the D.A. is not charged with higher administrations. In cases that may be expected to have a targeted impact on the workforce as a whole, the Committee shall seek a review of the overall labour and employment organisations before making a decision. Advertisers are permitted to bear the decision of the Committee under the courts. It's 4 mg. Section 5. As an equal law, the Court's decision of equal rights includes binding conclusions on whether the rights of women and men were violated by law against equal rights. However, the Commission's decision is merely to determine whether laws on equal positions and equal rights of women and men have been broken or not, for it is defined as the role of the committee under law. The Court then has a general ruling authority on the value of the administrative decision, as per principle 60. Iceland's constitution, and must conclude that the courts have been authorized, that they filled up certain legal conditions, to resolve any disagreements as to whether theJustice Committee of Equal Opportunities has based a decision based on legal and grammatic views. Experience in the past ten years of current equality laws has revealed that their individual requirements need special attention. They will be put on special emphasis in the upcoming revision work. Among these are articles that are addressed to the judicial committee of equality. With equality laws from 2008, the decision given by the Committee, as stated earlier, became binding to the participants, with the possibility of putting the results of the Commission into greater force than previously made, and the implementation of these issues is getting closer to what is practiced in other Norwegian countries. Now it is time to examine whether it should go further and see if there is any reason to define the response or the terms to the judicial committee decision of equality. It is one of the work groups that will be involved in this review to further investigate in the way other North countries have handled these issues. There have been other ways, including has been empowered by panels to make a day's fine so as to force a call on their decision. Some panels may even determine the right to improve in certain cases, such as if they have concluded that there is an unjustified report and can invalidate statements unless it is considered unrealistic to maintain the recruitment relationship. This is, of course, a subject that often makes it difficult to reverse a decision made by a judicial committee in this way or indiscriminately, but it should be considered what other options may be involved. Third, the question is, Is there any reason to promote the function of an equal rights firm? It is therefore most unlikely to answer that, of course, there will be one subject review of the law whether an Assort living room can perform its legal tasks or if it needs to be further enhanced. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u52	A respectable president. When I read through the decision, I found one point very interesting; one of the questions on the subject was involved in their knowledge of the laws on public finances, and that was really before the law came up as such. Based on our experience with the current stream, I believe the question was extremely inappropriate with regard to the candidate who gained a higher limit, for it is obvious that there is no knowledge of the law on public finance, we are all learning about it here for the first time. So the question was inappropriate to me in that question package. The bottom line we're dealing with here is that after both candidates were deemed equally qualified, a decision was made by unencrypted, undetectable format, i.e. We do not know what question a minister asked candidates and why there was no clear reason, why he came to that conclusion, except from a personal opinion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not in the spirit of a good government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I don't think it would be proper to think that the binding decisions are really no clear response. It is more than simply to consult the courts to seek justice when such a decision has fallen. I think it's quite normal that you're looking at the overall reexamination at the highest level. Ministers announce that there is some defined response, since this is a big issue, especially for a nation who wants to be the lead in international equality and who presents himself as such. It is then important that words follow the action. In this case and in the person I mentioned in my inquiry, it is important that the reactions are not random, that there are explanations. V.E.G. A minister mentioned that there would be a total reevaluation of equality in the fall and that there would be a special team, and then there would be women moving, working people, and others called in. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of whether he thinks it is right that the political parties somehow come to the overall review, because this is a huge case that I believe would be the best way to cooperate with groups of the General Assembly. Of course, it is also important that those who have the highest level of agreement be reached so that we can do them here at the council so that the best results can be achieved. I'd like to finally say that I believe that it is a key factor that our management agency, an economist, receive very clear sources of this review as well as that the violation of equality law will not be ignored or that it is, in fact, a chance of what the consequences will be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator again and again. I just agree with what you're saying. In order to enforce such decisions when available, the senator will see what is involved in the importance of explaining the decision. Depending on the nature of the issue, what suggestions can be taken when a decision is made? The technical decision may be as it seems to be in the case of this, that it was simply a matter of primary attention to the interview or recruitment process so that it was not clear what was the basis for a final assessment of an appropriate date. Of course, it is important to direct them to the relevant institutions or the Ministry to improve them in the recruitment process, as this should, of course, be very clear. But then it is important for clear and smart violations to be considered by the Committee on Equal Opportunities to conclude that the right of an employee or candidate is a clear tool that can be used to ensure the right of the individual. I think it's very important in the review of the equality events that such measures will be taken into consideration. I'm happy to hear what you're saying. The senator's importance of this review is largely political reconciliation, and I think it would be very reasonable for political parties to be involved in this work and will consider it in the Ministry to see how it is possible to make sure that the matter is well discussed and thought about how it will be handled at the council when the time comes. I thank you again and again for the inquiry and for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u55	A respectable president. During the last term, we heard things about the so - called correction. For one or another, this correction is arranged at times in the General's symposium, and people say, "I love the correction. " I don't want this shot game, so I simply ask them what the data is. How did the correction affect the home's debt? I can only see that increasing housing prices are what has mainly affected the home's debt in recent years. So I'm curious to find out what's true, so I ask a minister in the first place: What does a minister especially consider to be a clear improvement in domestic debt other than an increase in housing prices over the last few years? I'm asking for a cross-border response by parts of the country, but at least... Overall. Second, what can be assumed that the correction will go a long way into the home's better debt? I ask again for the reply by part of the country, but, of course, it is necessary. Based on the answer I received to a similar request, I needed more accurate answers to these points, so I ask again. But it was then known how much was paid to correct the situation. In 2014 it was 35.7 billion. And that year, the debt rate of the households was 43%. With regard to total property and total debt, isn't the decrease in debt ratio 0.8% due to correction? The proportion is clearly lower in 2015 and 2016 because the correction rate is much lower than the overall effect around a 1.5% lower debt ratio if I calculate this correctly. Here two questions can be asked: Is there anything other than an increase in housing prices that also explain the decrease in debt ratios, such as the correction, and whether a 1.5% of debt decreases depend on the praise or ridicule directly on it? I'm not going to put a sentence on the second question myself, but I'm just asking people to look at the numbers when they pick descriptions. Then we'll know the others at least The value behind the selected adjective, whether awesome or terrible, is the same number. My goal is not to make such correction a little or much different, but it is not to be minimized, but it is to be debated about the methodology. It can be said that not all who deserved correction and that some who received correction did not deserve it. But there is no question that the crowns are important to those they received. In my previous inquiry, I asked specifically how much the correction meant to improve the home's debt. I am curious to know why that question was not answered and why I have to figure it out for myself with all the possibilities of mistakes it may lead to. So on this occasion, I would like to direct that question directly to the minister. Since I don't feel like having it as political bites for the next few decades, how awesome or terrible the correction was, I just want to know what its effect is on the home debt status. If it didn't work in the first inquiry, I'll ask again and hope for an answer this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. It is a joy to see that the homes'debt has been progressively improving in recent years. There's a lot of things in there that can explain. In recent years, there is increasing financial power, purity, and subsidies. You can talk about 110% of the route, a tool for special payment adaptation by the agent of a credit agent at the time, and now the last correction and both direct ablation due to it and the ability of the households to use special property savings to pay directly to the head chair loans. All of this, and more than that, we can simply point out the safety of the household, which has led to a great improvement in their ability to produce. It is primarily due to an increase in housing prices and the fact that national housing loans have replaced the period since 2010◯2015, an increase of 0.7%, which really means, with the largest part of this debt becoming inflatable, that the households have been paying nets to more than the inflation of the period. All of this goes hand-to-hand. The overall growth in housing prices has largely been made stronger, but home has apparently paid a significant amount of money during the period, especially in other debts that have dropped by 20% in the period covered. It is in itself happy that all of us have evidently learned from the collapse of the years and slow down the joyful door since then, and the home was much more cautious in their decisions and debts than was in the leading of the economic collapse of 2008◯2009. With regard to the recent development, i.e. In addition to the period in question, 2010◯2015, the evidence indicates that evolution continues to be very similar. There is not much evidence of an increase in debt yet. A continuing rise in real estate prices has greatly strengthened the home's privacy in addition to what has already been mentioned in the answers here. The households of the households have thus increased by 35%, or from over 3,500 billion to 4,800. In the meantime, debt because of mortgages has been more and less involved, with some 1,200 billion. Other debts have dropped just under 790 billion in just less than 630 billion 2015. In fact, some 88.5% over the period has increased their financial standings, ranging from 1,560 billion to just over 3,000 billion. In terms of self-important correction in this development, as was shown in a report by the Ministry of Economics submitted to the World General in January of the past on the decline of securities of mortgages, the total financial level of what was taken into account on mortgages due to correction of 72.2 billion. Of these, 62.4 billion were arranged as a direct head count reduction. In addition to this, many individuals have made use of the means of paying part of themselves or all their special savings to the head of real estate loans. Last year, that amount was some 24 billion. However, we do not have available data to address a question. I'm sorry, a senator of how this conversion is divided between parts of the country. Despite our request, we could not get any disunition from it. But it remains, as you can see, that considering the development of domestic debt, all the resources that governments have offered during recent years had something to say about the reality of the trend. You can see the mark of 110% of the route and other specific resources available in the range of the years around 20106/2011 in numbers despite a few inflation at that time. Similarly, when corrected, the value of the debt in question was reduced in 2014-2015. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u57	A respectable president. Yes, I'm still looking for how much this correction leads to a better debt for the household. I'm looking for a number, as I asked about. It appears only in its entirety, which is 72.2 billion, but it does speak only in context. I'm looking for the context. It is evident that largely the majority of the increase in housing has a bearing on the home's better debt. I don't have that ratio either. It was part of my query the first time, but I wanted to enter especially after this factor. I'm looking for disunition of the different ways that have been going in order to see how efficient they are, perhaps on future music. By means of a short, simple account, just dragging these 72.2 billion away from the whole thing and sharing a little bit, I got about 1.5% of the total debt status. I don't know if it's the right methodology or if I need to consider some other factors, so I'm asking a minister, who has a much better position to set the example more professionally than I do. Again, I ask, " What can I assume is that the correction goes a long way into the home's better debt? ' Let's skip demolition by parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator's inquiry will well respect his efforts to get clear, clear answers here. I can't really answer this much simpler than I did. According to a report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this number is 72 billion that was paid to the head of the mortgages. As a ratio, if we watch 2014 mortgages, the mortgage debt of 1,250 billion by apartment loans at that point was mined. Of course, this is always different sizes, since we see new loans come in, subsidies loans, and so forth. But we can only assume that if that correction hadn't occurred, homes would be 72 billion times higher. I figure if we watch 1,250 billion and 72 billion, we'll be between 6◯7% of these mortgages. Hv. A senator can then insert it into a pocket calculator to confirm it. But I suppose it was of some sort that if not, the mortgage would be higher. It should be noted that during the period of the reply, through 2015, correction is not fully carried out. As a result, her influence is not fully influenced by these figures. But we'll see, for example. Very clear that home mortgages drop by 35 billion, or approximately between 2014 and 2015. This may be due to a substantial degree of correction. I hope this answers a question. A senator, and thank you very much for your discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u59	Mr. President. During the last assembly, the law on restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment was changed, making it defined a homemaking arrangement, i.e. a place to stay where you live, which is not then defined as a job house, in return. There, on the one hand, a legal arrangement was set, making it necessary for those who want to rent property to make foreign tourists to have to register such use. It is set out that the number of laid - down days should not exceed 90 days per calendar year, and a combined income of rent should not exceed a higher amount of money. This is true of the real estate that one has in himself or one other property that one has for one's own use, not for a job house, both property. The law of registration was then set up in the county and needed to dissociate such assets. It would be to take a picture if the person crossed those 90 days or the money was higher or something. These laws were passed and adopted in a relatively good way at the General Assembly, and it is very important that what we call in daily speech, Airbnb, which is then a reference to a particular company that has been known for such communication - they are more - and other registrations would come on the surface so that it would be paid a natural tax. We now have another bill at the council on the tax returns from such a business. But at the same time a man was there, and I think I know that the highest. A minister has heard a number of about this, that people are concerned about how the surveillance is being done by the fact that these regulations are active, who carefully observes that you do not exceed 90 days, or that the money passes over certain limits. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How has this monitoring been conducted, and what financial protection has been spent? Tells you the highest. Minister that this area of care is adequately prepared for use in the current law? What we have. In many parts of the country, delegates hear our meetings in different parts of the world: Homemaking, which in many respects is a wonderful advantage, and I have made good use of myself while traveling abroad with my large family, can, of course, cause trouble, to form in apartment buildings, for example. Of course, this is also a competition with innkeepers, so it is very important that the line be respected. Finally, I would like to ask a minister: How has this development been in the registry of homemaking, i.e. Did these registrations really change?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry on a subject full of need. The client in the capital area cares for the registration and monitoring of homework, as measured by Article 38. The regulations for restaurants, lodgings and entertainment. Since the end of the year, significant work has taken place in policy development and the induction of surveillance. This has been done primarily by receiving and responding to indications of the registered activities of citizens and surveillance. Work is about implementing active initiative monitoring at a national level, which is almost entirely carried out electronically. The aim is to map short - term rents to tourists throughout the country. In order to accomplish this, the businessman in the capital area will create and maintain a database with information on registration and permit activities. He'll even. store information about the location of the current activity, the name of the operator, addresses, the number of inns and more. Information will include such as, by permission of the President's book tissues, this is probably all in English: Airbnb, Home to Go, Booking, Bungalow, Rental Modems, and rentin smoke freaks.com. Like a snooze. A senator came in here, they're more people than Airbnb we'll be dealing with. In many cases, these pages contain inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading information about the location and function of the operator. For this reason, it may be necessary to obtain more information, including with a review of the market and any product information in public and general databases and other media. In this way information collection may be called to read maps and indexes and will be provided with information coming from public citizens and surveillance providers. Follow-up should primarily take place in an electronic way. When enough information is available on national short-term renting, the data can be added to the above issue of the vacancy and documented homemaking. At that time, an unscrupulous operation will be challenged to document its activities according to the legal requirements prior to the application of administrative guiltys. In some cases, the businessman will follow up cases with administrative fines. They can be studied from 10 of you. K. To 1 million. K. The law on restaurants, beds, and entertainment contains legal legislation to transmit information from taxpayers to the tax authorities. Hv. A senator asks what funding was spent on this surveillance. The cost of the new projects is not precisely divided, but the cost of the bill in its time was estimated at 30 million annual costs. K. Regarding the question of whether a minister believes that there has been a proper application of the existing law, the brief answer is that I don't think it is. It was the primary objective of the new law to simplify the alleged misbehaviour of the license process with a follow-up in order to obtain permission and registration of activity on the surface. The changes include that individuals, couples, or couples who intend to offer a new definition of homework only have to register electronically with a businessman but no longer need to get a license published and go through an application procedure according to the law. In spite of the change in the frequency of lodging under the new law, changes in the activities of the permitation of the health committees have not yet been performed. Gesture sites, including homemaking, are thus subject to continuation of the Marketing Authorisation. In my mind, this prevents goals from changing the law about restaurants, resting places, and entertainment, for the simplicity, to be fully accomplished. As we know, there is now a bill for a change in the laws on the path of loyalty and pollution from environmental Ministers, including to deal with this. I expect it and I understand that there will be a bill at the current council to simplify a registration procedure and direct the operators into the electronic registration site. This is very important. Of course, further monitoring needs to be evaluated, e.g. ... froma businessman. To me, it's quite obvious that there's not enough force there. Then we need to do something about it. The need to increase the intensity of your efforts to combat black employment, e.g. those who offer lodging through Airbnb or similar but who have not recorded their assets, as the law expects. Of course, such things are annoying. It misplaces the competitive position of an enterprise. I think it's important that we clean this up. With regard to the final question, the development has increased according to information made by the businessman in the capital area, following a change in law. I did not receive precise numbers, but according to the county web, 389 registrations have been confirmed for the remainder of 2017. I expect the Environment Minister to become the law. [[The president calls.]] This can only be achieved by previous laws that have been approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u61	Mr. President. Thank you for the leader and secretary of the question. I discussed it considerably when the case was presented at the time of the time by the then president of the United States. Secretary of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir. It was just this monitoring program that we were really worried about. As far as I can hear from the fact that the Minister expects there to be initiative surveillance in the rural community, they say it's very difficult, they don't get a report of new registrations, so something is broken against the rural communities. Then an eight - year - old set up. K. The price that individuals were to pay, that is, to register and pay. Now it seems that the collections are higher property taxes and other things that were never discussed when we discussed the matter. That may even have been the case. that people do not come up on the surface as they were laid. And, of course, it is shocking that rural society, which had almost forbidden short - term rent to be discussed in the apartment market, is not protected from this. Now they're stuck with nothing to do. Except for such companies in the scattered settlements and even have more than 90 days of rent rights and still pays full housing fees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers give the answers, and agree with what. A senator who spoke first. I think it's important to examine the interaction with the rurals. The development we see is that apartment areas are being used in such areas, with little doubt at any spot for much longer than required by law. This has a major impact on the housing market, especially for those who are trying to break their way into this difficult housing market. That's why I think we need to consider, also, what tools and tools are being used by rural governments to control how living within them will be. In many foreign cities, we can see that such rules are well - documented for rural communities. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the surveillance program I specifically asked about. Of course, but she mentioned indications from public citizens that these matters are physically similar to those of employment. It is different, I think, for us most to offer tips to our neighbors'homes than to make comments about employment. I think that's very important. Minister mentioned, this electronic checkup, i.e. collection of data from all these pages via the Constitution database of the county government. That must be the future. It is difficult to give supervision to people in our neighborhood, and all of us want to respect the boundaries of our personal life, or hopefully most of them. I think it's a big deal that the surveillance will be through this registry. V.E.G. A minister named a bill on the method of loyalty and pollution. I think I know that the plan is to finish the part of which turns to Airbnb. It's important if it starts. V.E.G. A minister noted that this entire environment would have to be examined. I think it's important here, that rural and rural aspects of this will be considered separately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen for their word. I'll agree with them about interaction with locals and tools and their equipment. You see, it also turns to the checkpoint. That is why I have wondered whether the check is with the one county office in the capital area all happened. In the country, there are relatively small rural areas and perhaps more monitoring there, which makes it easier to keep a perspective on a business in town. Of course, the answer and the future are that it needs to be electronic and available. That's the only thing we know. That's right, and that's why it's also a big deal that this involves not only a competitive position in this business but also the housing market. You can't take it apart. This has a powerful effect, especially in the capital area. We see that it seems more practical for people to rent houses on such rent as these, especially if we don't have the right to have the office to supervise, of course, to fill up a lot of space with tourists rather than with Icelanders who are trying to get into the housing market. Having these things okay will also help in other areas. Just at the end of the bill, which I'm happy to hear is that this is the second side of the coin. It's hard to accept these laws that became legal last year, but not the exception provided by the Environment Minister of the Environment, because we cannot achieve the goals of the other laws unless this is observed. [[The president calls.]] Well, it's a good thing it's here. But I agree this calls for a lot of discussion and we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u64	President. This was foretold when the management center of tourism was set up by great displays and decorations, and it was made known that this case group had entered a worthy frame of action, i.e. There, the then minister of travel, the Ragnhedður Árnadóttir Yearnado, saw that this was a matter not only of one minister but of many, that the group was designed to enter the realm of many ministers and many counselors. Of course, there was good reason to celebrate that approach, for as a result, Iceland's board of directors has been marked by quite thick walls between recruitment and the full reason to introduce more integration between ministers and advisers in these cases. Then, in the time of the present government, it is reported of the plan to raise the value tax in tourism. In fact, it's a suggestion of the highest order. Secretary of the budget for financial and economics until the end of the five-year period. Then it appears, almost as soon as possible. A minister explains these plans, that they are not at peace in the government categories and are very disproportionate in the tourism itself, both in part and also in the content of the proposal, and were even allowed to conclude that this was done entirely without consultation. You'd think the travel center was just the field to take this kind of plan through and discuss it there with all the ministers involved in the litigation, but more so with the sector itself, i.e. Tourism. So, I ask the minister: What was the approach of the travel centres to the government's decision to raise the value tax in tourism? If she was somebody, how much? If she was none, then why?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The answer is clear: When the government decided to make a government decision on an increase in the value of taxes, there was no one. Despite that, I'm going to add a few words. In other words, the matter was never discussed at the headquarters of tourism before a financial program was published and introduced. However, the representatives of the Transporter Association were made aware of what was just - very short - before they planned to transfer part of the tourism service to a general value tax level was presented publicly by the prime minister. As everyone knows, the organization has been extremely critical of the decision and, in fact, the same. Like the wind of the decision, criticism of our words and the article on our part will lead us to the conclusion of the matter. A senator came in. So let me just put it into context, it is good to recall that when the management center of tourism was set up, temporarily until 2020, by government, rural society, and in the fall of 2015, her role in the coordination of action and implementation was intended to provide the solid foundation that was called after a travel service, which had become one of the country's basic work projects. This was to be done in cooperation with government, rural society, as well as the international support of the article, the article itself, and other stakeholders. In my opinion, the project has succeeded and significant success has been achieved in the short period since the start of the command center. I can well understand the criticism that has been shown that the article wanted to be available to this decision, but on the basis of the government, it can be said that the travel regime was not expected to have access to government policy on natural and ongoing developments and the tax system. It is appropriate to maintain that, in addition to the proposed entry into the main groups of transport services at the general level of cost taxes, there is a tendency to reduce the general level, which brings benefits to the Icelandic consumers and is intended to reduce the prices in the country. The decision on this matter should be made only with the next winter's income bill. This is one of the priorities of a financial program that will be discussed here at the General Assembly. The case has received its political treatment, has received reviews from a number of sources, especially tourists in tourism, and, as noted, has presented various viewpoints that the government is considering. This is the normal course, and, of course, these views will be taken into consideration. But then I have the right to answer that question was the introduction of the government's headquarters to the approach of government on an increase in worth tax on travel. There was no discussion at the board meetings. I understand well the criticism of a lack of consultation. As I'm saying, this is one pre-invented financial program, and all transfers remain. This matter has been for the treatment of the council, and the organization and others have presented their views. A financial committee has then directed it to the government to consider this matter further, and of course we do. I'll make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u66	A respectable president. The changes in worth tax will no doubt affect the survival of tourism. I'm not gonna spend this few seconds discussing it, I'm gonna do another thing that I think has a lot of influence on the tourism industry, i.e. In general, put the price of a travel service; food, drink, lodging, recreation, rentals, and so forth. I have long claimed that in Iceland the price level is very high in most of the things I've mentioned. I think it in itself has the same serious or profound effect on the future of tourism as we look at it, that we continue to have these very high and abnormally high prices, especially in the summers where people are trying to make profits or income because of the few tourists in the winter. I think this is an abnormal situation. I'd love to hear an opinion. It's a travel minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u67	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. So it is said that no consultation was made with the Tourist Control Center, which is in accordance with the law of the foundation of consultation, and that this should be a complete approach to the development of this article. In fact, the government's administrative center has not really used the means and is avoided in this specific government decision, since the minister of criticism understands it well, as shown in its case. I would like to ask the second question, which is only a matter of blue. It is this: Is the Government a travel center for anything? Would it not be honest, then, if it is not about such a big matter? So, what should it be mountaining, just taking pictures of it? Is it just a show of decoration or is it something? On the other hand, I'd like to ask the minister, that might be a question that burns more at the council right now. The minister agrees with criticism that the change with regard to the worthy tax in the article was very strong, etc. and that the discussion has not been adequate, so how can it be said: A minister realizes that financial programs will be financed? Does it think that the result could be the same but only through more consultations with the article, longer developments, etc., or does it have other ideas of a financial fund in order to achieve financial stability after all?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-73.u68	Right about a question why. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson's amissary. It's hard for me to pass judgment on this, but of course I've seen and heard about a number of things in this regard. Tourism must be kept in mind that prices and quality must be shared. If we're going to build a trip to the future that is supposed to be sustainable, it's important that we take care of that. Regarding the existence of a travel station, I find that to be true. I've taken no photo of the travel management center or other events we've been on. We'll have work meetings and make decisions. I made up my mind that we had a meeting every month on the first Tuesday. They're meeting a decision-and-work meeting. Despite all of this, much has been achieved there. Regarding whether I provide for myself other means of fulfilling what a financial plan needs to be met, as if it were due to be returned to the sink, I think that by the end of this decision it will be. I work at least. Based on that. As I would say, the majority of the legal committees directed certain points to the government we are considering. I just like this late 2019. It is not a very convenient time to enter such a short period of change, which then lowers a few months later. If the budget allows it, I think it's a good thing that we do. Other exports and possible counter measures for affected areas are also being carried out.
