ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u1	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Commission's opinion of bill to legalize the rights and responsibilities of the government's employees, No. 70/1996. The committee met Gunnar Björnsson, Marta Birna Baldursdóttir and Sara Lind Guðbergsdóttir, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ingibjörg S. Sverrisdóttir, and Árnadóttir Linda Aarjörnótir from the Directors of the Reichs. In addition, there was a review from Iceland's police chief. The bill suggests a change in the rights and duties of government personnel aimed at preventing the increased cost of Penitentiary due to inconsistencies between 39. a Code on the rights and duties of the employees of the state and 2 mg. 24th par. Act on the State Department of Pension, as per 1. Thirty-five. Same song. Other than that, I refer to the committee on the subject. 108, but under it he wrote, Óli Björn Ólafur, the Dögg of Brutish, the Brynjar of Níelsson, the Helgi of Hrafn, the Þór of Gunnarsdóttir, Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Harðardóttir G.. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u2	A respectable president. I have the great privilege of measuring for 76 people by the bill. A General Board of Education and Education received 125 applications for citizenship at the 148th General Assembly but under 1st. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The committee suggests that 76 applications will be agreed on and that these individuals will be granted the citizenship right this time. I want to use this opportunity while I'm standing here to congratulate these new Icelanders and also wish them good luck in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u3	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a European Commission with a change from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on deck. 110. This is two adjustments. On the one hand, it is possible for 1 mg. 57st. b Treaty on income taxes is restricted by the authority's legislation to reduce taxable interest costs and losses due to loan trade with linked partners. It may be noted that in the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs, a bill that became the law of No. 59/2017, it was noted that the discharge of the administry could prevent enterprises from a joint loan that could increase their financial cost. Therefore, the dismissal of this issue was suggested to be approved, which was directed to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to consider how to ensure that it would not be affected by the normal funding in the same setting, which was not aimed at limiting the tax obligations of the respective cohesion. These modifications have not been made until now. The adjustment proposal we received was in that we thought it wasn't wise to agree with the ideas of the Ministry of Economics and Economics. So I think it's safe to say that behind the opinion, the Economic and Business Committee is also a monotonous one - that the fall of the 3 mg. 57st. b A law on income tax will be temporarily suspended for one year to January 1, 2018, in order to allow further time to shape a proposal in accordance with Iceland's commitments, according to the European Economic Area Convention, without affecting the normal financial resources of the collectives, which are not aimed at limiting taxes. The second adjustment proposal arises because after 2nd. The Committee received instructions from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking that the Committee suggest that provision for temporary V and VI, by law on high school, from 2008, be extended. In the provisional guidelines, higher schools are provided with provision for payment on external expenses and schools outside the regular daily high school work period and during high school education, but it is expected to be in b-jords 1. 45. g. 4 mg. Same thing. law about high school. The 2018 fiscal bill does not provide additional donations for shopping and teaching at night school and telecommunications to cover expenses. In view of this, a greater proportion of the Committee contributes to the provision of the provision of the provisional regulations for the school of 2017, 2018/2019, and 2019,2020. However, the reference work is only forward and does not take into account the portion of the school year 2017◯2018 that will already be over when the extension takes effect. Thus, the majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes made on panels. 110. In addition, I'd like to draw the attention of the United States Congress to the fact that there is a change in motion. 113, from the one listed here, which is a technical adjustment for a review of the 2nd. it turns out at 41 st. is quoted as being a figure who has already fallen from law. It is therefore suggested that there is no reason for us to ignore something that does not exist and that does not have any material meaning or change anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u4	Mr. President. I recommend my body of committees and our project on bill making a legal adjustment to various laws because of budgeted by 2018. The 2nd. on the bill, they turned in political groups that make up a smaller section of the Committee each with the political emphasis on each party and the changes presented. For the 3rd. together the groups for changes in child improvements and growth improvements criteria. In other countries and in other parts of Europe, there has been great agreement on the value of support for child - rearing families, but this has been a significant reduction in its effectiveness. Child damages in other countries are fixed up on a child, but support in Iceland depends not only on the number and age of children but also on parental income and marriage status. As the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter contributes to more poverty among working people, a major reduction in child - rearing right away in low incomes. A couple both who have paid jobs but whose jobs are low get small child benefits here. This is what makes children's families more likely to live in poverty in this country than families without children. The highest government suggests that child - care criteria will only be slightly altered to allow parents with less than 242 points. K. During months you will receive unscivilized child support instead of 225 you. K. in 2017. First - child payments only rise according to this amount of 1,47k. per month and payments rise by 1,758 k. every month with each child thereafter. V.E.G. This is suggested by the government, although child - welfare has increased by 23% in the 2008's and more than twelve thousand in the year 2013. The minority suggests that there will be a compromise between the Norwegian arrangement and the government's proposal to limit child reform in 2018 to a minimum wage, which will be 300 dues. K. per month. Parents who earn less than they can get, so they get minor benefits. In the opinion of the lesser part, the lesser part is set up and the tables show the significance of these changes as suggested by the lesser part compared with the change in government law and the situation in 2017. Hv. Parliaments who support the government can examine this carefully before making their decision. It is estimated that the expenses of the state's budget increase by 1.8 billion dollars. the proposal is accepted. The bill we discuss assumes that temporary calculation of the rules and guidelines for growth reforms, temporary regulations on income taxes, will be extended by one year. In recent years, government funds have dropped dramatically. Despite the high increases in real estate prices, property goals have not been altered. Now it is time for individuals and couples with a small annual income (e.g. in gross housing, there is little or no growth benefits. Based on the comparable income and share of property in 2008, this group received interest improvements of about 30 to40%, but today they are negligible. The minority suggests that individual and married people's property targets and the taxation of partners under the provisional arrangement increase by 5.2 billion. K. According to a memo adopted by the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, this increase in growth reforms, due to an increase in property parameters of decrease, by 5 billion. K. is the lowest of three income tenants. The committee considers adjustments in both child - welfare and growth improvements. Under this heading, write along with the one that stands here, why. Councilmen Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, a member of the Committee to Re-Elect, agrees with this view. A respectable president. Now I've spoken to the committee party of my part. I'd like to add a little because of discussions about poverty, which was here today. There, people spoke extensively about the national misery they were in Iceland, this rich country, about poverty and lack of people, whether they were economic deficiency or social. Hv. paritaprevir Rafney Electrolyney Magnúsdóttir, correctly, indicated that there was an increase in discrepancies here. That would be a reality that we would need to respond to. She said that it should, of course, but that the time had been short, so it can't be handled right now. I find it important to take this little step at least into this poor talk and to discuss children's position that child support will not be impaired until minimum wage. V.E.G. The social and equality minister said it was government policy to work against poverty and particularly need to consider the status of children. It was the same story in the case of the highest. Minister when he spoke of a lack of time, i.e. that if he had not been there, the government would have done much better. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé agreed that there was a national embarrassment, that poverty was found in Iceland. He claimed we could change this. I agree with what. Senator. He asked for an interpolitic humility toward the project and wanted us to join him. But if I understand why. A senator was right. He just wanted to do it later. I've got news for you. Generals. It takes no time to accept the suggestion of the smaller part on this small step to improve the state of the children's family in Iceland, which means that children's benefits will not be impaired until the minimum wage is reached. It is a small step, but it is of great importance to the families of children that are worst in this country. Then let's talk about a revision of the system, for of course we should take bigger steps and aim for the best in other Norwegian countries to compare us with in this regard. I really hope, and I even think it can happen - the ultimate one. Ministers and ministers. Politicians have talked about new practices, compromises, transnational reconciliations - that this step can be taken now, so that not all such cases can be brought into the future, but we here demonstrate that it is possible to do so. A mutual decision can be made on a good subject. Now we take part in the memory to make changes in child development and growth. The chapter 4 of the greater section also suggests payment in the high schools and extending the provisional directives to allow increased payment on high school students. According to the current law, the collection of materials is not allowed for subjects provided by students under one - sided decision of school, such as in the duties of training courses. However, it is permitted to collect the material provided by the school if it is of benefit or special use, such as by means of items that students practice in free choice. It's in the law. But, hey. A more comprehensive part suggests that higher rates may be paid by students of the study. After the collapse of 2009, when we were here in a time of hope, this preliminary change was made. This was postponed, this law in high school, because the government's funds were so bad. The Matrix had approved this 2008, but then we too were in good health, or thought so, did not see, many of us collapsed, but had agreed that, of course, not to take so much money and bring it to students, but to the school itself should carry it, and government contributions should come to it. I'm opposed to extending this preliminary principle now that we're back in good health and we're at the top of the pace. Why, at a high level of public attendance. Governments in education, where professional education is particularly to be emphasised, should suggest and agree that students in the field pay much of the material they need to study? Is it a means of high education and professional education? V.E.G. The minister of finance spoke about it, in his earlier talk in special discussions about poverty, that one of the important things to improve people's positions and ensures that everyone has the same opportunity is that education is completely independent of the economy. A respectable president. I suggest that we follow those words to the highest degree. Financial Ministers leave and do not put any special spells on students, the few who choose to be a student in the country, but will stick to the 2008 high school law that had been very much discussed with the very people at school, with stakeholders, with all kinds of associates and trades. The conclusion was: If it is necessary for the student to get through the study, this material, the government should pay it rather than the student himself. I want to stick with it. Because now more good is back, and we don't need provisional regulations set in the middle of a financial breakdown.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u5	A respectable president. Hv. A senator knows I agree with her, and I myself sign the committee opinion along with others. But, hey. A senator mentioned work practices, new tactics, new politics, and all that. I'm sure that's what they talked about from the beginning of the Polish, I think it's likely. Or at least as long as I remember. I made a move to figure out; if we expect those who sign the committee opinion, it's the Resurrection, the People's Party, the Piratars, the Controversity, and the Central Party. That's 28 people. That's not much of it. On the other hand, the 28 plus party of the left movement is ◯ green supply of 39 people. I would have thought, on a normal year trip, that there was quite more to this change in child reform. I believe, however, that since I am just so older than two times in the General Assembly, this proposal will probably be made if you see it, i.e. if nothing new happens all of a sudden. If you don't suddenly get some new job away from the board. After the vote on the bandor and the 2. Money: Why is it this way? Why is that? There must be more to these changes than the classes that sign and the classes in control. An advance would be included in this too, I'd guess, without me wanting to make them opinions. Hv. A senator has quite a lot more experience than I do in these matters, especially as a minister in his day. How can we work out suggestions that must be more important at the Council while being with a majority government in which the proposals of the smaller parts are automatically eliminated?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u6	Mr. President. We've been through two discussions about the bandworm and the budget. The smaller part has presented a lot of changes that everyone was cut down to. The majority of the items provided a lot of change proposals, not all of them innuendo. They were all accepted, and most were accepted, in fact, with the support of the minority. It is not that the lesser part, now at the council, automatically votes against the proposals of the greater part. We'll make an estimate of each suggestion. Of course, the same should happen on the other side. In my speech earlier, I said that I was still hoping that at least the child settlements would be taken into consideration by the directors. And I still hope that's what happens. Not only because this government has spoken specifically of compromises - which I thought were compromises between government and government opposition, but it may have been that they were merely talking about compromises within the government and that there is more than enough work to be done. But I still hope that men will get together, for today is not yet in the evening, and in the morning we will vote for these suggestions. Even if it was only about half of it, I'd be happy because there are people in the community who are in need of this support. And they should not be sent to negotiate child support negotiations to make up their own children's settlements. Is that real? Administrators sending people $300,000. in a month to make up for minor compensations? [[The president calls.]] They may expect less pay raise in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u7	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm surprised, because I know that the government right now is a good people who want to be well and who's in politics with integrity. I know for sure. I can't always try to convince everyone else about it, but I know for sure. That's why I find this so interesting. Like what? A senator did not say that the smaller part is automatically opposed to the greater part's proposals when we vote for a change proposal. But it just doesn't make any sense that the rest of the thing votes against my share's proposals. I don't know exactly how much answers I can squeeze into this chamber, but I think it's because of that, and this is just a hypothesis, that the government would have a vision. The vision leads to a conclusion, says the rest of the treasure, or something like that of the greater part, and wants to keep that view. Everything that changes that vision is dangerous. That's all I can think of if I try to be as understanding to this amazing behavior as I possibly can. But then it also tells me that our work is missing somewhere. If we have good people in power who want to do well, if we have more money for the child's reform at least, and the proposal for interest that I think must be, then obviously something is wrong with the way we work the budget, the way we do these suggestions. I'm just talking about Congress and the procedure here. I don't think that a good or new job plan or more consultation with a government opposition is in some positive minds for individuals in a position of government. That won't do. It's not the mind that counts in politics, it's the work that counts. I don't know exactly what answers I think I can squeeze out here at the Hall and I don't necessarily expect them to be. A senator will answer, but it's surprising to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u8	Mr. President. It is some culture that comes from having strong majority governments. They don't have to make a deal. The Ministry and Government are stronger in the majority governments, with a good share in the council. Minor governments need to talk their way through things, negotiate, and relax. But the majority of governments can just say, "Hey, we're here with more things, and we're in charge. I don't care if they're good suggestions. And fuck who the need is. We love it, but we're just not going to do it now, maybe later. I want to make comments to that excuse, I'll let me say, okay? Councilmen I thought were part of the discussion of poverty here today regarding the reasons why no more has been done and why there is no more to be done about the budget. The answer was that there was not enough time. I'm here with the Commission opinion of more of the legal committee. There are all kinds of cases, big and small, that had a good time to work and change. But childhood status is known to us. And then I testify again in the discussion of poverty earlier today: There are diagnostics, there is an entire welfare department that has already proposed, and then there are the dissensions of UNICEF that Hauspicab has come to be, and God knows what. We know it all from the south. It shouldn't be for us to say, "Hey, listen, we're not going to let any child damage go far below Iceland's minimum wage. No. We won't. Let's not let that happen. It should be easy, and to press the yes-button when we vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u9	A respectable president. I recommend two adjustments to the so - called bandorm, a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2018. They're on it. 103 and 107. First case in two. 103 is a matter of great importance to the International Habitat Association, and perhaps more, but the goal of a change, which in itself, is very simple, is to correct errors that seem to have occurred in the sentence of law No. 167/2010, on terms of terms of terms of government, more specifically set up c- team 6. Their law. The provision included the new provision of the XL number, probably 40, to be added temporarily to the No. 90/2003, on income taxes, in the 2010 Supreme Court of Iceland on the unsaturable value of loans. The directive assumed that interest determined on credit would be due to overpaying a successful loan would not be considered taxable and, as a result, will be free of income taxes, i.e. capital tax. For some reason, the duration of this provision was limited to the income age of 2010 and 2011, but it has been followed by a higher number of decisions that have led to further correction and discontinuation, or reimbursement, and as a result, there have been many delays in the final resolutions of such cases in some cases. At the same time, there are still unsolved applications of the successful loans and there are many controversies still to be treated by the courts and administration committees at the administrative level. As a result, on June 16, 2010, the expiration period of such rock - mass was dated to eight years from June 16, 2010, using the law of No. 38/2014, change of law No. 38/2001, interest and insurance. Therefore, if agreement and equality are observed against taxpayers, it is necessary to extend the time of the specified provision of interest from such contributions from fiscal tax. So here it is suggested that the dramatic change to limit the duration of the law, to bind it to the two previous years, will be dropped, and will be untimely, for which there is no need for such restrictions, nor whether the final resolution of all such events will be accomplished. It is also suggested that, in cases where interest rates of such remuneration have been taxed on the basis of a law on fiscal taxes, they be corrected by reimbursement under legal requirements. 29/1995, on reimbursement and payment. This is a clean agreement, but the matter is correction, a type of legal error seems to have occurred in 2010. A respectable president. The rest of the matter is on hold. 107. It is primarily about the affairs of disability. The core point of the change is that the cost of pensions is updating, and I focus on the price of ◯ cost, which cannot be paid or added in some other way to a pensioner who cannot support himself without it, i.e. The supplements, and here reference is given to social assistance laws, No. 99/2007, as well as a supplement to the movement of sensibilities between sensibilities of old or microenergy donors and microenergy sponsors for car management, with reference to the same social assistance legislation, that these special payments will be restricted under the tax laws on income taxes, No. 90/2003. The fees are due to expenses that have been estimated by the local authorities. It is unnatural that payment on such costs is taxed as income. I'm going to take a little more attention to this matter and start by saying that this is a matter that has been raised and emphasized by the Institute of Environment. Thus, most of the compensation, support, and other payments intended to meet special costs, such as motor inhibition, drug costs, and other such factors, are recognized as income and tax collections, on the basis of a law on income taxes. The tax obligations have a chain reaction in terms of paying, which are due to the costs that have been estimated by the right sources, in accordance with the laws on social security, such as micro-piercing, and the elderly begin to reduce and eliminate the impairments. They pay on expenses cause a deterioration in other benefits that are paid according to the requirements of these laws. These include housing benefits, special housing support, alimony, child support, and so on. Let us take a closer look at what is involved in the term "carriage. " She is physically impaired or can work for the sake of illness, disability, or accidents. You can refer to this relationship, e.g. To Section 5. Pondering, No. 50/1993. Microenergy pension is intended to improve the loss of pay due to reduced ability to work. Microenergy pensions and income insurance are in accordance with the Social Security Act, which has been linked to reduced labour capacity due to reduced energy efficiency. On the other hand, the amount received by an individual is based on law No. 99/2007, social assistance, everything else. These are not in terms of pay or compensation for loss of salary due to decreased energy but are intended to be met by a person who has special expenses on the basis of specific circumstances. We came to realize that by improving, strengthening, and other types of payment to cover the costs of disease, disability, or special circumstances, as specified, tax obligations are available to those whom they receive at first only more than 60% of the money they have been valued needed to cover the cost they have already received. It is proper to correct the chain - reaction of this taxation, to look at it as if it were income rather than pay to cover expenses. These payments are calculated as income, reduce housing benefits, special housing support, child support. Of course, this is especially true of a person's low income. Consider these improvements. They fall into two main categories, one on the one side of the 1st. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007. What's there? It is as follows: It is the cost of care care paid by a household or other government officials; it is the cost of medical or medical bills and the cost of purchases for headphones that do not pay health insurance; it is a rent - rent fee that goes outside the rent, it is the cost of saving in nursing homes, institutions and clinics, as well as in unions and clinics that have been hired by the Ministry or run similar activities, and at the time, it is considered to be an electrical cost for oxygen use. We're talking about special support on the basis of social assistance laws, No. 99/2003, due to the factors that have been attributed here, are considered as income and taxable as such, and have the chain effect that the individual is impaired in the back and for the support he receives only the right members and experts have considered it. Then, of course, you can ask, " How much would this cost? ' We talked earlier today about poverty in Iceland. There may be a number of laws that have led to a better outcome, just to work out the purpose of eliminating poverty in Iceland that is not to be passed on in this vast, prosperous land. In fact, according to information I have from the National Institute of Environment and from a letter that has been sent to several members of the Parliament, including members of the Council's Fund, tax pay obtained from tax pay from the tax pay of the kind that I listed to five terms 46 million. K. Will government funds be able to remember when people are involved in what they need in a way that can be understood; oxygen filters; electrical expenses because of exposure to oxygen; hearing aids; other such things? Because of the ability to move, it is stated in the Treaty's letter to pay a income tax due to that point in 2016, of course, that was the year I was referring to when I mentioned 46 million. Just before, we studied 229 million. K. This is not a huge sum of money in the business of state funds, a respectable president. This is a true justice and a great opportunity for those who want to oppose the poverty of the land to support this issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Before he opened his talk, I was convinced of the second adjustment, end up with an importer and thank you for the opportunity to be there. In some way, I feel more and more grateful for the fact that a group of people has made it to the council because their focus on these matters is very valuable to me. The group continues to point to things that may be more familiar with the radar of other categories that do not specialize in this particular group of subjects despite having enough interest but never having time and being the way it is, never enough at all. I wondered about the other adjustment proposal, i.e. The person who shows up on the subject. 103 - and I thank the senator on the way to mention the number, it helps people to look it up online - but there the change is, if I understand it correctly, that when the loans are corrected, the tax bills won't be paid as income, capital gains. My question is simply: Is this change, especially the b-part of the material adjustment proposal, thought again and again? I think something important is that it comes out. As is often true in these financial, bank, interest and tax matters, which people fantasize about having over and over again, but that can't be back again, both because of law and because sometimes it isn't fair. People are now supposed to be able to expect what they're doing, that would be nice to know what they're doing by law. In short, the question is: Is the b-party thought over again so that people who got their case judged in 2012, 2013, 2014, and up to 2017 would benefit from these specific changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u11	A respectable president. I forgot to guess that if you'd like to join me on the motion on the threshing floor, you'd be there. 107 is a dog. The members of Sæland Göndand, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. Now, about the other thing, there's a question here. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and I want to take this opportunity to explain it a little bit. In other words, it is this requirement, which appears to have been a sort of failure to legalize, that growth that would be determined on credit due to overpaying the loan he has received back, because interest is due to the fact that they would not qualify for taxable capital gains. About the other question. A senator may not have made this clear in his motion, but my understanding is that by accepting this proposal, there would be such a requirement for correction according to the law on reimbursed taxes and pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to admit, it puts me in a tiny butthole in terms of supporting this case. I'm actually on top of it. I just agree with what. Senator. This must be a mistake. People can't really talk, they've been trying to make it work, like what. A senator describes it as working. It must be some kind of handman at least, considering my understanding of the case so far. I think it's important to get it straight before we vote on this whether it's thinking over again or not, even whatever the outcome may be. I think it's important that people know in advance when we vote here. As I say, in a quick manner, I would vote with this matter, but I would love to know if it would be repeated and if it would be possible to have it overtime. It may be possible to do this again, based on some kind of rights there. But when I think about it out loud, I think of something else that could fully justify the possibility of it being over and over again. But I feel uncomfortable not knowing for sure for myself whether it is above my head or if the suggestion would include it. However, I would like to state that members of the Parliament have excessive belief in so - called legal evidence, which is part of a law. It's not quite like that. It is important that, at the vote, - I would propose to the messenger of this transition that he would do his will in this regard so that if this should be agreed and the case of doubt, the lawgiver's will would be clear, i.e. When we vote on this, which I expect to be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u13	A respectable president. It is now simply so in human society that, of course, it can be for less reason than that there are facts. Then there would be courts to decide. I would like the courts to have a demonstration from the messenger of this proposal from the General Assembly that it was his understanding, as I said earlier, that those in this position were required to have been required to make money taxes on growths that had developed in this way, to reimburse such overcrowded taxes, no. 29/1995, on reimbursement and payment. Otherwise, I'd like to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson for very good words that fell here on his part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u14	A respectable president. I'm one of the movers. Change of motion on the deck. 107. In this context, I would like to point out that the social security law is very flawed, and one of the more ugly things in this faulty legislation is this very matter. How could we possibly, with one hand and tear it away with the other, reach out for some kind of medicine, car strength, gas strength, or some strength? What is the worst part of this is how it's done. This is paid out at once every month, but retraced on the great day of July 1 every year. People don't see what's being cut out there, they'll only get one package on this: now you're reduced to this amount. We're talking about some people with 196 you're with. K. per month. I know from my own experience that it's strange to get that message on July 1 - now to take from you 10, 20, 30 yous. K. every month through the year. It is not enough that you may need medicines needed to keep you alive, no, you're going to tighten your belt because you lost that strength. And then we have kids. Not only is this strength taxed but it also damages the child's welfare and housing. I just ask, "How in the world does the World Council think of making laws like this and letting it go? " We're talking pennies in the context of this cost a fortune, but a lot of money for those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u15	A respectable president. I think that's what. A senator comes directly to the core of the matter when he deals with this form of taxation as a means of subsidence what is inherently just payment, support payment, on the part of society as a result of the cost of an individual who is involved in impaired energy, lack of working ability. Also, I allow me to say that the senator comes to the core of the matter as he deals with the chain effect this way produces. By counting these payments as earnings, all the engines of the system begin to skim through the distance, through the decline, and through this mindless mechanism all together as necessary as it is necessary, a respectable president, to be torn up by the roots and all as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u16	A respectable president. You see, that's the point, that strength. I want an example of the gas tank. I had a gas scholarship like that. That's 15 of you. K. 5 you. K. In taxes, I'm ten. K. left. Then these 10 stars are cut off. K. Any benefits if I get them somewhere else. This is what is the problem because we are dealing with the cost of sickness and disability. At the same time, we're like... ... witha sports scholarship from unions, tax-free, which is cool, it's just great. But how can you say to someone who gets the strength of medicine to stay alive: No, we're going to pay it back and then use it to reduce some other compensation, even on behalf of your children. We were talking about poor things earlier. I think it's one of the cores of putting people in poverty traps. It's long since it's time to take all these laws and revise them from the bottom of the earth. As I say, the system would have to be typed, and it would have to start completely over again if we want to have human rights and follow a constitution, because it clearly states that it should be provided for those who have disability, and particularly to make sure that children do not suffer a lack. If we're going to keep these things inside, chain-based reductions in vital things and taxes, and we're on the wrong track. I hope we accept this and take it away from here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u17	A respectable president. It is like so many other things that keeping our thinking clear and clean is essential. What I want to say is what I want to say. A senator is making a perfectly clear distinction like I traced into my story talk. In view of the pay they pay, they are expected to improve the loss of pay due to reduced energy and loss of job capacity. On the other hand, the pay the person receives on the basis of social assistance laws, the improvements we've been talking about, on the other hand, by services such as housing, hearing equipment, electrical use by oxygen, etc. and, on the other hand, because of motor vehicle management, especially for motorized people, it does not work in terms of pay. This is the community's support of those who are truly in need of it and who have been regarded by officials who are responsible for their need of it. Viewing this as a income does not seem to make any sense. It's an example of why. A senator made this clear in a very clear way, so each individual can be identified.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u18	A respectable president. I'm just gonna go over the existing adjustments. Then I'm going to hold a short, professional fistula and lack of it. In fact, first I'd like to mention that I myself am on the committee list of my section, but there are two changes in the leading party, one in interest of interest, and the price paid for medical expenses. The majority opinion, the first part, is suggested for the 3rd mg team. 57st. b in the income tax Act, the law code, shall be postponed, the execution shall be postponed, she shall be taken out. The idea was this, or at least this opinion was established, and it has become highly established in many places, in opposition to the EU. However, this has not been mentioned by the ESA on its own, so it is not likely to result in any number of problems, at least not immediately. But these seem very clear to people, so they were suggested that this be removed and that the change would take effect at the end of the year. The aim, in itself, is to prevent the thin self-imbursement, if I understand correctly, but this also prevents the legal loans of a mother's company to a national subsidiary. There is no tax gain from it, it is only a business economic advantage because a large unit borrows certain terms and then loans to a daughter's company. It's simply, as far as I understand best, it's about borrowing between granddaughters and motherhood, not taxes. On the way, however, there is a Regulation which reminds me of the name BRD, which is to handle all these matters. So the majority suggest that the removal of this law be postponed. Then another law code, which certainly comes from the EEA, will likely be in accordance with the agreement, will accept the purpose of this law. It is not much more than that, except that it is a good attempt or exercise in Congress and law to exploit only income tax laws. There are 57 provisional regulations in the income tax laws. When I say "B" 3 mg. Fifty-seven. b I'm not talking about anything particularly complicated with income tax laws, it's huge. It was a great adventure to go out in this particular case, although, in the end, I have reached the high goal of getting to the bottom of what it all meant. I think I've achieved that goal, anyway, well enough to be able to agree with this and vote with the adjustment proposal. The proposal in the Committee's list for extending high school reimbursement rights, which in itself is a noble goal. For example, advanced schools that teach industry often need to include material in these articles. The law allowed them to charge some fees, but in 2009, when this so - called collapse came to be, a provisional law was set that gave them additional legal rights. This was done on grounds of the collapse. It's not a crash. On the contrary, we are now at the same time at what seems to be no disagreement on the top of the economy. There are not many people in this room or even outside who expect economic things to be much better in Iceland than right now. At least the economic crisis is likely to go no further than that. She might stand in place, hopefully, but also go downstairs. In any case, there is a basis for this provisional principle with a smile. Talk about criteria failure. There is no need to keep this law any longer. In the review of the Committee, we asked what was the price of simply to stop extending this provision and finance the sale from a government fund, as the principle of the law suggests, if there is no consideration for the provisional principle now proposed to be extended. The number we got was 300 million. It was pretty clear. I specifically asked if it was just so that if we hit 300 million into this, the problem would go away and my understanding was that it was. So I quickly e - mailed a member of our council to a financial committee and suggested that we prepare it. We make it a point to make adjustments in our budgets that increase the cost of high school money to cover these purchases. Then we will not have to extend that law. That's why I'm against it. I want the law to stand as the law decided at its time that it should be and only temporarily, and has temporarily decided for eight years, to reroute what the General decided at the time. I find it unnatural, by nature, to be always extending some preliminary law simply because the Council does not seem to be able to reach a conclusion. If members of Congress want this to be so that this provision will be permanent, they should suggest it. I'd vote against that. But I think it's better than that we're always putting so much time on temporary rules when we could talk about what it is. We don't plan enough on the content of the provisional principle ourselves, I think, because that is a provisional principle. The treatment is always so much of this, it's going to take a lot of time for the discussion, and it's wasting my time. I'm not going to have much more to say about it. The mention sheet of my section suggests changes in the paediatric population, increases in them, so they do not begin to cut far below the minimum, which is a natural, responsored position. I support them, of course, for I am part of the smaller part. Hv. Harðardóttir This was done earlier in a talk. Then there is also an proposal for growth, which, of course, I also support as part of the minority. On this occasion, I can't help it if I just talk about how we're doing something different here. I only mentioned it in front of someone else. A senator, but he wants to do it thoroughly. At the Council, people watch and expect us here to reason with one another, to argue, to offer evidence, suggestions, and ideas, and to vote for suggestions based on our convictions - in fact, usually because of a very serious misunderstanding at 48 C.E. The constitution, but it's another story. I'll join them later. But that's the least of our expectations, the expectations of the Generals are that we vote according to our convictions. And if I count together, as I mentioned earlier, the council members that stand at or support the minority opinion that shows changes in child development and child support, and adds to the left movement, I'll have 39 members of the 62th. That's a lot more than that. I've been in a government memory section when there was a 38-man government, and that's a decent part of it. Thirty-nine people are fined a lot more at the Council. So I would have thought this suggestion would go through. I am absolutely convinced that a lot of people watching the World Council don't understand. I'm afraid to say that because I don't understand everything. I have a theory about why it's like this. It tells itself it's ridiculous. It tells itself that our treatment of budget and alliances and proposals and votes and the dink between much and smaller parts is somehow broken. There's something wrong with the system we're using here. I think it crystals so clear when there must be more to this proposal. I can't believe it. What is that? We've had a lot of complaints and rights about the lack of time here. But it does not explain this case because the suggestion is so clear and simple. She's logical, priced. It's known how much this cost, known it's not a new discussion. Child support is not a new discussion. It is not surprising to see a change in child repairs. The only surprise is that they do not support the change. Why not? Is it because the left movement has a green supply filled with people who don't want it? No, I don't think so. I think it's because this culture and evolution has occurred at the Council that the votes are more about the political reality of maintaining governments than on the issues itself. I suggest that's the problem. This is totally out of harmony with the expectations of the city and not in any way with what we expect. When we first make an offer, the senators will take us for the first time. For the first time, we all went into the open. I am convinced that we were all zealous and did not intend to become like the rest of the senators. It remains that we are members of Congress. We are now the other senators for those who volunteer, and we are going to show us how to do things. When we show them how we do things like this, I feel that it reduces the respect of the Generals. I feel that it reduces belief in the Council and feels it's wrong. I don't think the Council should work like this. There are many things to add to this process, but I feel that this is one of the most clear examples of its need. There are a lot of people at the High Council who like it, perhaps wish the lesser part spoke less. And the smaller part may wish that the management part had less power factor, and it would prefer less control over the smaller parts. There are all kinds of wishes like this. But I think it crystals in this that the decision process that we live in, we work on, is somehow broken. That's very serious to me. We're here to handle the government's finances. I can only suggest that this is part of the Minister's Department. Now I may go to the old hymns that some people know, which is an abomination to the majority governments. Just to be clear, it means being a minority government doesn't mean it's the least part of it. The big part always controls. It's the nature of democracy, whether you like it better or worse. But communication and the mattresses between the government and the Generals today, because we are always or almost always with the majority governments, the vote here is about maintaining the executive authority, which is not our first role. Our first role is to make good laws. For example, when we have what appears to be 39 more things. That's the big part to rule. Isn't it? I think so. I've been interested in how different groups end up in government and government position, but when you look at the vote table, you always see this pattern, the line is always a control and a control position, and not, we always go with an independent party, or we always get together with the left green. Why not? Wouldn't that be normal? No, it depends on the operating pattern. It's because of the flaw I'm talking about. So I suggest that we take advantage of this opportunity that we now have - because we get a little bit of peace from terms such as 1, 2, 3 maybe 5◯10 days, something like that, see - and just think about what it is like to see this table as diverse in government cooperation as the same variety of classes in the smaller part of the world, evidently a part of a good proposal that falls because the government must achieve whatever it is at any given time. I suggest this, Mr. Honorable President. And finally, certainly, that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to come in here on a speech chair to thank you. A senator for - I want to allow myself to call it a reflection of power, its division, and its sharing. I can agree with things they said there. Somehow, though, we do not often allow the council to be the marketplace of ideas, where we talk about ideas in advance and back, but, like a boy. A senator pointed out that when people are organized, they are to have opinions automatically. Or, rather, we should be saying that they have a measure of what is appropriate for the greater portion at one time, perhaps even the lesser part. I must say I've been a little disappointed with a new government, not because it's something different from other governments--but perhaps that's why. I thought it was the chance to try to change, but there's no such thing. I don't know why that is. I feel that in many ways the government had been trying to make things right - I don't want to call it an agreement but a hand to cooperate, but that it was hit completely. I don't know why. But these are very good thoughts you had. I think it would be very good if you could change this, but as they often say and don't get original, two in tangos will be needed. And I don't think our partner now is very willing to dance tango.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u20	A respectable president. One thing is that two dances of tango and another, eight dance tangos. We're with eight members of the General Assembly. But of course, I agree with what. Senator. I mean, there's a lot of things that would make things better than people think. For example, I think that it would change more things than people do if ministers were not senators. It seems to be a formality. Then they don't have a vote at the Council. But I think the consequences of such a change would be greater than people think. Another idea that has arose from time to time is that the president of the council, with all due respect for him, does not belong to a government class. It would also change the rabbit a little. These are simple suggestions, which are not complicated and not expensive, contrary to what many might mean. Another thing that I entered in my concluding remarks that I think could only change the shape of the council for the better would be if committee meetings were usually open, of course, with all kinds of conditions. Visitors must feel comfortable with it, so they should say they want to attend a closed meeting if they want to express something they don't want to do public. A meeting would likely be held more often, but the main theme would be open to committees, since cooperation in committees is often very good. It's about what it's like. A senator came on, that the smaller part often votes with the motions of the greater part, I think the difference lies in that the memory part is not trying to keep a government together. I think that's the point of all this. When ambition is the primary objective of maintaining a government together, it overrides the other role that the public requires of us, which is to vote first in line with our convictions and our policies, and what we give to voters in elections. That's what I think is the root cause of the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u21	Mr. President. Yes, those were interesting ideas. Perhaps it is possible to add fine ideas about whether it would be appropriate for us to have a provision in our constitution or in a law that went in a similar direction, such as Norway, where the ideal period is fixed, i.e. Senators just have to do so well and sit in the ideal period. And if there are differences, governments will explode, then the council will have to take matters into its own hands and form a new government, whether it is a majority government or a minority government. There's one thing. Then, in this case, I find that there is something very interesting to consider, that is the source of the members of Congress, a section of which, like Danir, will be less inclined to take part in this case, in order to put an occasional case in national affairs. If the smaller parts seem to be very aggressive in their rights or their affairs, they will be overwhelmed by the fact that he has them in his armory. As far as I know, they will, despite the fact that such provisions are in Denmark, for the complete exception of the fact that such a situation is being made to the nation, although the smaller part has this power, because it works by means of which men try to negotiate and negotiate the issues in order to avoid, so to ask whether it is proper to avoid, to appeal to the people. Let us, though, do so in part in this discussion. But this means that men become more cooperative, more contented at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u22	A respectable president. It now seems that not long ago, a national hearing of a new constitution, sometimes called the proposals of a administrative body, I sometimes call it the proposals of a administrative and monitoring committee because this committee proposed a case based on their proposals at the 141th. For 65th. These suggestions discuss language for the nation. Then 10% of voters will be able to file a case in their national law. That move seems as simple to me as it is. She's a hypocrite, a simple one, and so forth. I see no reason not to do so, though it always seems that the government is afraid of it. Hmm, why would that be? There is also an idea of a third of what is used in Denmark. When I looked it up in my day, it had only once been used, sometime in the 1950's or so. There were three cases, they were all given national fees, and I was told that knowing that it has not been used since because of its lack of influence, they do not all go to national pay. The effect is that people are more careful. They talk more, try to find compromises, so that they do not need to be paid nationally. I completely understand the ambition of politicians not wanting to put things in national terms. But that is why it must be a constitution, i.e. Because politicians don't want to. The people must have this right. I also think that having such a law would be a matter of perpetuating politics in general. Ninety-two. The same suggestions are also different with distrust. They need to be offered as prime minister at the same time as the approved mistrust is agreed, or they must be brought up. It's not quite incomprehensible, but it would certainly alter the way we use power. All of this would be discussed if that fine and important matter were more often discussed here, which it certainly might be. In the last seconds, I'd like to mention that in terms of budgets specifically and bandorm, we don't necessarily need a constitution change to do better work. I think we just need to create some area where the data is combined, of course, in computerized form, so it would be easier for the senators to work together on mutual suggestions. [[The president calls.]] I think it's something we should try, these two classes, and hopefully more next time we discuss the budget, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u23	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2018. I'd like to, like the speakers before me, to advertise on the changed tactics offered by a new government and wonder where they are to be found or when they might be expected to have the foretold change. It surprises you a little bit about these things when they like to -- like a what? These include, well, it's stolen from me at the moment, Oddný new Harðardóttir Hardyddóttir, came to his case -- to a smaller part of his own sit-over and take a material attitude toward them and pays more often than not votes, I think, with various administrative suggestions at any time, and with adjustments made in half of the administrative parts, but the same body seems to pay votes against the changes made by the smaller parts completely catorical, regardless of their content or how the suggestions match such as theirs. policy priorities for individual categories of the majority of them. There must be something to think about. This has been the very subject of this conversation of my share and more of my share of payment, e.g. Money and this bill as part of it. To be honest, that conversation seems to be extremely simple and small. The focus on the majority is being offered, and no matter what less things have to be done, there is really no material discussion. The smallest attempt is not made on the part of the majority of them to take special action or to experiment with the media, or to see if in some way they could be met with the viewpoint they are offering. Here is a discussion including: two co-ordinated changes in memory, which include changes in income targets in children's impairments and further increases in attribute targets for loss of growth. What may be surprising is exactly what has been discussed in the past, that if groups were simply taking a stand on this issue because of their policies and elections, discussion of the importance of the equation, etc., there would be a pretty good part in the council for these changes. But we've already seen at votes that it doesn't seem that it is, at least in part, and I fear we'll see in our votes later that the same is true now, there will not be any desire on the side of the government to be there, and you wonder why. Please refer to situations that are unusual, that are short of time. Perhaps this would be somehow different if we were here in a standard beat of three months or so in a financial discussion. I doubt it. I think these are just the exact same practices that have always been pursued by more things, that there is little or nothing to listen to the demands of the smaller parts except then, and that smaller things will only interrupt or drag down the council's time so that the pressure may be at the point that the government will have some way of meeting them to pay for their payment. Seeing and experiencing such disappointments are a terrible way of doing things. There are no opportunities for a new government, a new administrative body, to change this despite repeated declarations of the contrary. So I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you know, a different kind of work. Well, I hope they'll be back at any rate in the spring if there's no sign of it right now. This must raise a question when discussing the context of these two suggestions, i.e. In terms of growth improvements and child support, particularly the general debate, not only here on the West, but on all the countries, on the importance of the equation, on the importance of the equation in these communities, and on how we really see the harmony between equations and political stability in these same countries. What we see in real life as inequities become much more political unrest, a much greater risk of some kind of political political power coming into power, even extreme political powers. Digging is directly under basics, roots, democracy, if not uniformed at any given time. This is no longer just a matter of any right or left political bitch. This is about how we maintain stability in the long - term political affairs of these countries. Therefore, it is extremely important to take the discussion seriously when these proposals are clearly involved in strengthening the income distribution role of our tax system and is really not doing anything but ensuring that the established support systems of the tax system, i.e. child reforms and improvements, returning the goals they were originally designed to achieve, i.e. to strengthen low - income homes, individuals, and families What has obviously happened in the case of both of these reform groups, so to speak, is that they have been undermined so that they do not achieve the desired objectives. The administrative part has proclaimed and been the highest. In the discussions on these matters, Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities mention several times to revise these systems. That's fine. That's a good thing. The last government put these issues first too. But it won't change the situation next year. It doesn't change the position into a dresser discussion, e.g. in the next year or the extension of contracts, etc. Therefore, you wonder what it is so difficult to settle down and to evaluate the suggestions materially on the part of the smaller parts and more parts, and you find ways to allow them to pass through so that these systems are at least so reasonable in the next year until their revision is complete. There's not much more to ask for. When you look at this situation, you say: "In the first place, this is not a good testimony to the willingness to change your skills, and in the second, it reflects nothing more than the political priorities of the government. It was no problem on the part of the government to suggest for a very short time about After a two - or three - day discussion, an increase of 17 billion from previous budgets submitted here in the fall and from the largest part of the legal committees to provide an additional $3 billion. There was nothing missing of will. There was no problem dealing with the amount of money or the need of that magnitude. These are two suggestions designed to cost about a year. 3 billion bucks. in increasing financial expenditures of the state's funds. To illustrate, on the income side of the budget, there has already been a change, so a proposal was made to extend a car's reserve that costs the financial sum of about $1.5 billion in income and half previously planned rising carbon charges that would have turned in the state's budget of about 2 billion more. So only those two teams would have funded these changes in the memory of the part. So there is no other way to say anything but that this reflects the priorities of the government. The priority is not towards more equations, but it is not to ensure that these systems of the income distribution of the tax system work as they should. What a disappointment that is! And there are other examples of this same priorities. We're dealing with budgets where personal discounts are expected to increase to the rhythm of the index price, but at the same time, the limit between the income taxes increases to the rhythm of the pay sheet. This is an action that on its own will result in a far greater benefit to the wealthier groups than to the less paid. Once again, the focus on increasing the recovery or efficiency of the tax system for income distribution is not seen. In fact, the same can be said of the stated government plan in a government contract that the tax system changes will disappear to reduce the lower level by 1%. It is once again, in reality, returned to those with intermediate income and far - reaching benefits. It would be easier to look at the tax system from the ground, including the tax system. so that a personal discount served better all the earners, reduced the active tax rate of all the largest income groups, and actually produces a double function because it improves the use of our basic systems, such as the disability system and pension or social security. This reduces their need for increase, so to speak. It would be a wise approach and have already been offered suggestions in this case with a stifling personality discount that would be more useful in implementing an instrument rather than watching to maintain an alternative tax system and simply lower the lower level. In fact, I am skeptical when it is proclaimed on the side of the management part that this is an introduction to some debate to lower the lower level, that it is assessed at the other end, i.e. the employment group of the employee. This has been tested previously in a chicken interview, that I think 2015, and was not given much for the plans of the government to lower or defuse the intervening phase as announced there. I think it would work with the employee movement in my part of the council to find much more effective measures in the tax system that would be far more effective in their income. In the end, it's just political priorities. In setting priorities, three groups of directors must bear responsibility, even though you know that there are certain groups of individuals who speak favorably of them. There are other interesting issues here. Changes proposed, e.g. One from the mob and others, which is just about the taxation of the special penalties of the micro-organization system. I can very well agree with the thought that is behind that suggestion. In fact, I think it would have to be examined further and in the overall context, but I think it would be very helpful to take this thought into consideration for a serious matter, see how this obvious fairness might be met, that it is not being taxed by people's special compensations for the cost it truly happens. It could also be handled simply by allowing deduction or tax returns to the tax. However, this would have to be met in some way. This is a obvious fairness, and it may also apply to people who are at work but may be at considerable cost to obtain employment, e.g. due to disability, which could then be tax deduction or reduced income tax pools because of the very costs it is. This is what I think we should take to heart. I'd like to agree at the end of the committee study, more part of the Economic and Business Committee, to the turnoff of interest costs. It's about the maintenance of domestic partnerships, talking about changing completely. I think it's important there to extend this parole temporarily for a further year at least. Obviously, the work that had to be done in the Ministry of finance has not been done to make sure that at least there was as good a solution as possible. This focuses on the funding of the national organisation, which, in the force of the kit, is to try to secure itself as the most efficient funding, have financed even for years or decades on the basis of current legislation, which, of course, must ensure that any changes that may be made best. For this matter, I give the proposal of the greater part to extend this provisional principle, a law of the law of the law, for another year. Again. I really hope that the more part will show this financial talk that he is really ready for some conversation about changing practices, that he is willing to look at what I would say would be a reasonable, reasonable modification proposal for the smaller parts, and then come at least. In some way, they meet the viewpoints expressed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u24	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to take advantage of it. A senator was a minister of the last government, and he was expected to have a bit of a good knowledge of this class, especially in the child welfare process, which I naturally support my mind, i.e. suggest that child support should not be impaired until it has at least reached the minimum wage. Something else is really strange, especially if we are interested in eliminating poverty here. Single - parent families have been found to have more sensitive groups in the community, and they are in great need of child rearing. I experience it in my own skin as a single parent how much it affects my financial situation when these little benefits are cut off. These child benefits should naturally be taken into consideration for the child, this is a child's compensation. They should not be affected on the basis of financial matters. I'd like to ask you why. A senator knows how this is being done in the lands around us. I understand that in some countries these improvements are not impaired. These are benefits that go to people regardless of the economy. I know what you're doing. A senator to the effect that this has had, whether it is only an expense, or is there any savings? How does this come about financially and socially in lands that do not interfere with these improvements? Or am I mistaken in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I am not a walking encyclopedia on the child - reform system of our neighboring countries, but there are a number of ways of doing so. I think it's quite common in the North countries not to interfere with child support. In more countries I know about, income restrictions are not really seen. It is one of the primary objectives of the child - repair system to promote more childbearing potential, to increase fertility, if that is how you might put it. Our child - reforming systems have been criticized for a very vague and adhered to purpose. The World Bank made an assessment of this not long ago. It was, in effect, a prime criticism: If the goal is to encourage children in some way, then it would clearly not be worth less money. However, since there are less income and much of it has been known to me, it is obviously not the purpose of the system. However, if the aim is to provide special support to the most efficient groups, the present system will not have any special objective either. Therefore, it was being encouraged to reevaluate. As a consequence of the change in the memory of the part, the decline in children's benefits begins at income levels far below minimum labour market income. If the system is specifically designed to support the most industrialized, it must be a mistake. It is clear that counter-reviewing this system is important, and its interaction with the tax system is otherwise important. But it is very easy to take action. We know how well these systems work, and we know how they have been impaired over the years, so it is relatively easy to change them here and now and to strengthen them into the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u26	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I would like to be curious about the situation. A senator with regard to child damage and head impairment. Got it. A senator's job is to interfere with child support? Does he think it's the best way to save? Now it's got the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister comes up in a speech chair and makes it very clear that he thinks it is very strange not to judge - there he is not talking about child support but against a cent for disability and pensioners, that those with enough money don't need it. What's the stand? A senator who has restricted his head, perhaps in particular a child's impairment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u27	A respectable president. It is a simple, but at the same time a very complex question. So I'll answer the question, I'm more in favor of less income. I don't think we should have the support system this guy's anointed over all the tequila stakes. I don't think we should have any special supportive measures with people with intermediate income or more. In some way, we need to control our income so that it is not too steep, but at the same time, we need to focus our support primarily on the number of groups most in need. Then there's a question again about our income tax system complete and how it talks to other support measures, such as interest and child support. There I think we can do better with the softening of the income tax in the lower end of the income so that the balance role works better, that this system will get better into the most efficient end than they do today. The tax burden has become relatively high. Of course, it needs to be viewed as a combination. I also think that in this context, we often forget that child support is something we're supporting with children's families. We are no less supportive of children's families, such as the family. by means of growth reforms. There I think we have to look for that today is more supportive of married couples than of single parents. In changing family patterns today, we often see single parents who have to maintain a relatively large home, even both parents in custody. So I think we also need to look to how it works for us and how we can strengthen our support there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u28	A respectable president. A very interesting chapter in a talk. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. I'd rather swaddle. It was about the change proposals and dins, which I, anyway, have experienced around some of the changes in my life. I often feel that when you try to make adjustments, they are set up in a political way, for people usually know that they will either be rejected, which either shows the will of those who are in the smaller parts or is an arrangement that is difficult for someone in the government to refuse. Changes are often used for political purposes, even if they are good. There is an attempt to find a link between these factors; to create a good adjustment proposal that is difficult for the government to reject, while at the same time a good systematic view and, of course, a good political perspective for those who submit it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has found a core in his chapter about the adjustment proposals and the cooperation missing in working the change options with the smaller parts to avoid further exposure to political hairpins and can start talking about the systems that are affected, the effects of the changes in systems rather than politics. We are trapped in a vicious circle that is characterized by a lack of cooperation because we speak less about our systems and our understanding of the systems. I wanted to continue the discussion of changing proposals to see if we could figure out a solution that is, in turn, more cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u29	Mr. President. It's an interesting point by which. Senator. Of course, we are in the special situation now that time is very short. We still have until noon on Sunday, if that's what we're changing. In any case, it would be an indication of the willingness to change the job if a greater part of the council at any time showed the interest of settling down with a smaller section that suggests a good change, if you might say, as many members of the body have agreed on the part but said that it should only be done later. Then you ask: Why not just spit into it like an hour or so to sit over and wonder if we can find some solution that will work out so that such a suggestion could, at least in part, be done now, that some kind of first step or even if space existed? I haven't seen any such will on the part of the greater part, looking for solutions in that direction. You're right. A senator says that in some cases the lesser part may be to throw down proposals for a clean political purpose with no purpose but to have a political offer in the shelter of irresponsibility and trust that the greater part will either make the suggestion, this will not be a problem, and the irresponsibility will be allowed to pass. I have not seen many such suggestions from my share in it now. As far as the two adjustment proposals are concerned, I think they have evidence of a responsible approach. It is moderate, and it is set out in an effort to establish a solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u30	President. Yeah, I totally agree. I was referring to a certain story in this regard, my sense of how the discussion has often been, but not to all, to some. There's a bit of a difference between political and system-based changes and cooperation and such. But we're out of cooperation. Now, both of us have the experience of working together with all classes in order to make adjustments in the legal process. That was exactly how it was last December when there was no government. I have to say, it did pretty well. So I don't understand why it suddenly became so difficult to cooperate with such a government. That's why I scratch a little bit in my head. Yes, there is a lack of time now, but like a guv. A senator points out that it takes just an hour to talk about it. I've never heard of it. I've thought that anything like this has happened in a way other than that there's ideas in council meetings and these ideas are closed. We can't even draw a mutual conclusion. It's only: No, it's over, there's no more to talk about. From experience in the last financial debate, also a why. A senator who was then on a financial committee would be fine if we tried to share our experience with him in this sermon, which I think we are doing exactly now. This is what I feel to be the core of it and the perfect opportunity to show new cooperation and communication skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u31	Mr. President. This is where it gets. A senator for a fun thing. I'd love to talk about this for a very long time. I felt that an effort in the majority of the last financial debates was extremely well received and can be taken into account, as an example, that the Council followed a current financial policy, even though it had been established by another government. It chooses a new government not to do. It would have been quite possible to imagine in that discussion a great sense of irresponsibility taking over and that class groups would have come up with very swollen ideas, but that did not result. I think it worked very well to get an landing in that budget speech in a responsible way. I don't think there's much difference between the conclusions there, e.g. from the bill to budget ablation rate compared to the usual change in management of more than one part at a time. Speaking of changing political landscapes with more categories, etc. I felt that from a year ago, experience shows that minority governments could work very well here with the council. That gives more weight to the council. This means that much more listening to the suggestions of the greater part in this context, if that is a minority government, but isn't that all right? There will then be a broader appeal at the council and a more careful job that is behind rather than some stringed line drawn by more of the time. As we look at how the landscape has changed, our number has increased. Despite wishful thinking that groups of deep - seated roots would receive a stronger vote, they did not become the result, but they further multiplied. Then we need to look to our neighboring countries about how they have worked with such political landscapes, which is often the form of minor governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u32	Mr. President. It is tempting to keep up with conversation. Senators here. You would think that this experience from last year's failure to operate a government when the budget was approved may have sparked the idea when the last government contract was completed so that it might be a great opportunity to try to work more together, more things and smaller things, and therefore it could have been found on the front cover of the Treaty. It soon came, however, that there were primarily words, there were no others. It was totally rejected when it came to discussions about committees and such things. Any proposals received here that have been elected to votes have been rejected by the government class. We now await discussions and votes for further adjustments. You would think, then, that sitting and listening and discussing these adjustments might be interesting to the administrative part. Now, however, there is no minister in the hall. There is no agent for the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, and there is no one representing the greater part of the budget. Yeah, yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir reporting. She was sitting in a sidecar up north, and she's in the hall. There is, however, one. Besides it, there's one general in the hall. It does not promise any real thing when it comes to consultation. It's only been two hours since I read an excellent article after a couple of hours. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér of the Core, who spoke of the years of cooperation. True, it was Latin. [[Take it up to: next year.]] Maybe next year, yeah. But I don't see how working together can be different than talking to people about each other. I may have a misunderstanding. It's another time to accept funding at high speeds. This is a time when the bill is proposed by the majority government of Independence Class, Left Green, and Propulsion. I haven't had much time for that job. That is why we would have had to work together and be there for more work. Of course, you can respect the greater part of it for your own feelings. However, the smaller parts also work under very difficult circumstances. It's hard to call for reviews and complicated information to dive into budgets and economic and business laws. The government is now making virtually easy, but it always points to this financial program that it is going to do in spring and in the light. But when you read the budget and the government contract, there is no strong evidence that anything you can expect is right here. Even more income is being given according to the Mosaic Law covenant, but it is now being yielding, or the same. According to the Community and other groups in the smaller parts, there is a need for a large investment in health and education systems, transport and elsewhere. I'm afraid a small amount of effort is just too effective. There have been many discussions here that the change from the bill of the son of Benedikt Jóhannesson is 2.2%. There can now be no great achievement from a prime minister who spoke in the fall and before elections that we now need radical change. What I think is the most serious thing about this bill is a complete lack of any kind of attendance by those who are in the worst terms and perfect denial when it comes to equalizing the ideals of the people of the land. The multiplicity results of national and foreign studies are not taken into account, demonstrating the inequities of growing and what communities are doing best and that there is an equal basis for a peaceful, dynamic, and productive society. There are too many who live under a crisis. The fact that 5% of Iceland's population has as much possessions as 95%, the rest, just speaks for itself. No one will be satisfied with such an uneven divider of goods. In fact, it would be the most urgent work of the Icelandic government to handle this, to make sure that the wealth created is because hard - working people go out in the morning each day and work late into the evening, and because of the changes we see in technology, they are doing better than they have been. It's mainly disappointing to the Conspiracy that they see no more obvious signs that they sit in a socialist group that speaks of the equation, writes about the equation, in the government, and even in the Ministry of Presidency. I'm just going to talk about child development and growth benefits, because it's the tax system that has been systematically broken down over the past few years under the Independence Party. That's why I thought it was interesting and enjoyable to hear a former social and housing minister, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who spoke in the past discussion of poverty, also mentions that he was found to be critical of the last government, the one he was in. I thought it was magnificent. I completely agree with him. Of course, we should use the tax system to build social stability. Thus, unions have been calling for. You see, they have been tireless in their struggle for the more just and better support of families, including family members. children's and growth reforms. This should now be used as a split into a dresser interview. How sad! The government of the past few years has gone the other way. They have weakened these systems and have brought the tax burden from the richest people to a low income and intermediate income. That sucks, Mr. President. In other words. The entrance of the left green seems to have had a very limited impact on the government budget and on the national tax policy. The independent party is in charge. But he may have this company, because he is faithful to his course. I disagree with her. But there is good reason to congratulate him on having achieved his full success, so to speak. Nor does it mean that this new budget, which will be put forward for us, should change everything. In the Treaty, for example, there is talk of what we owe to taxes, and that is a reward. One percentage of the decline in low income tax level costs 14 billion. In fact, the Independence Party promised the 2nd. Suppose there's been a gap, that's 14 billion. Indeed, they could have been used to improve child - welfare, growth, or otherwise encounter young people and poor people. Walking on the rest of a government fund is not trustworthy. We know that there are not always flowers in Iceland. We experience hills and lows, and we're at the top of the economy right now. Under such circumstances, it is wise to spend large amounts of money and at the same time give in to a large amount of money. In fact, it has been said of the late bat that there is a potential for higher growth and increased inflation. It's a book book book book that I think people might want to listen to. So we in the Union have stressed that tax and tax changes will be made so that there would be real space to restore the health system, to improve schools, to advance transportation and law enforcement, and, above all, to improve the status of those who are always left behind, those who are living in the most difficult terms in the country. For this, the left green, the Conspiracy and others spoke a great deal for elections; social stability and to promote economic stability and increase the social equation. Both groups spoke of it as the best way to improve the standard of living in the country and to promote peace in the workplace. That's not done in this bill. Therefore, it is tempting to quote the Sigurður of Bessason, the Chairman of the Lands I have done before, who claims that the government has no color in welfare, and who is able to use this as a change in collective agreements. He will discuss how the left and equal groups in the North countries react. They immediately suggest such suggestions into the budget. They do not use them as changers to keep their pay low. That's what he calls an old and old-fashioned job with Katrín's government. I think he said at the end that it would suck if professional unions and unions were put in the position of pulling the welfare out of the state and the government. But in order to help the government a little to calm down the middle of social stability, we in the government have presented suggestions for higher child reforms and more growth improvements. It's a national embarrassment, like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Sæland hareland spoke of the past six thousand children suffering in our rich society. And the only thing that finds its way into the government covenant is to make an assessment of the status of these people. As if it's not quite well documented, there's a lot of reports, the welfare department, and the ASSI statistics, and more and more. We know well the ways that we need to go. There is no excuse, and it sucks that it is said in one place only that an emergency operation should immediately be taken to save the problem of sheep farmers, although it may be necessary, on another page it is said to make an assessment of the status of these people. According to the National Association of Iceland, the next year's income loss of child improvement will begin at approximately 241,000 dollars. That is far below the minimum wage for a full-time job in a labour market. I think it's about 280,000 now. and will be taken from May 1st, 2018, 300,000 k. A couple with two children who both make income at the lower quarter limit may then be expected to receive about 3,000 bucks. in a month of child support. Therefore, we feel that there will be an approved change proposal that says there will be no impairment of child care until the minimum wage is established. I can't believe there aren't five senators, left greens especially, who pay these votes. Of course, it would be tempting to try to watch the North American system, the child - reform system, where there are no fewer income restrictions in many places. But it's a long way off. It's a delicate step. This, however, is a new year of effort from the General to these people regarding the lack of complete delinquency. Also, despite the fact that housing costs are relatively high by the earners of the lowest wage, there is no change in growth or housing support. In fact, they do little more than pay housing, day - to - day expenses, and hook together for food. There is no way they can react if something unexpected, people get sick, something gets lost. It's called poverty in Iceland, despite the highest level. A financial minister hasn't responded to that in the past. It's an amazing idea to try to define poverty, as it was in Charles Dickens' time. Social poverty is a huge problem in Iceland. There are an amazing number of children who hurt her deeply. I was going to talk about more here, but there's no time. It's over. But I believe that five senators support this adjustment proposal, and I rely mostly on the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was a speech that you would expect to hear from the divisions of the left movement during the last term, let alone the last. Right away. So a senator gave his talk, which I now agree to most of the time, I suddenly wondered: " What if the same incident occurred? A senator or the person standing here would suddenly land in government, would the compromise change? I can't believe he'd change. That's not entirely because I have such a high opinion of why. A senator whom I have, however, but because of my high regard for them. Councilmen who are now the highest. Ministers but changed their language. It's so weird, it's so weird. I'm looking for an explanation for it these days, and I hope that it will make any progress. I'm concerned that such suggestions have real potential, that there is a real opportunity to change things when you give a good story, have the facts straight, reason on the matter, and speak convincingly. Senator. I feel so sad that these suggestions are evidently premeditated by a vote tomorrow. I wonder if what. A senator made it into a government, which we should hope will ever happen, whether he would conduct his case differently than the highest. Ministers now. What should we as senators who want these adjustments to be offered to the highest degree? A government in the light that we were recently on the same team?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u34	Mr. President. It's not a secret to the highest. During interviews, prime minister has informed him that she tried to get the United States to be joined by the government by the Independence Party. Now I don't know what that fine band would have said. But it didn't go so far, because we thought, based on the chemistry, the pre-election lawsuit, it was a little bit like oil and fire. That would be inconsistency. Now I have a complete understanding that people need to compromise. I'm not going to throw out all these people's ideals. But there can be now. I'll ask them back, what? A senator, for the presentation of the material has come in particular from the Piranha: Don't we need to consider that with a considerable long notice for elections, it's a little preconceived for what kind of people will be working in governments? We know the red block and the blue block in neighboring countries. You can use other colors because of me. But that this is clear and does not get bored in some journey, plan to have a fun party, and end up in some incredible situation that they might later have wanted to get out of going. I think it would be best for everyone. I respect the independent party's viewpoints. But basically I disagree with the group, and I do not readily see how the United States should now cooperate with him. There are a number of reasons besides economics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u35	President. You're right. A senator points out that there is a fundamental difference between being over a head ready to enter a government partnership with an independent party or not. My squad, Piratars, gave it out for elections that we would not go on a government team with him. I thought it was boring how they always asked me, "Don't you want to work with independence men? I said, " Of course we want to work with them, have worked with them many times, and will do it again. ' But it's not a government business. It is a special task that class members must generally agree on how to conduct. This certainly is not the case when it comes to the Independence Party and the Pirates. I've never been a big fan of this saying that people are supposed to know in advance which groups are going to be in the government together. But I'm getting more convinced of it and more. A senator was saying, and many of my group believe this is to be in advance. I consult solutions elsewhere, such as how to interact with the Commission and the legislature authority. But I think it's all in the way. I'll have to ask you first what. A senator mentioned it: If I don't forget, I don't think I were both party members, the Syndicate, and the left movement a green offer, then nothing is to be ruled out in advance? Blessedly, the Conspiracy thereafter excluded that I am holding for completely perplexing reasons. These groups simply do not agree enough to be together in the government. I don't think the Left Green and Independence Party agree enough to be in the government either. That's why I think their manifestation is all these problems. I don't have much else to ask, but I just have to ask. In the next election, a senator will not use himself to work with the Pirates, but perhaps not necessarily with the independent group of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u36	Madam President. I guess we haven't answered that straight as you have. We said, however, that we could not see the basis for these two groups to work together. One of our companies wanted to make 30 billion dollars to cover the 30 billion that we thought would have to spit into the system, but the other said: "We're going to go to 100 billion dollars. the infrastructure but also yield after more than 30 billion years. tax. We didn't see the basis for it to go together. In Iceland, there are very many cases of government exposure. That depends on one or two members of the council. In fact, it's a disaster that this tradition that's created here, everyone just follows the steps it is, leads to maybe two, three, four members of the council in an overwhelming mental crisis. I know it's very unfair to stand here and say, "I believe that five of the left green votes vote for change. I know it's a commitment to be a member of the government community. I understand that. But if you go to a party that starts to dissolve and get boring, you just have to get out of it. Because things will only get worse. I've been to some sort of party I'd like to have run off right away. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u37	Madam President. It is a pleasure to hear a discussion about political honesty, both before and after the election, and how it becomes evident. But I'd like to ask you why. That's not true. That's not what a senator is. With regard to child damages, there is also a difference. As told by ASI about the duel, and as a matter of course. Senator and C.O.B. That this figure should, of course, be considerably higher, i.e. The limit to which the declines begin. On the other hand, there is a figure that should be the lowest possible number, 300 of you. K. which is a minimum wage. There are, of course, some who do part-time and such things but if 300 of you do. K. should be the lowest possible number, provided that people are in the full - time ministry, how does that justification work to aim at numbers lower than they are when working on impairments? I think I know what. A senator would agree with me on this, but it would be nice to wonder why there are many of these defects in our system, in the law, where things do not properly fit, and whether there is no basis for going through all those cases, taking them together, finding out where they are, trying to map them and eliminate them systematically, as if for weeds. It is, in effect, embarrassing to set a minimum and, on the other hand, to aim for a number that is lower than it is when it comes to calculating the degree of impairment and the like.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u38	Madam President. I wholeheartedly agree with the senator that this is very strange. In one word, you negotiate something that is absolutely minimal, and that people are not fully supported by what the State wants to do is, of course, incomprehensible. I'd love to go over all of this. I think it would be a good start to try to coordinate and decide something that humans can call for a living. There are different people doing this, and there are very different kinds of things. I think that would be the beginning. We should go to the work that the Ministry of Health even has. did, agreeing on what people need to do in absolute minimum. Child damage is a little special in that it's probably one of the most precious investments in every society, I'm not talking about now when almost no European nation - I don't remember whether it's in Iceland, Faeroe Islands, Poland, where there's some population growth due to a nice social experience of married couples in their rooms, and natural ones, and in tents and everywhere. Then, of course, there is a transfer. There is a great deal of value involved in our increasing our lives. That's why I don't regret a dollar that's gonna get pedophiles. As a result of me, we met when we can look up at the northern countries and take this a lot less and view it as an honor and support to the people who are doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u39	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Perhaps there is reason to try to map some fundamental principles for everything that is ongoing, as is done in major sciences. Just say, "These are the straggility criteria." It's one of the numbers, just as the other figure may be tax per cent, i.e. a background taxation of prosentan in lower stages, character discount, etc. In this context, it's interesting to me that the government is now suggesting a lower level of income taxation. I think it's so special. How can you tell? A senator sees this assignment, to lower the income tax instead of to raise the person's discount? This has a variable impact on income income income categories. This has been shown many times to show that an increase in personality discount is more important to low income groups than a decrease in tax percentage. It is well - known, just as it is well known as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator pointed to the greater equation in society, the richer they are all. It has been repeatedly shown, both theoretical and by the fact that in the richest communities, there is usually a large equation. Finally, when it comes to political honesty, whether we need to get involved in a discussion about taxation and equations and, in general, being a little clearer in what we mean, what is involved in reducing taxes? Are we talking about lowering the highest income groups, which are in this bill, or do we rather do something else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u40	Madam President. Yes, I've criticized that there are priorities in lowering the low level of income tax, which gives me three times more than the people who should be getting pedophiles and compensations to the full. Many have pointed out that these systems are very efficient production devices. Then, too, these items can be replaced by an increase in personality discount. Let's say that the income tax level is reduced by one percentage, which costs 14 billion, which would surely have been useful to the high child - welfare and growth improvements. As far as honesty goes, I don't think that the greater proportion of government at any given time is a collection of dishonest individuals than a minority of things. I'm not going to give myself the impression that there are political dishonest people in the greater part. All I'm talking about is that this system of ours is bad, which is leading people into cooperation that basically can't settle down. Let's take a look at the tax system. There is a fundamental difference between the independence party's attitude and the left green to the tax system. Self - centered people view it as a means of earning a living for minimal service five, six support in the community while the left people also talk about it as a income balance device. We do not, however, see in the Treaty or the budget or the bandormins the need to use the tax system for balance. It's not my analysis, it's even. Analysis of ASI central management. This is what I don't like. [[The president calls.]] Let's keep people from having bad parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u41	The president wants to say that he considers an agreement that could last longer than a conference or until the meeting is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u42	President. I just want to pick up the thread from earlier. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson spoke of a union and an independent party being like oil and fire. I think he meant oil and water, probably. [[Yeah.]] That's very interesting to me. If I take this illustration a step further, I think the current government cohesion is just like fire and water, zeros out, and actually goes to nothing. At least 100 billion dollars were mentioned. Introductory: I think I've figured out how they're going to do it. In a four-year term, only 25 billion will be needed during the first year of the terms, up to 100 billion. However, a total of 25 billion have now been added, part of which is the focus of governments specifically added to their budget, that they will have a five - year period to distribute these 100 billion, not just four years. So, uh, ha. It's very squeamish here. This adjustment proposal for the bandworm is a few pages long, and it always says: "Instead of the amount of dollars, or in this sentence, it will be that way, or it will be queer to me. " As a result, when you take this out of the side room and try to figure out what the hell's going on, you don't get it. I'd like to remind you again that this has been an approved Congress resolution on computerized Parliamentaries. If it were to be realized, it would be so that although this version, a shorter version of it, the changes would only be displayed, it would be very easy to get the electronic version in full focus, with special changes so that you can easily see what is happening and could read the changes for your benefit, not as it is now. I'd like to mention a speech, please. Senator Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdósdótir, of the council's duties, that we should know the status of our Senate decree, but I miss the very suggestion, especially when I get a Senate document like this in my hands. Only to the economic issues of this issue, which comes from the Economic and Business Committee. As a member of a budget board, I consider the financial factors of the budget bill that I feel will only play into the position we are in. I wanted to draw attention to it - it's just my feeling in recent years, based on information about what we've been told on the committee and all in this brief period of time - that economic forecasts are always presented as very interesting footage. No matter what position the video is in today, we are always in balance after three years or something like that, maybe five. All economic forecasts only produce a specific slope number from the present state to some balance situation. If we have very high economic growth, it will go down to 2.5. If we have very little economic growth, it will go up to 2.5 on some number of years. It seems to be the predictor, it's a simple line, at least this way it will be calculated. I think it's very interesting, statistically and arithmetic, how this can happen. It seems very built-in in our systems that the only stratospheric analysis we receive is simply a request, in some 2.5%. That's how she'll be. It is as if the models are set to make that result. I feel that way, whether it's true or not. The budget bill, which refers to income factors, etc., as discussed in the bandormins, refers to the increase in income. On page 18. 81 people say that higher incomes in 2018 are becoming clearer almost entirely from more taxable sources. That is a very interesting sentence, especially when you turn on the page. 103. It says, by permission of the president: Also, in recent years, the loss of several income institutions makes it a major burden on key taxes, such as decrepitation tax, individual income tax, and insurance bills. This means that as the economy slows down, the income takes a much larger dip than the expenses, with the consequences for the recovery to the worse, and the collection of debt begins again. It's very remarkable to see this at twenty - page intervals, these analyses. This is exactly what has been presented in earlier talks. People are concerned about the income industry as such, regardless of whether it exists in the equation or just the income level; it's not dinamatic, efficient, to bring us through economic swings in an efficient way, to fluctuate the way it should be. The financial bill, as well as the changes in the bandormins, is simply not helping us in the light of the predictions presented in the budgetary bill on increasing inflation and less economic growth. I think the chain reaction will be more than just this simple tilt point toward 2.5%, whether it happens next year or the next year, I can't quite tell you. The models, however, do not have such an enormous variety that I can weigh and weigh the danger of doing so. But a general discussion of this must be related to a lack of time, that cannot be avoided. But it's not only a review but also a change of thought, such as the driving force. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson came in before that. Now that we're trying to make a point, we feel that a good change in proposals, necessary forms, we scratch our heads over how the board works between government and government. I wondered if the government really explodes if a member of the government follows its own convictions and chooses them with or against any suggestions. I understand that they're signing it and they're working with the budget bill that's gonna have to come through. It's necessary, at least, to return the budget bill, not to deny it. That would be a natural catharsis. However, small-change proposals should not cause disaster if, at any rate, a member of the Parliament's government or government standby would support the proposals of more parts or less in return, when it is guaranteed that the budget will pass through. I understand this very well if there are tens of billions of changes - yes, we proposed a 12 billion adjustment in housing support, which was mainly to show what the need is. There is a great need for that subject. It is simply tragic that 12 billion are only a drop in the sea. True, it would have been possible to live up to that, but I completely understand that such a suggestion is refused. It simply looks extreme, but the purpose of it was to show that the problem is much greater. I actually have a favorite section of the budget bill that speaks of inflation and gangs on page 6. 99. It's only part of the income fund and the economics in the near future. Inflation is now to review the criteria set by the National Bank, up to 2.9% in the year 2018,2019. This makes the increase in income due to interest - 25 billion of it actually into prices. The increase in levels is much less than we can use. The chapter describes intervening and inflation as a maximal success, saying that there has been an ongoing failure, in fact, never higher. A high incidence has been achieved to impair certain competitiveness. I get it all right. But here, the tone is only struck by the collective agreements that are about to begin. At low economic rates, the economy can tolerate short-term raises in excess of production growth without significant loss of competitiveness. That's exactly what I'm worried about is what happens, i.e. that there will be collective agreements and that at the same time there will not be any improvement in the environmental impact of the collective agreements on the economy at the same time. A lack of appreciation for the situation can cause problems. It then plays back into the narrow income stocks that we have and these fallen farms; as we slow down in the economy, our income decreases tremendously. From what we read here, there should be an enormous importance in commercial institutions. Adding income stocks, such as it is now, should give them the opportunity to reduce these main income stocks, so that they do not have to live under the same amount of resources that they do. We'll have more instruments to adjust back and forth depending on the economic situation to deal with the economy. But we don't have it. It's not being suggested in the bandorm change or on the budget bill. So I simply have to express my concern for the rest of my life if the action is not to be taken into account only in commercial institutions. At all times, in good economic and annual growth, income and income institutions could be divided; they could divide the losses, when there is a recession in interest, and profit when it is plus in interest. Unfortunately, you don't have enough time to make better diagnostics of these factors, not time to ask about them in the committees and to get notes on these things that are well planned. You should be able to ask back and forth in order to get closer to what might be more realistic. Instead, we're taking it by hand. Given this light review, I have to say, the prospects are not as good as the words in the budget bill tell us. Of course, we often do not want to minimize what we have in our hands; we want to make more of it. It should not be possible to speak up or talk down the other thing, but it is. I would like to ask people to think about this and to take a serious look at the next year; see what you can do to help keep your stability up. Our stability is merely fluctuated by economic growth and economic growth. We've got this kind of stability, a state of stability that runs through economic rhythms. It's quite stable, it's very stable that it happens, which is not necessarily what it's supposed to translate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u43	Madam President. There are not many things in this entire budget that are improving, and especially in the part of what we are discussing here. The work on the Committee has been successful, as it were, unless it has in no way taken into account the changes made from the government position, either in the discussion of this aspect of the budget bill, the discussion of the total budget bill, or at the council's end. This is of particular interest now because a new government made a big difference when she accepted that her work should be the most important thing about the growth of the Generalis. So we've seen in votes about the budget that, no matter how nature they should be, it's all about the government proposals. But because they came from the councils of the government, in every case they were rejected. Of course, you fear that this will be the case. But we have to hope that the government wants to take advantage of the opportunity to show before the year that she's serious about changing the practice and promoting the World Congress. If she keeps up - to - date with all the proposals of government opposition, we must be sure that the government meant something by these statements. The proposals of a government stand have already been considered well, i.e. under the opinion of the administrations or their representatives from the Economic and Business Committee. So I do not intend to spend much time crossing them, but simply the members of the council were urging them to learn what is available, even by diagrams, fine color poles, at least. if this is checked on the Internet. It's all very accessible, clear, understandable, and fair. These are changes that have fallen to make the tax system more reasonable and amazing if the administrative sector is not even going to consider using this opportunity to show that he is serious about promoting the General Assembly. But I'm just gonna go over some additional adjustments that were just coming in. They focus on things that are designed just to allow the government to show that it is ready to cooperate with government opposition. These factors should be of far greater importance than others. This is what I say, Madam President, because governments have already expressed themselves on these exact terms proposed to the legislation. For some reason, however, it seems impossible for the government section to set this up in the relatively short time that would allow us to work on the budget and the so - called bandage we are discussing. But it can still be corrected by putting it in now, accepting these changes that are about changes that I mentioned everyone should be able to agree on but also urgent changes. Of course, there are many things you could get along. Let's hope we do this for the rest of our lives. But these are things that are urgent to change and deal with Icelandic cases that I understood to be one of the priorities of the government, the culture of the country, the sharing of information, the status of the media. We are seeing a discussion about this at the turn of the year that the media is very difficult in many parts of the world, and we are not pressured to live in complete uncertainty for another year, in view of the fact that there seems to be more of a job to do about it. It is suggested that the way the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee himself should deal with the media problems. I think his proposal is excellent. That's what it's all about, including. and especially, that the media do not pay worth extra taxes on the use fees, subscriptions, and reuses in another form. As a result, they are being strengthened, but they are also being more balanced, more reasonable in this market. At the moment, the State Radio, an institution run by the State, is, of course, completely unique. It's taxing. The remuneration of the State Radio, the radio bill, is a tax that flows to the agency, while the other media pay taxes, pay taxes to the government. In order to balance this position, we suggest that we be on the way to which the head of the Economic and Business Committee has arranged. Thus, we agree with the chairman and encourage the immediate action to be taken because there is really no time to take action. The same is true of suggestion that credit be dropped on books. I was very happy to see that the government seems to be in the process of doing this. This was, I'll quite agree, a controversial point in the history of the Government, 20133/42016, but became above as a compromise in changing the tax system due to a reduction, a total decrease, i.e. The decrease in average, as well as the credit rate, was raised on books. Of course, then, the minister of education was not impressed with this change. I wasn't either. The Minister of Education, then, has expressed himself about this in the past. What a joy it is, then, if the present - day government and the highest government! A minister of finance, also a Minister of finance in 2013,2016, concluded that it is right to eliminate the value of books. Well, then it's important to get on with it. Thus, as in the United States, today people are under great protection and therefore need to respond to and help those who live up to this major aspect of Icelandic culture to keep working on that good work. Of course, there is no question about how good the products are, but it is not the government to say about it. Rather, it is to create the circumstances that enable you to continue to add Icelandic culture and continue to be an active source of information in Icelandic languages. So, Madam President, I need to mention what we talked about here at 2nd. which are major tax changes such as increases in fiscal taxes. I seem to be in charge, at least. Part of him, had not realized what was being said in that discussion. For example, considering the declaration of the chairman of the budget board, why? paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, earlier today, reenacted that the increase in income taxation was in order to achieve an increase in terms of taxation regardless of the origin of income. So it seems that, despite a considerable discussion there, both in committees and in the council hall, those who earn the form of paying off their capital taxes but not conventional income taxes pay in no cases 20% taxes. In all cases, the rate of taxes is substantially higher and, in many cases, even most, at least if these changes persist, higher than in those paying conventional revenue taxes. Take, for example, an industrialist who has a business around his job. If the person pays interest from the company, receives pay or income in that form, the company pays 20% of the company's income tax first, and then the fiscal tax falls on top of it. Total taxesprosentan 36%. And after this increase described here: 37.6%. It's like at least a section of the major body has not figured it out, and it's 20% tax, and then the standard income tax. Such comparisons are growing, as we have seen in discussions about the bill but have not yielded to any changes or refinements on the part of the majority. The same is true of me, for example, of an older couple who have owned a house, who sell it, and who intend to earn money from it, or who don't sell the house and rent it, and thus earn money in later years. Not only do they pay 20% taxes because they pay taxes not only for their own interest but they also pay for the benefits. So in either case, whether in the case of someone renting out a house or selling the house and making money to survive, the actual taxation goes very fast over 50%. Of course, this depends on individual circumstances, on growth and inflation, but in most cases the final taxation is not just above 20% but much higher than another income tax. If the will really stood to balance taxation money regardless of its origin, then the administrative issue needs to reevaluate the procedure. Clearly, this suggestion has not fallen for that. Finally, I would like to reiterate what I mentioned at the outset about the importance of showing it now if they are really serious about changing the work at the Council and promoting the Senate's position toward the European Commission. If there is not even a good indication, well - supported indications of government opposition, and if one automatically rejects every form of change if it comes from a government official, then it can be clearer that the government was not serious about promoting the council. Rather, it is hard - pressed. Then, a 50% increase in proposals to the Ministry of Presidency from year to year will be useful because a large part of this increase is intended to keep the government's ministers in line with the Treaty and the government's policies and thereby support the implementation of a case and to run it over the government. We are now waiting for members of the council to stand in opposition, eager to see what will happen. I have a theory about the outcome. I'm not gonna tell her right away. But we are eager to see the outcome. Will the handle of the administrative body receive indications and occasional adjustments in the management field or will the government stand and all be put together? No matter how good the suggestion is, no matter what the need and the fair tip, will all be taken away if it comes from a position of government? We'll see, Madam President, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u44	Madam President. This case is being ripped pretty good at this point. I'm not going to try to extend that discussion. But there are still some points I'd like to come in on. The first point is a calculus and the models we use there. You see, there is only one economic model that exists in the country that is considered useful in some way, but that model has just not shown itself to be particularly accurate. I've talked about it many times here, and indeed also whiskers. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson before, that there must be a more precise economic report to make it possible for a head to be reliable when presenting in an economic forecast made by the bandorm or a financial bill. In fact, it might be said that this economic model or an economist that we need a model that is more transparent and realistic in the results. A certain lack of honesty will occur when we cannot realistically look at the situation. Of course, if you realize that you have received bad information, bad data, or other factors that do not give you the right basis for evaluating the situation, you can look at the situation. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Secretary of finance earlier today said that he did not see the same poverty of children. paritaprevir Sæland Goland described his speech. I know of such judging myself, i.e. about severe poverty in children. I think there's a lot of other guys. Parliaments know similar examples. I find this to be a source of anxiety. Secretary of finance should not know such a thing. This may indicate that there are only other aspects of society that need to be examined or expanded, since poverty in children is indeed there, and changing it is important to fix it. Rather than merely complaining about it, it would obviously be possible to look at how to fix it. Like what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen has repeatedly pointed out that poverty is primarily a sign of poverty when people do not have enough money. Increasing the income of the earners would greatly help repair that situation. Of course, there are many other causes of poverty, and there are social factors and things. On the other hand, if we can try to repair the income of the poorest homes, we will be able to eliminate the social problems along the way. There are some ways. It is these balance routes that have been discussed and included. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Early on this evening, Logi Einarsson says that a personal discount is one of the best equations. It simply leads to an amazingly high starting point in everyone's life. And every dollar that goes up in person's beating returns to all, including the poorest of the people. But to simply lower the tax rate by $ 1 in the low income will result in a decrease of $3.4 or more on the income market. Because often there is a high-to-ten-fold difference between the wages of these groups. It makes me feel that the discount is better off with people. So I'm amazed that the government decides to lower the tax rate rather than to raise the personal discount, as the Pirats suggested in the campaign and have often spoken for, as well as other classes. This is simply the most reasonable way to improve the situation. The other way that's been tore up a considerable amount of money today is child damage. It has suggested that the government's concept of delinquency is initiated at $22,000. More than a hundred and twenty-five thousand. Like today. It would be normal to be in line with minimum wage. If everything were correct, there should be no initial impairments to a number lower than the lowest available number, which are the 300,000 k. It's kind of absurd to work out a different number than the minimum in this context. As a result, I sincerely hope that the governments will be and there will be no more. Members of the government, the greater part, support the reduction of the proposal to make these minor changes in child reform, which will have a considerable impact on the majority of the population. It'll even come. published by ASI's review of this case that child reform has fallen by 23% on the real value of 2008. It is a big difference, and it has had a major impact on people who are less significant. In the case of a 1,500 - year crisis. a change for the most commercial groups in the government's proposals for child reforms for the first child a year, and now I run that number a little bit, that's hardly enough for one hamburger. We can do much better there. Finally, I'd like to ask you a few questions about tax fraud. A government tax manager's plan was set up for up to 80 billion dollars. Every year the possible tax returns because of tax fraud and avoidance. A modification proposal has been made to delay excision at 3 mg. 57st. b, a treat for income taxes, including it was discussed. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of the past, involved in a kind of prohibition that companies who are similar in Iceland and who are part of the same kit may be able to finance loans in common. I can't put anything out on the adjustment proposals of the greater part of this particular point, but I just think it's quite remarkable that there's something we need to discuss. When you look at how you can shut down various types of tax fraud here and there in the law section, it gives evidence that there is no complete approach to try to stop into all the holes. It is certainly very difficult and complicated to pursue various types of tax frauds. It's very varied. Around the world lawyers are working directly to help people cheat on taxes, but there should be some way to try to make a complete package that doesn't always play the product of tax fraud in remote places. I'd like to have a positive change in the context of the expected recording of the BRD European Union Directive trying to go on top of questions about tax fraud and tax evasion and to find ways to eliminate all the main thirst. There may never be a way to cut off all possible avoidances, but if we can possibly get half of the money that goes away, we can do it. According to the head of state tax today, there are 40 billion who might go a long way up to form an increase in child benefits, personality discounts, and generally eliminate the poverty that is a bit of the theme of the Council here at the General Assembly. I don't have anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-28-11.u45	Madam President. I'm sorry about that, it's a little late, but it's been moved so many times before. I have moved it myself several times before the council, during the last term. Many others have moved it before that. It's very simple. Today, salmon fishing is the exception of a valuable tax, which in itself is an insane idea. I guess this happened in 1990 when the governor decided to define his contract as real estate. The same could be said about a hotel room. Of course, some people are renting property when they rent a hotel room, but we do not define it as property, leaving it a worthwhile tax. This is, in effect, that we have a set set of steps that rich people can afford to practice, and they are particularly spared from a valuable supplementation tax, which they are not supposed to be. [[Up front.]] Last time I gave the case, at the 144th leg of law, Bjarni Benediktsson was also the financial minister, before he became prime minister and again minister of finance. It clearly identified the course. The policy of the cost tax is to draw together, as was being done, and unscheduled, thus becoming the most efficient value of the extra tax. So this is not only efficient but also fair. The suggestion is very simple; that which was given at the time, the hole that the governor made for this track, will be removed. [[Up front.]] How much is that? The complete article is some 20 billion, but worth taxation is still being taken from all kinds of service under it. I'm told that I may be about 2 billion, 10% of the whole package, which means that if we accept this proposal and put it under, we'll fill up the tax hole in the tax, in the worth tax, put it under 11%, the lower tax level on a valuable tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax, we'll make it 220 million. We watch that there is a need here and a small amount of money - they decided to put 70 extras in the NA, which was very good, but they needed a little support to make it happen - so why are we giving up 220 million of the values tax that is mostly used by wealthy people? That's the question. The suggestion is to fill this hole.
