ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u1	Madam President. If indicated, a word can be said. paritaprevir Then, the Logi Einarsson created Guð in the beginning of the heavens and the earth. A few days later, he created humans, and on the eighth day, he came up with a financial program. We are here with a financial program that we proudly contribute. You see, there are not many nations who can contribute to a financial program that includes a major payment on debts, debts that are already worthy of envy because they are so low. But we will continue to pay off debt while in every aspect of our lives. Many senators have asked here what kind of community do we want to have in Iceland? What kind of community is the government going to build up? It's a community of culture and art. We want a community of well-being. We want a society where everyone can enjoy themselves, a society where people want to live. And to be with such a community, we must create here conditions so that the Icelanders want to live here, so people want to stay in this country. Has the standard of living always been comparable? Are we paying the same interest as in neighboring lands? No, we won't. One of our main struggles today is to create an environment in which interest rates will be compared to those in foreign lands. How can we do that? Yes, by leaving the Kingdom behind, by showing endurance in that we will return something to the future. We use this extra money to pay off debt, so that our children and grandchildren will not get into debt. Is it a society we like? I think we can all say, "No, that's not what we want. We would like our children, grandchildren, and future generations to look at this and say: "We don't owe money, we don't fall into debt, we can keep building up. What is indicated in this financial program? What plans do we see? We see a new university hospital, a high-tech hospital that will completely alter all medical facilities in this country. It will completely change that this is where we want to work in our future the best and most skilled doctors. They will have the facilities to render the best service possible in this country. We're strengthening the schools. On the contrary, every student in high school is getting stronger each year, rising each year. We are adding in many other areas. In the field of education, we are building the Lands of Iceland, which has been a hole for a long time on the west side of Melum. We're adding culture. We're building for the future, Icelandic theoretical future. Some have said that we have been detracting, but that is certainly not the case. Funds that were approved, as we have considered, when no government was here with a functional share, were added significantly from previous financial laws. More was most likely improved in than ever before. We added 50 billion dollars. ... fromthenewst where I'm from. Still, we are still adding. Where's the extra? Yes, I mentioned a house. We're adding helicopters, we're adding a new Navy. We're adding roads all over the country. But let's just take culture and art, sports and youth. What do we add during this period? 2 billion U.S., at a university level of 3 billion, Hospital service 16 billion, health care outside the hospital 11.5 billion. [[For example, where are people... to secure the ministry?]] Nurse and rehabilitation services 5 billion. One of the 15 billion disabled people and the issues of disability. [[Up front.]] The subject of the elderly 9 billion. All in all, that's 70 billion bucks. I know why. A senator is bored to hear that there are 70 billion dollars on this page. in the well-being of the season on top of a great addition approved here in... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u2	The talk has been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u3	I get it, so I say it again, to what. A senator would hesitate to see that there is an improvement in the government's welfare, progress, and stability of 70 billion dollars. that there is real value in welfare matters. [[Up front.]] But more are being added. We add to the transport process, where we add in the period between 20 to 25 billion from a previous financial program. Indeed, economics is the lack of science in that we never have enough of everything we could want to do. We always have the ultimate quality, but it's our job here to divide the quality between the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u4	...the rich.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u5	I heard it. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson believes it's only the rich who go to the hospital, that's just the rich who enjoy culture, just the rich who go to college. [[Up front.]] Happily, though, it is not. Fortunately, there isn't such a community in this country. A senator thinks. [[Up front.]] That's certainly not the case. It is not just rich people who grow older, all of us who enjoy the benefits of this program. In housing, the government and the ASI are building 2,300 apartments in four years. We lay $3 billion. in a special contribution to this campaign, which is truly important. We share in cooperation with rural society to improve the availability of property, for that is absolutely correct, as is one of the problems in society that housing prices have greatly improved. Only by improving the supply will it be improved. We have to build more. That's how we have to keep going. I'd like to finally say that the discussion over the past two days that I've watched with interest has been successful. I think she's been a subject of business. I like it when it happens. Councilmen make comments to each case party, as well as yesterday when the overall plan was discussed. It is very important that we discuss matters of the sort that we discuss here, as many of them have. The members of the council have rightly pointed out, perhaps the most important discussion we will take, and it is important that we take time to discuss it in a thorough and objective manner. Now, a debate from the Senate Hall is moving to bed. Named the council. I know that it will continue to promote its views. I expect then to present a wide range of viewpoints, just as they have been presented here in the hall. That is so true, it would certainly be fun if we could do much more, could add and add to it. But once again we're changing our quality, and we're so lucky that we can improve in many areas and see very happy times and because this is my best friend. We'll see a bright future for the health minister Óttarr Proppé.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u6	There have been two letters from the Department of Environment and Resources requiring deadlines to provide written answers to thawing. 390 for a multi-mail, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and for a spell query. 405, about oil hunts and occupations in the Dragon Zone, from Hildur Knútsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u7	Madam President. This is a mistake I think we will soon have to correct. A law like this we agreed to do. Environment, the fact that the NTSB is completely unrecognizable to postpone the legal effects of the decision of the Foreign Institute if an individual comes from a so - called secure source, contradicts the European Union's common directive for expulsion of foreigners who live illegally in the country. This prohibition is found in 3 mg. Section 12. The European Directive and we will expect to receive some advice from the European Union as time passes and this second failure, which has been exposed to the legalization of the General Assembly, is about to turn to the rightness of refugees in this country. I'm letting you know now, but it's possible we'd have known sooner if it was. More than any other part would have been involved in calling the Red Cross and the National Law Association of Iceland that had a number of things to say, is wiser than many others, and would have kindly pointed out that this conflict with our international commitments, not just human rights that seem to be trampled on in this institution once a day, but the European directive that we sometimes seem to be trying to follow at this council. I just wanted to make it clear that not only do we allow financial ideals to interfere with the human rights of individuals who are just incorrigible, Madam President, but we are also violating an EU directive that we have introduced into Icelandic rights and are thus accepting illegal laws. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u8	Madam President. I may reiterate the words of my council chairman, please. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðrún Helgadóttir, that we are embarrassed to sit by in this matter, since we will not be able to prevent the error of the past council's past actions of these laws from being corrected. I have to say, however, that if it turns out, and I reiterate what I said yesterday, that this law was used against the rights of marriage, it should be apologized publicly and it was a good idea to represent the nature of the administration we are in seeing the lawgiver's will when it comes to paying expenses for the pensioner who had the rights according to the law, but it was decided to look within the law of the counselgiver's will when it came to allow people who are married to live here on land. It describes the nature of Iceland's administration if it is not officially apologized to them if this law allowed people not to live together in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate what has been presented in the language of the day. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's challenge that there's an alliance with the Piratars that can sit with us in the payment of this case. The changes that take place are for the good and the bad. It's, for example. It's sad to see the highest. A health minister pays this street according to the hard work he did during his last terms in ensuring the rights of foreigners in the country. All I'm saying is that we're sitting by, but we're totally against the wrongs being set, but we're happy, of course, because the lawyer's will is now going to be crystal clear to the eyes of the Foreign Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u10	Today, the previous siege is held. the financial programme of 2018 and 22022 by the Ministers participating in the discussion. More than one hour will be planned for each minister and discussion about his group of lawsuits. Ministers have five minutes for the first time and then two minutes each time. Senators have two last year and later theirs. Those answers will not be allowed. At the end of the discussion, financial and economic ministers and members of all councils will have ten minutes each to complete the discussion. The order of the Ministers shall be: Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Custom and Development, Minister of Justice, Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Foreign Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u11	A respectable president. I would like to express our joy in borrowing a deal on how we were going to conduct this discussion. It's important that the ministers are all here to answer. Well, we're talking, as so many times have it, a five-year group plan. We are here to lock ourselves up, as it were, in the framework of which we feel that it is counterreformable to make arrangements for each category of paintings. For this reason, at the beginning of this discussion, I see myself moved to do so for hours without going to spend on it, making a serious remark that there are two Prime Ministers not responding but here their substitutes to discuss the relevant lawsuits. I expect the surrogates to be well prepared and ready to answer detailed questions about the issues they are taking in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u12	Madam President. I agree with it. Svavarsdóttir Svandís, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, about the money of the state for the next five years is gone, two Prime Ministers away, that it's not an opportunity for us members of the council to ask the relevant ministers a number of questions that arise at the contribution of this Senate resolution of financial schemes for the next five years. It is absolutely unannounced, Madam President, that the members of the Ministers will not be able to attend to discuss this important matter that falls under their department.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u13	A respectable president. I have to come up here and agree with what others have. Senators have told us about the absence of two of the highest levels. Minister in these important discussions. I have to make a note of that. Although it may be acceptable to have a legal explanation. Ministers can't make it today, these are the kinds of cases of that nature - we're talking about the Ministry of Justice and we're talking about the Ministry of State - that I don't care about anything except the substitute for this Supreme Court. Ministers will be prime ministers. Then it could be possible to have meaningful discussions about these topics simply because of the highest degree. The prime minister is to be responsible for all other affairs of the government. I'm very strange, if to be honest, to the highest. Secretary of travel has come to this place, rather than the highest. Minister of Justice, despite any good explanation. I think it would be normal to do that. The prime minister would answer for these lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u14	V.E.G. President. Because of the comments that have been made, regarding the absence of two ministers in the organized discussion today, it is true that it should be noted that when the arrangement was being discussed at the meeting of the council groups during the last Monday, I should be aware that if this arrangement were to be chosen, it would be necessary to bear in mind that one or more ministers might be absent, and so it would be shown by the replacement of the procedure for the minister. So it has already occurred from the beginning that this might happen in this way. The same arrangement has been established when questions to the minister have been agreed on for a discussion of the budget, setting an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u15	Madam President. I just want to agree with what others have. Senators have said regarding absence of the highest order. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. Secretary of state. At the same time, I'd like to point out that although we've had an excellent class yesterday to talk to the highest level. The secretary of finance on the basis of this successful financial strategy, which took time to go through, there are a range of topics that are under the top limit. A minister of finance, who would have been interesting to have the opportunity to take a closer look today. In particular, I'm referring to the economics, databases and information, and then the tax, property, and finance. This was the nature of the case, not the point of yesterday, but the basis for the financial program. Now it would have been nice to also have a place to speak at the highest level. Secretary of finance on these topic areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u16	Madam President. Now financial plans are submitted for the second time. This is quite an extensive publication that tells a story about a major government operation in this country. This is a five - year plan in all areas of state resolution, policy, goals, and goals. At the same time, financial goals are set up for the rest of public management and decrease in debt. Although financial policy has been under way this time, and it seems to who on how the space is divided or created, I quite frankly believe that the new frame we are working on the basis of public financial laws has become a major turning point in the discussion of these matters at the council. Then, first of all, I am referring to the fact that the council has become a direct part of the debate at the formative level of policy development for the next year. We're here in the spring months, setting up the budget for next year, but we're also pulling the line for the years to come. This is what we will do annually in the years to come. Looking back in the history of Congress, it is absolutely clear that we should have taken so much of the steps we have taken with this transformation. So the law works unequivocally on my opinion. They work in recruitment and institutions. We feel that the policies, the criteria set out here, whether in the law itself or in the criteria set out in the schedule, frames up a discussion on these issues. In increasing numbers, we look to where we stand toward the standards we have set. Even if I say that and feel it, e.g. Toward the end of last year's budget and the treatment of the budget bill, there was a considerable change in mental attitude in the General Assembly, which appeared, among other things. in the fact that people were always looking at some purpose of living, and no new spending proposals were made without striving to finance them at the same time, I believe that we are still in our power to break up children's shoes on this course. This whole process will help you to continue to develop in the years that follow. As we understand, there are areas of subject matter that depend on the Ministry of Presidency, in all principle, much different from those in the fauna. During the development of government, we made changes in our sending back to the fauna some projects that had been heard under the Ministry of Presidency. There were e.g. A project that returned to the Ministry of Education and Culture. I can mention, for example, the National Park of the Parliament, then he went to the Environment Ministry, where there are other national parks. I can also refer to the Scientific and Technical Council, which is today saved at the Ministry of Education. When you look at the scene from the financial categories that are found in the budget, even if we can discuss top government and other such things, we do not have a lengthy discussion on the subject. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity here primarily to celebrate the development of the history that we have moved on to a whole new list of new institutions in public finance, that we are here in the spring to discuss financial plans for the next five years. We'll feel it, including. we're here to find our rhythm. I welcome the idea that the Ministers represent responses in the same way as they do in the financial debate for their sectors. Over the years, we are creating an environment with this synopsis proposal to reduce interest. We are going to reduce debt and use lower interest costs to build wood. [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, this will be all in order to increase the stability, stability and stability of the country's households and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u17	President. Thank you very much. Minister for his word at the beginning of this Minister's speech. I want to stop at what he says about the work force and the presence of the council. Certainly, the General at the point was far too far into being involved in the metropolitan intervention of minor projects. When I started with a council, 2007, the World Congress Fund was assigned a billion to do a very small task that is not part of the World Committee of Congress. I can agree that it is important that the Council take a political stand on how large the frames should be, how much political emphasis we want to place on certain lawsuits, but do not necessarily represent small numbers so. These laws were accepted, and at the time, I criticized that, for example, at that time. Not an increase in funding for the Generals to produce the law, but the role of the Generals will be changed. We're discussing financial, financial, financial, and financial policies, since we're not expected to vote for individual teams in the end. My feelings are that the General needs special support for the way we're going to introduce these laws. According to the Constitution, the capital is here. Here we make big decisions without perhaps having sufficient grounds and expertise to handle this role. I also wondered, which is related to the case we voted for earlier, that we have set up financial counsel. It's fine, but what's the backland of the financial council? What specialised care will be provided if we apply, e.g. Together with the money policy committee and the expert assistance she has from the Secret Bank? Then we are to have financial counsel that actually works as an antidote to the money policy so that these two polars speak together and form a foundation for government policy. Some kind of national interest system is missing. [[The president calls.]] Since this financial body has been set up, it has a specialized country. On the other hand, does not the General Assembly and the financial Council have to look for ways to strengthen these mails?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u18	A respectable president. Yes, I can say that it calls for someone to see if we've had enough care for the setting. At the council, you may need to look at yourself and ask yourself: " Is there a need for further funding in the Committee for Economics, e.g. In economists? To what extent should the Senate's space be increased to seek special help? I remember that when I was just elected to a council and had to look beyond the council walls with calculations in connection with a pension matter, I was turned in and told that I would have to be careful because the entire Senate funds that year to look outside the council walls after counseling were less than 3 million a year for all committees, all the committees. However, the question remains, Do we need to keep building strengths on the economic committee field? I'd be supportive of that. I have always spoken of the need to be strong and to welcome a discussion that the council should be well prepared for the commissions to support the Commission. When it comes to the financial council, I think that similar views might be appropriate. We are only following along in this one step at a time. You have to listen to it from inside the financial council. This time it was beginning to call the council early in the process, i.e. before the final planned schedule, to earn time. I note, though, that despite the urgency of the times, I was able to produce quite a bit of extensive and accurate work that I feel has proved to be unambiguous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u19	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister will appear before the Commission for the council. That's my opinion in the light of the views he's supposed to adopt in this matter. If we examine the financial program we are discussing, it will turn the extra funds to the General Assembly, where we can find building a new house. It is not a matter of strengthening the General Assembly. When the government law was accepted, experts went into every Ministry to introduce the law - but not the General. Maybe that's why when a financial policy comes up for Congress, it's forgotten to send it away on a financial and business committee. The Economic and Business Committee has not yet reviewed and evaluated the national grounds for the financial policy we have agreed on. Maybe that's why we're getting a statement into the Economic and Business Committee that when we're here to give a review of the budget, it's just a review, and it's almost a formula for what we're supposed to say as a committee. Of course, we do not. It's a polypolitic document. We have conflicting views about how to raise income, how to develop expenses, and what ratio of consumption should be made. I feel, and it's my feeling, that we're trying to introduce a new process, a long-term thought that everyone's taken over, yet don't have the tools and tools to do it, and it's trying to do it with a quick script. I'm really worried that when we deal with budgets in the fall, which, in fact, have been bound by a financial program - here we both point to. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers in that we're going to take all this for financial purposes. Although we are going to discuss the budget, they are still rigid in the financial programs we are discussing. The work force we're working on right now is everything, and it will have the precedents into the council so that what I would like to see is the decision to strengthen the General Assembly, especially in this field. We are taking up a completely different arrangement. In many years, this arrangement has been introduced by other countries. We do this in the Icelandic way, in a few months. [[The president calls.]] We don't want this to happen because the Council loses its role in a constitution, taking over the government, just because the speed is so high.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u20	A respectable president. It's a bit of a turn-in to make these changes in years. This is either a matter or a matter. Someone could have said that we could have started financial policy and then taken up the financial program in some parts, but I feel that we have been very successful in a short time. We've led to a fundamental change in how we approach it. If we had intended to do this in stages, I would say: " According to the old arrangement, we were not really doing any of these things. I feel that we have set very ambitious goals and have achieved considerable success in a short period of time. We did not accept financial or financial policy until last year, and it was late. Regarding the fact that we have framed budgets for the next year, I want to point out that last of us had a policy and plan, the plan was to look at the year 2017 that we now live, and it was taken up here in the afternoon. From the fact that this plan was established, which was agreed on as unchanged, until the budget was taken, the pay and the pay line changed by tens of billions. If I recall correctly, it seems that there were nearly 30 billion others who went on the expense gate and appeared on the income side because there were some factors that had changed in the meantime. This plan, of course, is the basis for which we are moving today. We'll have a new national programme in spring, probably at the end of May or the beginning of June. Then we'll get a national economy back in the fall, and then all of this will be calculated over again. We are now accepting this discussion, knowing that there are a number of factors that can move on. Regarding the council in particular, I have always stressed the need to listen for calls from the council. I don't know that much emphasis has been placed on this in dealing with the council, but there is a need to be very careful in dealing with councils, courts and the office of the President of Iceland when it comes to the contribution of a financial bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u21	Mr. President. I contacted the health officials of the country yesterday in order to get their response to the financial programs we face. I'd like to hear from the highest. Prime Minister - Is Not It Wrong? - over the government. This is how I have been described by other prime minister and staff in charge, I ask if this is the correct understanding. What kind of foreman is he, then? Where does his responsibilities lie? Does he feel responsible for the execution of the government covenant? Will he take advantage of that? By permission of the president, the government covenant says about health matters: No matter what the economy or social situation, good health and health services will be the priority of the government. A higher standard of health care is a priority. The question, then, is regarding the work management of all of this and the basis for this financial agenda. The officials of the medical institutions I spoke to are concerned about these reasons, that they just aren't right. This has been done in a relatively short time. We know that. However, it has been noted that the site 81, which compares public expenses to the North countries, is spoken of as being 6.9% of GDP in Iceland's seven case expenses, or a lower level of value in the community, and so is Sweden. Iceland has 7.4 but Sweden 6.9. This conflicts with the figures, it is said that this is from OECD, which has been sent to me by health officials from OECD at the same time. There you have only a fundamental failure if this information is not correct. I'm calling for this information, both from the secretary of finance and from the Department of Health. It is very serious if these criteria are being addressed. And then at the end: How could a prime minister explain this and respond to the fact that public spending in the country is spoken of as being relatively higher than in other countries except in health care - why?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u22	A respectable president. This question is first asked about health and welfare policies and whether I will, in the power of the task force, exert myself to declare a plan for action on these issues. I am happy to answer that I will do so in the spirit of the government covenant. We see in the fields below - whether in hospital service, non- Hospital health services, nursing and rehabilitation services or medical products and medical products, etc., these are cases 23 to 26 - that there is an actual increase in these classes. As a result, we have been adding to each of these classes. It is true, however, that much of the increase in the years to come will start building the workers who are supposed to house the operation. But it's a building phase that we have to attack. In recent years, we have invested a lot of money in making new bargains. We have been successful because the discussion has turned off the subject of a medical professional that is not as good as his colleagues and sisters in the North countries. We worked a lot to make better contracts and to keep them suitable people at home in the health system. Now we are faced with the need to place a lot of money on our own, in our real estate. We are proud to be in the hands of a funded plan for that structure. It wasn't always like that. For a long time, it had become empty. But it comes to the point that too little is left to the business itself. If so, I would point out that despite everything, we have been expanding our business in recent years. We are going to continue to add to our business on this schedule, and there are some external limits to how much we can raise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u23	Mr. President. It was called for that we increased the percentage of health - related valuables in the community. That is what 86,000 people in Iceland requested in the largest collection of signatures. And then there are the wrong figures there, the presidents of the National Institutes point out, how the situation is in Iceland compared to the rest of the North countries. Is it the prime minister who should call for this correction? I've already asked that question myself. Does it work if these numbers are incorrectly based on OECD expenses for health care? Is it possible that it is not addressed in some way? How, then, would the prime minister react? The officers are wrong, it's very serious. However, regarding the overall health profile: as in the highest level. One prime minister notes that they are being built for construction, which is good. But then it lowers them again. But in the same period, because of the nation's older age, demand increases. The demand is increasing. It'll cost more than that. As a result, we must use more of the gross domestic product to carry out our ministry. At the same time, the cow drops. The expansive increase in health care in this financial program is the hospital. But they need hospital services and other factors. At the same time, 20% of interest is expected. It is 20% economic growth, the hospital comes in as a cow and then falls back so that we end up with a lower proportion of the country's valuables to the health system. That's what this says. It's the highest. Or am I just mistaken?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u24	A respectable president. With the comparator numbers published in this schedule, I think there's a difference. A senator points out, compared with other comparative numbers, must simply be the basis. People look at it from a different angle of view; something is included, possibly for another, etc. The underlying factors need to be carefully considered. This is an attempt to compare where such comparisons can be made. I've always been a spokesman for these numbers being taken on appropriate notice. We must be able to give more weight to the discussion of how we deal with health issues than just the proportion of national production to the seminary. For example, we do well to ask ourselves: " How do I treat the sheep? What is the outcome of the health system? What's the situation on the list? How long will it take to wait for replacement surgery? How long do heart patients have to wait for the life - saving action they, many of them, have to take? Or cancer patients? What's the situation on the medication? These are the questions we should ask and use as a comparison. Today, the worlds are also changing considerably because we have opened up the possibility of patients who will not be able to get a cure during the next three months of important operations. [[Up front.]] I think we should focus more on this. In terms of the ratio, I see them so that when the construction phase at the Land Hospital is completed, we will be able to get some considerable financial relief that we can, in turn, directly into a service - related factor with great joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u25	A respectable president. I'm going to start this inquiry on what has been discussed here only earlier today, i.e. of this experiment we're doing, i.e. attempting to introduce this process very quickly, and the fact that it may even be considered as if this law were a constitution in that the General set up too much financial power. It is a defect, as it is today - compared to a transparency when you know how the law was - that it is more in fog. I wanted to ask the highest. Whether people in the plot have wondered how to guarantee this. Simply put, when this is the case, you want to see what is about to happen. When you look at the financial program and compare with the ministry, it is not surprising that the presentation of goals and such differences differs. The cost is not always included in the department's goals. Other problems are referred to as funding the problem within the framework. In isolated cases, numbers are presented, but in many cases nothing is available. Which means those who look to this in the community will have no idea what is going on over the next five years, even if that is in the text. That's why it would be a little interesting. Take, for example, the police, violence in Iceland: How to read out on this list that the police are going to resort to violence in Iceland by obtaining money or someone else? It's very hard to read it out of this record. Well, I'm sure this could be evolution, but I just wanted to hear some ideas. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u26	Mr. President. It is absolutely true that this is one of our big opinions, how much we break down the topic areas, and how financial schemes are to be mixed, as well as financial and financial enforcings. Regarding the copy and the budget, for the first time, we saw the need to renew the publication of the copy of the publication following the procedure of the Parliament on the budget. There was an analysis that called for a conversation between the budget and the Ministry of finance, and I have specifically referred to the issues of transportation, whether the copy had been updated correctly. But we're just following the path in this. It's not in itself a formula to calculate how much we're supposed to break down the topic areas, but here's a line we're testing. I think it's done quite well. We're a bit attached to the ministry hearing, but we have a group of lawsuits that hear more than one agency in this program. Regarding the goals presented, it is quite true, and it was discussed with me. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter earlier, that additional funds were assigned to hire staff, to achieve these policies and policy-making, in all departments. We're trying to work here with measurable scales. Since we don't set a special amount of money behind a stated objective, we, in effect, are assuming that what we already have will be prioritised in their interest to the emphasis that the Ministry presents on each occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u27	A respectable president. If you look at the goals of an individual scheme, you will see - if you look at the local public security and security area under the police, the National Guard, and the rest of the United States. - the increase between 2017 and 2018 is 545 million. K. However, since the government has taken a financial policy, and shows up in the plan, 2% per hour, that amount is 480 million. K. We see that it will be very difficult for us to reach our goals within the framework. I mentioned this because there's very little money at the Justice Department. However, at the pro-address and innovation department, this phrase is often used: Will be prioritized within the framework. The same is true there; certain joints are cut off. For example, let's look at the marine road and agricultural department - we had a discussion this morning in unsubstantiated questions about the Food Institute and we know the ongoing need for supplementary funds - with 2% maintenance and improved frames in which the increase is not much more than the maintenance. I ask how they'll see the real growth of these institutions within those five years. How, in fact, will the Ministry really respond, not to shutting down some work? And if, as in some of the topic areas, the projects are clean and smart business of the institutions, but not necessarily a lot of pets or tasks that you detect on a temporary scale, this is a permanent operation, surveillance, monitoring, testing, research? Has the highest. The prime minister is not concerned that at the same time as this is offered a conservativeness in financial policy and financial agenda - the frames seem quite beds, then the maintenance of 2% will cause the exact same organizations a serious problem? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u28	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator's adjustment requirement is often difficult to implement. But I think it's important that it's there, and we always assume that there's a search for advice in all our resources, all institutions, committees and the advice we're going to keep out, to do things more practically. You see a lot of things in your life when you start to look at these things. In recent years we have been working on improved shopping. We can see right away that it is possible to do much better. We're just starting that journey. I could mention your housing issues. There's a lot of changes going on with office space. We know from the Ministry of finance that there the Ministry went into open space much more, with the need for a four-meter per employee to become very close together. Ideas of a new board of directors who would host more than one Ministry and accounts that I have seen there show that we could live and build up a facility and prepare employees of the Council very modern and good conditions in far less square miles than we do today. In some cases, as in the Ministry of Presidency, people in many houses are distributed over a large area. I'm referring to the housing situation as a single factor. Then, as with any other business, there is reason to wonder where else, either in human resources or by moving to a fundless service, to use the technology to save money and potential human life, so that the funds that we are involved in the seminars will be most useful in ensuring the quality of our public service and the competitiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u29	Mr. President. It is enjoyable and beneficial to have a place to speak at the highest level. Prime Minister on several matters. I'd like to ask you a few questions. I hope I have time to get them all away from me. The government's declaration of policy puts it this way: The government will contribute to the development of community infrastructure, transport, health and education systems, and a powerful and competitive business life for citizens all over the country. In view of the recent discussion on the program, I allow myself to ask: How can this possibly be true of the current financial agenda? Does Ministers believe that this five - year financial program responds to the call for 86 thousand U.S. Iceland's Organization for Economics and, in fact, more researchers are targeted at a fixed gang in the period of prophecy. However, the late bank assumes that the crown's continued strength and between 2016 and 2019 would be significantly reduced, or from 179.9 to 15.4. If the expressed predictions of the Society's Penitentiary are being made, there will be an historic success at 2019. Is that not a matter of personal concern? Many are troubled by the successes. Does prime minister open the possibility of a handlining while walking to a decrease or otherwise affecting it? And in what way? Walking tie or other kind of intervention? Green taxes have been proclaimed. What changes in the tax system are based on this strategy? What are the dates in this relationship?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u30	A respectable president. First about the structure and the infrastructure. I'd like to say that there's a very good harmony between what's said in the Constitution and what's in the program. Let us not forget how much was spent in some of these lawsuits by the decision of the Generalis at the end of 2016. It must be taken into account, especially when compared with the previous financial programme, that in the meantime the Parliament had handled the terms of the budget and agreed to financial laws for 2017, with a significant increase in expenses in many of the welfare systems. I'm special about the transport. But it is quite true, and I've made it here before, that it is a very challenging task to try to answer the call on further funding into business and hospital services or other health care services at the same time as we are building a new national hospital with great ambition. Still, we are able to add to these classes of issues. We are also adding billions of them to pharmaceuticals and services, such as in our health care facilities, where we are trying to strengthen our health care facilities as our first stop in the medical system. In addition, I would like to mention that health care, hospitals, health care in general, is not excluded when looking for ways to ensure the maximum use of the funds we have from playing. We could look at the McKinsey report on that subject. I may be able to get into the gangs later, but in the plan, the changes are mainly expected to be in terms of the value tax and the insurance bill. Similarly, we are reducing the use of revenues for older citizens, assuming that professional income costs will be raised. [[The president calls.]] But at this point in the rest of the matter, we do not assume that there will be a lot of tax changes during the term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u31	Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There are many doubts that despite improvement in health care, as well as many other factors, it is sufficient to promote health - care, as before elections were highly recommended. I'm pointing to a community service that's weak and that's going to get into trouble right after next year. All I want to do is make this a matter of man's concern and the possible risk assessment of what might happen in our business dealings with foreign nations if men fail to achieve a good deal with the nation of the United States. Baltrexone has been studied. There are other countries that are considering the development of isolationism and alienization. France. There's agitation. Have people created a scene in this regard if treaties do not work well?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u32	A respectable president. First of all, it's about the pros and cons. I've noticed that most fortune - tellers, markets, and the Navy have more than anticipated the sponsorship of the crown in the years to come, and more likely, than ever. Because tourists will continue to increase. We're in some way reacting to this with ideas of change in merit taxation, but we still do, despite the fact that this change will undoubtedly improve the growth, that it will continue. Otherwise, the gang's role is to adapt to conditions in their country. If it is so true that the New York Times's real experience has moved to such an extent that there is no evidence of anything more in itself than the fact that we are better. There are stronger foundations under Iceland's economy. In comparison with the previous currency, there is a greater value in the United States than there was in the United States alone. That is a particularly positive news. What you need to worry about, however, is if there is some persecution in these materials that leads to our falling victim to the export branches. There is special reason to be concerned that despite the high level of money gains that have taken place in recent years, including because of the promotion of the crown's gangs that have held back prices at the same time as wages have been raised largely, we see little loss of the demand for large increases in pay. The first sign that I see about the second few cycles ahead is that it does not require less pay than it has been in the past few years. As far as I'm concerned with Baltrexit, I say that's where we have to be very protective of our interests. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad the State Department has been working with a special team on that matter. You're absolutely right. A senator tells us that we have a lot of interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u33	A respectable president. Under the Ministry of Education and Culture, there are six issues in the budget. I'm going to run a little more than five of them. The sixth stage, which is the media, is limited to the state radio. It simply follows that the nasal tax is going on every year, and its function will be in a similar way. With regard to the total frame in this, a financial plan allows for expenses in 2018 to be about 97.9 billion dollars. and by the end of the period, in 2022, this will be just under 102 billion bucks. Of course, it is important to have specific warnings on the schedule, whether it involves the fields of topics that are heard under the one or the whole schedule. The forecasting value of the five years in advance in Iceland's finances is very limited to me, to say the least. This should be kept in mind when considering the precise schedule of such events. However, it is obvious that 2018 is being made up of significant improvements in these topic areas. I'll go for a big one. I start with a subject area 18 that focuses on culture, art, sports, and youth, which can be found in the paper on page 5. Twenty-four-nine-five-five-eight. It is the primary objective, under the future language field and should work diligently, simply to promote the position of the Icelandic language in the community. Among the measures to follow are to work and implement an action plan for use in all fields, to create open language technology and to increase the number of grammatical tasks. These plans are to go up to this work in cooperation with both the educational community and the job. The 20th topic field is the high school program on page 20. 263/270 in the report. This is where the basic change has been made at this school stage that it has been cut short for a year. Similarly, natural growth is in a way that does not keep up with what you want. In high school, they reduce their numbers. In fact, it is very special to look at the figures there. For example, between 2017 and 2018, there are fewer levels of 800 students in high school, as planned. Of these, there are over 620 students in one area. The main objective, the largest, except for mastering this change from shortening to the student's test, is to increase the number of younger students in training. There is a great need to cultivate that privilege. The 7 topic area is science and competitive funds in research. If so, you can find it on page 18. In the report, this article was 1,666. This project is now being addressed to the Ministry of Education and Culture, was formerly with the Ministry of Presidency. A policy strategy is now being developed for 2017-2019 in that region. There we have, and we have been sitting there for some time significantly increasing our donations, have come in there. The metal party is closely linked to the 21st - language university community. It is desirable and natural to discuss this in some context, though there is no clear understanding. Subject range 21 is the university. If so, you can find it on page 18. In the report, 271◯279. The largest of these are building projects that have been long - awaited, or long - awaited, in English. Nevertheless, the budget we have called after college does not grow according to the expectations of the university. So it's up to you, and you're gonna reevaluate the calculus. The task is already in the preparatory phase with the aim of improving the quality of the country's university and research. I'm going to just do this, since time is premeditated, and I'm going to assume that there are other factors to address on the financial agenda below. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u34	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the story. He said that 2018 will be added significantly to the lawsuits that are being heard by the Ministry, but that is clearly different from the people's experience. Yes, it is, of course, that the next two years at a university degree, such as the year in which institutions are inserted. In the form of Husseður Talent English Talent. But that means that there will be no growing hope at that time. It means, in effect, that when a college budget is finally released, it will be in the year 2020 that the Ministry of Education will be replaced by a new Ministry of Education. It seems that the policy of this government is not to add anything to college business while sitting, leaving the following one. Earlier today, in the Minister's case, it was stated that he in accordance with the approval of the Generals, suggested that a donation be made to build a Museum of Nature, which is spoken of in the cooperation of the Government Declaration that the protection of culture and nature and the access of the public to it are to this day. There's a Museum of Nature, one of the key factors. It was shown in the case of the minister that his wish had not been fulfilled. It seems strange to me that the minister of finance has the order of the Education Minister and the approval of the Generals to deny them in this way. What other large mails did the Minister not get involved in negotiations with the Ministry of finance? Wouldn't it be right for the General to have all the evidence in his hands that they would let us know, for example? What did the minister consider normal management costs to Iceland's University to be compared with what he puts here on the Generalis Table? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. When he asserts that things are not being added to the university, it is a highly validated claim for the simple reason that the university is an increase. However, we can agree that it might be greater. We can also agree, as we have seen in the report at the university in this country, that we are financing university education in Iceland, I am thinking, in a good way, according to the average of the OECD, which, on the other hand, we have less donations for a student. When you look for the explanation in this subject, you are most likely to find an age in college in this country that is much higher than in any other country. He is the best in Iceland, which suggests that the best known men are saying that in some way we are directing the university level at our level in line with what is created and that our schools are financing what they have to do with higher and larger courses. Most people who know about these matters feel that we should reevaluate them in order to increase the quality of study. That work has begun. I expect that once it goes forward, we can provide more funding, a better job, and a more efficient career in the university than we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u36	A respectable president. The minister says that when I say nothing is added to the university level, it's a factor. But it is also the experience of those who work at the university, possibly because of the production of a national financial programme, they are resorting to a planning cost at the long - term time of the House of Iceland's Education and College Business. I ask in the name of transparency, which is one of the basic laws on government finance: Would it not be right for us and the public to have this separated? Thus, we could take the discussion on the schedule that we the minister agree to do, as we can tell us which centenarian number is indeed in order to improve the university service. I think the Minister and I would agree that a powerful knowledge community that we want to be on this land is driven by a powerful university. Then we will not get by achieving OECD criteria or whatever we want to aim for by reducing the number of students. Then I ask myself, " If I'm going to attend the University of Iceland, I'm going to have the right way to make donations for the university, for example. ' that we have here an urgent need to increase the number of health professionals. They are heading for a very high level of teaching cards. These are classes that need to promote education within the university. We need more university education, not smaller. In the end, I'd like to ask the Minister about high school. It was cut down for three years, contrary to the professional freedom we expect to grant it, saying that the savings would be used to strengthen the work there. But that's not the experience. It's a pinch of 1,700 million. K. during the period. Would it not be better to use that money to increase the quality of study, increase the freedom to choose ways to study in high school, or improve psychological services as soon as high school needs? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u37	A respectable president. I share a vision with a bang. A senator will see how we go in an effort to strengthen the work of the university in the country. It may be that in some way we will analyze the individual ways to that extent, but the representatives of the university class with which I have interviewed have brought a great deal of pressure to reevaluate the model with the thought of trying to approach it in a similar way as they do in our competitive lands, if we can say so. I have high hopes that this will be possible to cooperate fully with the university. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks about the schools at high school. It is quite true that the proposed reduction of high school was in terms of improvement, not the national interest, because it is enormous and shows up, inside the system, being kept inside. That's quite clear, considering the kind of plan we're not giving it all back. Nevertheless, there are improvements inside the system. Actual growth, e.g. in the schedule, an estimated 36% is into the high school phase. But what I'd like to say and let me say is that this plan is being done in a very deep space of time. It's perfectly obvious. It has the natural mark. In fact, it is an achievement that the council should be delivered before April 1. This document is revised every year until 2020, although it will be elected then. We in this hall will, of course, take into account the information we have yet to receive. Just at the end of the study, I mention that the analysis of donations to the university level was made because of the circumstances. A senator asked, of course, when the financier and the professional committees begin to work deeper into the current programme and the government and the Ministry provide information about disintegration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u38	Mr. President. The schools have been distributed 29 billion in budgets. Of these, HI has been assigned 20 billion to the school business. The financial program expects a billion elevations that will permanently go to a research fund in Iceland's University to further the school study work, and that's a good thing. That, however, does not change the school's enormous need to maintain a professional career. Now, as a result of gangstas, after 2016, the school is 500 billion degrees away, and school is absolutely impossible to keep on the air alone. The consequences of this angle include: 50 courses at school have to be cut off for the next winter. As a result, a course offered otherwise would not be offered for the coming winter. It's completely unacceptable. An additional 1,300 million are needed so that the school can continue its function; to be a center of education and progress in Icelandic society. To be an outstanding school, which we can proudly present internationally, as it were. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter tore up earlier today, needs to be added to that. On page 18. 272 in the government's proposal for interpretation of financial programs, the number of high school students in the country has decreased over the past few years and the overall proportion of those who studied at a master's level is 30%. It's under the roof. Education minister that is acceptable? I also ask the highest. Education Minister: How will the government react to the emergency in Iceland today? This plan does not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. For the first time, I don't agree. A senator in the opinion that there is an emergency in the Icelandic university system. I don't think we're in that place. I mention, for example. that Iceland's University performs very well in international comparison, particularly in an environment of research. In fact, when we compare ourselves with the results of other schools, it is remarkable to achieve such results in not a larger nation. But this certainly is a fragile situation. The warning words of the university leaders are to be taken seriously. I hear the demand sound pretty good from the college community. I also heard from members of the council members during last night's discussion about the financial program that they share many of their opinions on funding at the university. Clearly, the expectations of those living there and working there are great. There is great ambition, and a very good work is being done there. That warning should be taken seriously. However, I also say that when we compare ourselves with university careers in other countries, we must make the claim that all aspects of the material are dependent on them and not merely look at a centenarian's number are cut out of touch with other aspects of the university environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u40	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. At the top. Ministers simply need to disagree on this, as data show that the University of Iceland is not doing well in international comparisons. Government financial programs talk about schools without separateness and how well they are doing in the schools of the country. At the same time, it has gone so far as to claim that the educational system as a whole is well financed. How presumptuous of you to say such things with such an obvious lack of money in high school throughout the capital city and country, I guess. It's no secret. That's what parents and the public know all over the city. In what reality does the government responsible for such claims mean that the educational system is well funded? Here, numbers seem to turn and adjust so that it is easier for the government to say such things. My experience as an audition officer in the city's school and leisure council is that the city does everything possible to ensure services, but when it comes to schools without separation, it just isn't the reality. Children's parents know that they need specific measures. Everybody gets something, but nobody gets enough. Admittedly, rural society is responsible for school management, but it is also pressured to work in the legal environment that is created here and under the financial laws that are approved here at the General Assembly. It is crazy that rural society is constantly pointed to when school is heavy and the working situation is unacceptable. The rural communities do as much as they can from lemons. On page 18. 282 in the program shows that to cope with the great loss of a teacher in the coming years, there was a body of cooperation to be submitted in 2018. It's not a quick reaction. Is it really the best thing the Ministry of Education thinks he can do, constantly pointing to rural society and taking no proper responsibility for the situation in the basic schools of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u41	A respectable president. When we talk about financing at the university or education in Iceland, I ask. Councilmen looking up page. 81 on schedule. Public expenses in the North countries are well presented in this way. Education. The average country without Iceland is 6.3% of gross domestic product in 2015. Iceland has 7.5% and no country can get near it except Denmark by 7%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u42	...about elementary school?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u43	Then, when we discuss school without separation, which is why. A senator mentioned and spoke of false information in the fact that the results of the report claimed that there was enough money inside the system to minister to this group, this is the European Institute for School and Undistinguished. This is a foreign objective assessment with this declaration. It's not made by the government. On the other hand, if 16% of Icelandic schoolchildren are diagnosed with some deviations from being, within the foals, an ordinary student, it must be a matter of concern to all, a school without separation, and a course of pride. The criteria in our control countries are 5%, at the highest rate, 6%. We must do things in a way that is very different from most of the others we would like to compare us with. There's good reason to take a look at these factors. But I would like to stress that it is not the opinion of the local community that they have all the responsibility in that subject, not at all. This is our common responsibility. We are under obligation to our clients, especially in basic schools, to correct the shortcomings brought out there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the story. I think all of us can agree that the prosperity of nations is based on the ability to make certain progress. When I read a five - year financial program, I was surprised to see the small growth that goes to the university, about 1.6% of the average per year. In the leading of his last election, all classes spoke in a way that should be greatly improved to the university, since in recent years he has had to make significant adjustments. University drivers noted that the only way to deal with this is to reduce the number of students at the university, to reduce the number of study courses and study subjects. It's very striking. There's a lot of turmoil going on at the University of Iceland. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who receives only a clearer answer than did immediately appear in his case: How will the Supreme One do so? Ministers to react to what a university driver is saying, that we look forward to a reduction in the number of students? Also, I would like to ask him: Is the government going to get the OECD average in the season?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is similar to what I had discussed earlier, and it became clear that yesterday the discussion was with the spokesmen of the classes of 1st. the financial program where we all share with the university presidents is concerned about how the finance is. In this regard, I have not been tired of underlining that our average college activities are similar to the financial value of most other OECD countries. But we do another thing in a different way. It is well stated here that the motivations of the model we now use at the university can contribute to a large but uniform university level with emphasis on professional teaching, where the number of students can reach at least minimum to cover fixed costs. And then there's a statement made on that topic: Such trends are in harmony with high - quality emphasis on the career of a university or the long - term needs of the community for academics, considering that the needs of the Icelandic university are greater than they do today. This phrase actually involves the project that Iceland and I need to resolve and make more demands on the quality of the Icelandic school system than on expanding a clear and holy course in order to take in more students to increase the money that enters the university. Somehow we need to work on a better solution. That's my input to the question of what. Senator. In view of the conversations I have had with the university authorities, I believe that there is a strong desire there to adopt these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his answers. I have to admit, though, that I didn't quite get them. As we face this, many senators, I understand a university driver, so if this doesn't change, then there's an emergency in the University of Iceland. I'm really worried about it when we hear a university driver talk about a visit to the research university. I think that in order for us to go into this and put in a comprehensive educational program, this needs to be taken very seriously. I also feel that at college I hear that there is increasing weight in the language of people. I think of it as if Iceland is going to be a competitive 21st century society, it's a key factor that we provide research, to the knowledge community. We know that there is going to be a lot of changes in the workforce. Many of today's jobs will probably not be there after 10 to 20 years. In order to make a success of the future, we need to be very attentive, very careful about research, and to improve our economy, so that more is involved in innovation and other industry, I'd like to see. A key point is to have a powerful research school. Therefore, I give a lot of concern if there is not a complete approach to how to deal with the anxieties of Iceland's University.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u47	A respectable president. I can, in most cases, agree with what. A senator of what has been said about the importance of research and knowledge in order to simply maintain the excellent quality of life enjoyed by Icelanders in recent decades. The premise that we have kept our place in the nations is that our education system has worked, our career has changed. All of this is knowledge. In the foundation, we build on this when we discuss the standard of living that we live in, and we want to enjoy an unlimited future. There is no overall plan for how we will respond to the anxieties of the presidents. I say they are also responsible for the way we handle the challenges we face. Their views on such matters may vary, and they are sure to have different directions, and the approach varies. We've got a lot of different shapes at the university. The options of the university to cope vary, as we know. I don't know why these 50 studies had stopped. For some of them, it may simply be that they are not interested, not needed. I have no reason to believe that all of this is due to a lack of money. However, that may well be the case. But the key point is that the university itself has a full example of how it uses the financial resources given to him by the council at each time. That's the big deal. Our job in the Ministry is to follow the emphasis that has been placed there, both in law and in regulations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u48	A respectable president. I would like to discuss some aspects of this discussion less significant, but they are discussed in chapter 18. It is culture, art, sports, and youth. Under these conditions are collections, cultures, cultural funds, sports and youth. I have often wondered, especially with the competitive fund, in view of the experience I have from the university and scientific environment, that it is noteworthy that when it comes to growing up to culture and art, it often takes quite a lot more attention than those given to science and often face more criticism. Most likely, because the common people think that they have more knowledge about culture and art than some of the specialized projects involved in science. This chapter discusses a culture fund. It says, by permission of the president: With regard to activities within the category, there are 14 laws and regulations on legal and other funds. The media's main funds are an ancient mine fund, a trust fund, a collection fund, an art fund, artist's payroll, a film fund, an exposé of Icelandic music, a library fund of authors, a music fund, a music collection, a music recording fund, a language fund, a job theater, and a job fund of independent academics. It's a long list. The chapter on target 2 shows that there are a number of funds that measure the results, but the criteria will be defined in 2018. I'd like to have the Minister's perspective on these materials, if I should understand them as a means of reducing funds and working in some way. I also ask if these proportions, which are today between fixed cultures and funds, three to four, will change in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer to the counter is: Yes. I have every desire to make changes in this environment of culture and to accept it for what it is. A senator that I haven't come far in those thoughts of myself. I'm just starting to look at all this vegetation. By the scope of the board, there are too many people in my mind who control and boil too much. No matter how we do, we're going to have to grow up there in some way. There is a great danger that the amount of money put into it, as it is done today, varies from one to the other, and some are more equal than others, so you just put it that way. The mix between the fund system and the public institutions and the cultural strengths is in a way that is already built up by a certain imbalance between the activities that are funded by special contracts or funds to the institutions that are on fixed budgets, only that are subject to changes in prices or remuneration and other similar items. I'm of the opinion that we have to sort out this difference somehow. The majority of cultural activity outside the capital area is pronounced either by contracts or by sources of financial support that do not enjoy prices or pay. There's a built-in fixation, and I think we need to see how we can correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for his answer. I can inform you that I have a measure of interest in these funds, especially because often it seems to me that there is a chance to plant certain seeds. People can set out with an idea they intend to conduct, take it all the way; apply, go through a process, often with other people, and may become something from it even if there is no full support. I believe in this way to promote culture and art in the country. Therefore, I find it interesting to hear, as is said about the goals, that all of these factors will be defined by a reference. So maybe we're at a starting point on that road. I can't wait to see how she works. I'd like this to ask a little more questions about other goals set in this chapter, i.e. promoting the status of the Icelandic language in the community in an appropriate way. It has been defined as four 2016, 8 2018, and sixteen more efficient language projects: 2022. I would like to ask, " May this increase be considered as much as the amount of money, whether this will be a project that will be as big or possibly a smaller project, and what are some ideas in the Ministry about it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u51	A respectable president. What is meant is work that actually began in the last government with financing on it, if I remember correctly, 50 million. K. More than 60. A former minister of education set up a team that is now carrying a second order to provide proposals and emphasis for the next four to five years. It's the best job and the best job. Whatever the nature of this work, it is obvious that there are suggestions for spending, as well as suggestions on how we can fully cooperate with government and employment. There is a rich understanding and a great willingness to get at the point of strengthening the foundation of modern technology. It is simply too early for me to say something about how we do things, but it is the determined will of the person here that this assignment will be taken very seriously. We will also take steps to take care of it in some way in the fields of the Scientific and Technical Council. There we have given specific emphasis that we expect to be able to share with us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u52	Mr. President. I think it must be the dream job of all politicians who want to be a minister of education in Icelandic society today. It will play a key role in Iceland's success over the years in the time of a massive change in society through a technological revolution, artificial intelligence, and all the things I'm talking about all the time. Therefore, the Minister of Education should be here on the shirt with uplifted sleeves in the eye, fighting for funding into the system instead of defending a very cautious plan because there are enough opportunities for this unprecedented economy to collect money from those who are able to use it well. I'd like to ask the highest. Education Minister: There is now a thousand preschool instructors missing and a shortage of high school teachers in the country. How will he react to the predictable deficiency that is severe? Has or will he abide by the requirements and promises given in the fall upon the preparation of agreements on the equivalent of pension rights to increase pay e.g. Teachers and other employees in public service? And how so? The college community will also play a key role in this new professional revolution. It's not available for us to be sort of close to the northern countries and under OECD targets. It referred to culture and art. Illustrating articles are vital. They will be searched for. I'd like to ask you if it's the highest. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson is going to join me in the process of truly fighting for the progress of culture, art, and creative articles, as well as putting more money into the university. I'll then ask in action afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists and sharpens. I appreciate it. I'm a rather calm person by nature, but I believe that I have a reasonable view of all the issues I want to fight for. I can assure you what. A senator says I have a fine and great ambition for the divisions entrusted to me in the Ministry of Education and Culture. [[For example: You've got a temper.]] - Of that, we worked together for a long time. Right away. A senator asks how to increase the number of nurses and teachers, so I explained that in a report published by the Kingdom Accounting Study, the number we study may not be a primary concern. For some reason, the people who are educated leave behind the work they have educated themselves to do. In this way, we lose the investment that we have invested in as government, i.e. The education involved. It's more complicated. Hv. A senator asks how the Minister of Education is going to employ the contents of the SALEK Convention to be respected in terms of pay balance. Then we have entered another financial area. It is better to direct such questions in there. But I will support the secretary of finance for all good works in that regard. That is obvious, despite the fact that we are in comparison with, for example. The North countries, with most nurses at 100 o'clock. The people, the need for nurses, as it is described for us from health care, are enormous, and we have some way of dealing with the state that is developing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u54	Mr. President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of education. This is not an acceptable or satisfying answer. You're right, top dog. Minister, we educate many teachers, but about 50% of them don't see reason to wear the shoes. One reason is that there is too little pay. The minister responsible for the category of litigation, who directs the clergy's education into a very uncertain but pleasant future if he succeeds, was only responsible for his fellow minister. He's got to turn his arm over to a government conference and pick them up. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, if you would like to listen so you can answer the question... [[I hear you.]] There are goals here. There's talk of operations--and now I have to talk higher because of the highest. Minister left the hall. However, it is said that they are not financed. V.E.G. Minister has been governor of three towns, and he has been a minister. He well knows that jobs on institutions, schools, or other activities cannot be added indefinitely, and he knows that there is no need for them to work more and more without financial support. Here, the expense team is empty everywhere and told to fit within the group. I want to know: Is it responsible not to finance this extra so that it won't interfere with the whole party? For then he is worse off than he is seen in this. And then finally, hiccup. A minister said that this work was being done under a lot of time pressure. The Law was also performed under very special circumstances. Does the minister think it's acceptable? Why don't we take more time on this and have the chance to make the mood so that much more of the members of Congress can get along with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u55	A respectable president. The Senator left the hall. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Welcome back. We've had an excellent review exchange now. When people discuss contracts, because we've both had experience working with farm members as their responsibles, I've already seen the chairman of the Council of the City of Akureyri handing out a commission to the manager for a certain staff contract. Things work, so there is a difference between parties. Humans must simply accept the responsibilities they are to bear at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u56	Just take what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u57	Come on, take it easy, Logi. It's only about what it's like. A senator mentions the work force. How much better it would be for us to have more time to work both, the budget for 2017, and even the financial agenda! Yet, these are both approved, which we have already made. In the last few weeks of last year, the Senate worked in an excellent harmony with the law of the government. It didn't change that we couldn't get together on a final product. We won it just as fast as we could. Relatively fast. But this plan is worked within such a time frame that it is, I thought it was. A senator introduces a calendar. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] She's worked within a very tight time frame that I'm pretty convinced of - unless elections are going to break up again -- that if it doesn't happen again, the plan will be taken all the other way next year, I'm not gonna talk about it again. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u58	Mr. President. We've already earned about a year's workout. An hour from what was supposed to be the start of a discussion with a professional minister. The program has improved so much that it seems to be a continuation if members of the management team are not going to be more involved in the discussions than they have been. This discussion was agreed on on a certain basis. It was limited that members of Congress were able to get out of the administrative groups, such as the Constitution. So it was written by the rest of us to speak to the Ministers so that the program could go quickly and safely. Today, however, government officials do not seem to take advantage of having contact and conversation with the ministers. Then we must either allow others from our government position to talk or take a break and reorganize the program by at least My people in the left green have already prepared to arrive at some particular hour when the program expected ministers to respond. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Will the program be lateralized, or can we assume that the planks will be held?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u59	A respectable president. I had an informal conversation with a president, since I would have liked to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the highest court. Minister of Education specific questions. I've been signed, and actually my right as a senator to express myself. That was a deal. I wish and hope that the President will take this into account, but also those senators who intend not to take advantage of the time space of their party and give us the opportunity to ask the Ministers out. I know it's the highest. The Minister of Education is entering a group that isn't his and is going to be here with us because ministers from the government can't be here today. I thank him very much for that, but it's a big piece of paper, so it's very painful not to use all the time we agreed on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u60	A respectable president. I don't really know how to say this. I am so surprised at how things are happening to this new and changed Council of Good and Improved Work. I was wondering why some political leaders are in politics. If they are not interested in participating in financial discussions for the next five years, what are they getting elected to the council? Then why are people doing this over their heads? I'm sitting right there. Environmental and Transport Committee. Over them are two Prime Ministers. I don't have a chance to talk to both of them because we had a deal that would allow only one member of each category to have a conversation with each minister. This is what we did so that all classes could have discussions with the Ministers. But now it turns out that some of them are down. Senators just have no interest in talking to the Ministers about it. [[The president calls.]] Why, then, that they do not give the others who are truly interested in us the right to make room for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u61	A respectable president. At the beginning of this meeting, we were informed that there would be a brief discussion of each minister's language field. Now two ministers have spoken in an hour and a half, and 45 minutes is not a brief hour. We agreed on a speech lesson. He was announced at the beginning of a meeting. We agreed on freedom of speech in order to have a good conversation with the Ministers. Thank you very much. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson, for the fine discussion here, but under the minister, nine of the 34 financial sectors in the budget. I wouldn't have thought that we would take this full hour to discuss the topic areas. If directors don't want to use their time, I know about people who can use it. However, if we want to cut this time, we cut a nail and take as 45 minutes per minister, we just need to sit down and renegotiate. [[The president calls.]] Today's contract does not even hold coffee time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u62	A respectable president. Yeah, it's completely incomprehensible. What sort of agreement is being made between the council groups, such as the year 33 C.E.? paritaprevir The Birgir of an Ármannsson witnessed from the Punishment of the Council earlier? What sort of agreement is being made between members of the council when they do not, when governments are not interested in participating in discussions about the financial plans of their government until the next five years? So why can't people show up in an honest and honest way and say that they don't want to participate in these discussions and give us more space and space to raise questions and participate in debates at the highest level. Ministers here? This is completely incomprehensible. This kind of work doesn't work. I'm calling for the members of the board to respect the agreement made here yesterday and think it will be. It's a minor respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u63	The president would like to point out that when we make a contract with members of the council for a talk period, and as a result, the freedom of speech to all other members of Congress is limited, it is a contract made with the president. If you're breaking that contract, you're going to have to deal with a respectable president, Unnur Konráðsdóttir. I guess she's at this point exactly. If she hasn't known about this, I'd like to ask a senator to point her out that this discussion has taken place about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u64	Mr. President. I thank you that our recommendations have been referred to the chairman, which is what we are discussing rather important, and it is important that we gain insight into this matter as far as most people are concerned. Of course, we cannot force members of the administrative body to do our job. That may be far beyond what we can do, but we can ask to the highest level. Ministers who are learning their language are taking a little deeper into their issues. I have seen that the time on their part has not been fully spent. These are very many complex subjects that are being studied, and they must be able to be reviewed more accurately, so the situation of government needs to be asked a little less questions, since members of the board are not interested in participating.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u65	The president may reveal that a respectable president, Unnur Konráðsdóttir, the beloved daughter of Consecret, has been informed about this. Senators have informed me of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u66	Mr. President. I don't understand anymore. I know that time is relative and man's understanding of it too, but the highest. Just before, a minister said that it had been earned so much time, and then it was already a challenge. Government officials do not see a reason to discuss this future romance of the triangle in the administrative home - why do people not want to fill in the time we have set aside for better communication? Most of us have taken from time to midnight tonight. Let us make good use of that time. V.E.G. The minister must be pleased because this is going to happen, at least in chapters, helpful communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u67	I'm so happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u68	A respectable president. We live in Congress, and here members of Congress are just asking the minister about the financial program. There are a number of reasons behind the numbers that we cannot access. In the past, it was stated that a collection of natural disasters was not financed because the request for such funding had not been paid. After a request from me, it is clear that this request has not paid off to the money committee. The petition for implementation, according to the council's conclusions, did not enter the budgetary committee in the last budget, let alone now in a financial program. The message just doesn't seem to fit in from the Ministry to the Ministry of Economics and to us into a financial committee. Such information is vital for all, not only the government opposition, but also those who have the same limited access as we do in the government position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u69	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Acting as president for providing messages to the highest level. The president of Brá of Konráðsdóttir's daughter that this discussion had taken place now has been submitted, and the message has returned to our chamber. That's what matters. But I have to say, after the way this discussion has started, a man certainly feels strongly that an agreement is made for a talk period, in which members of the Parliament actually give up some of his freedom of speech so that all can participate and have an important and necessary discussion with the Honourable Minister. Why should we want this discussion to give up on someone who is not benefiting from it? I think it's very thought - provoking. And that's why I want to go to the top search. President, this will be postponed while this will be discussed at the scene of the council classes. [[The president calls.]] Then we can continue to discuss politics properly and under some organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u70	Since this part is so fun and we haven't yet received an answer from a respectable president, Konráðsdóttir Brá Bará Konstrudóttir, let's just go on. However, I call for quickly answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u71	President. Yeah, I'll agree with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. I feel that this meeting should be interrupted and renegotiated. One of the most difficult things for me to write my speech and to make inquiries to the welfare minister afterwards is to boil it down to two minutes. There are so many amazing things to deal with, but we gave ourselves this in good faith that it would be respected and that it would continue to help us. Then people just have nothing to do with it and don't want to be involved in this discussion, and I feel that we should be allowed to talk much longer. I hope to the highest. The President will find good landings in this case, which is fair to all of us and to this important discussion. This is a huge deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u72	Mr. President. I have to agree with them why. Councilmen here have spoken. I'm very sorry to hear that this isn't the time of all of us at this council and the contracts that have been made about the freedom of the council of this important matter. I think it illustrates well what kind of stamping agencies the greater part would consider themselves to represent their highest minister, since they feel that they have no reason even to discuss matters in front of Congress and nation, but rather think that they can only sit here quietly and allow the court case to pass through with certainty that they will choose as fine prowes and not discuss matters of any interest at the Honourable Minister. I'll call for what? Members of the board of directors who feel that they are not a time - stamping institution for the rest of the section.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u73	A respectable president. Of course, it is shocking that an agreement for an appointment will last only one and a half hours. Of course, it is shocking that we need to pause at this meeting, sit down, and negotiate again. As we have seen, this also describes a deeper problem - that of those in the district of government, all but one, ignoring this discussion to this point. They could have been three on each minister. Five o'clock. Congress officials did not take advantage of their opportunity to address the budget plan for the next five years, one of the major matters of each assembly. Remember the General Assembly. This is the workplace where there are some rules. A senator is obliged to attend meetings, except for past experiences allowing other things to happen. Where are all the people? Why do we sit, members of the government side, here and talk to one another about the fact that the directors skip school and don't want to talk about it? Is this what we're here to do, dancing in town instead of talking about a financial plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u74	A respectable president. At first, I would like to say that I sometimes feel bad when I sit here in the hall and listen to a discussion about not sharing in the discussion. [[Up front.]] Of course, I know what humans mean. [[Up front.]] I'm talking right now. I know what people mean, but listening to other people's opinions is also involved. That's what I've been getting into. Then there is another. I participated in a discussion about the educational and cultural aspects of this financial program and will do so in all the litigations involved in the committees I am involved in. But I don't personally deny, to democracy, that I sometimes think my time is better spent listening to what opposers of this document have to offer than those who support it. [[You see, we do...]] Me and the highest. A minister agrees on the main subject of what is there. [[But why?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u75	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting debate over the President's conference board. Actually, I have nothing to do with the President's conference board to look into in order to be maintained. Here you have heard that you are either not doing your job or that someone has a stamp pad. I agree with what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, who spoke earlier, you see, it is often very interesting to listen to the discussion. Often it is good to remember that we have two ears and one mouth. That's why I propose, top dog. Mr President, we'll just continue with the helpful discussions here on the financial agenda and talks to the Honourable Minister on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u76	A respectable president. I'm new to the council. This is my first week at this great workplace, where there are many fun people and lots of good opinions. I'm just moved by the fact that there's a period for each category to talk about some huge lawsuits, absolutely important matters, of the government's budget until the next five years. When the contract is over, we're losing a minute because the executives decide not to come in and use their time. I just think it's just a disrespect for all of us who work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u77	Mr. President. I'm sorry about what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek is very boring, but I have absolutely no idea how to talk about sitting in this room and being quiet and not presenting my opinion is somehow participating in discussions. To participate is certainly to come up here and stand up. What I think is why. Councilmen just don't feel the same way about this piece of paper or they don't have the guts to express it. They may not be prepared to defend the fence because they may know just how bad paper it is. Hv. Haraldsdóttir But she may not be able to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u78	Mr. President. As a member of a historical small council, I can imagine that being a part of a flock, following the leadership, and believing in its infallibility is a pleasant place to be. This is where we missed it. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek was the one who supported this synopsis proposal. All right, I know members of the board who were campaigning with me this fall who either don't believe in this document or have completely changed their mind. They'll be fed, huh? Senators, once this has been approved and you're about to go out into the provinces and learn that this is to be done and that you've supported a document that's not gonna be expected. Hv. paritaprevir If you're Njáll, Trausti, road reforms, air travel, sound, school - save it for the next campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u79	A respectable president. There seems to be some misunderstanding to the reason why I'm speaking up about the President's conference board. I don't think there's anything wrong with people who don't want to express themselves. That's their right. However, once we have negotiated a certain amount of time and they do not want to use it, there should be a chance that they could allow members of another political party to use that time. For example, I would have liked to ask the highest. The prime minister of government policy against social violence, but I did not find out. As for the Minister of Education, there are so many questions that a man could have asked him, but we had just one question. It is simply that if humans are not planning to take advantage of their time, they should allow other members of the council to have a chance of doing so. That's what I'd been talking to a president, and the message was that it wouldn't be possible because this was the way it had been negotiated. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u80	A respectable president. There seems to be some misunderstanding. The members of the council of Brusti Haraldsdóttir and Pawel Bartoszek. In the memory part, we are not calling for reason. People talk here all the time, if they have something to offer because we already negotiated it. That's the deal. If a section of this council is to be remembered, the program should not be completed for another period without the appearance of any members of the council. I agree that it is good to listen, and it doesn't always have to be spoken. You're not supposed to talk unless you have something to offer, but if it's agreed on anything else, you must all be able to respect that agreement. Something else is unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u81	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir, she stole the words from my mouth, but I wanted to add to what was said about the time before when time came when the Senate didn't notice that new government officials voted in one way. The prime minister came to them, and shortly after the conversation, they changed their votes. This is gonna sound really bad for me if they're not allowed to vote on their own convictions according to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u82	A respectable president. Under a lot of things, but I didn't say. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, I think of the government side, the smaller part, boring. I did not. I said, on the contrary, that I would be more useful in hearing my view of things because he was at odds with the Minister who spoke to and to my point of view. Then you can have an opinion of it and whether it is a common understanding of this agreement. I confess that I spoke to my council chairman about our obligation to participate in these discussions. If the agreement has already existed, it has been at least it was not clear that all who agreed on that agreement had a common understanding. But let's be clear: I didn't call the smaller part boring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u83	Mr. President. I must call for that. In this regard, the chairmans of the Convention, the Bears of the Future, and the Independence Party explain whether they have discussed with their people what the program should be conducted here today. Hv. A senator who was before me was saying that people understood the agreement differently. Here are reserved for each body of members, one on a man, and some group of members of the council has decided in some particular group of councilmen not to take advantage of it. All right, there wouldn't have to be anything over everybody, maybe just some. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek said that he was going to participate in the things he had and the committees he was in. Fine, but what will the other members of the board do? Hv. The head of the administrations must have to tell us. Þorsteinsdóttir Ármannsson have Friðriksson Theodóra what they said to their people. Did all three of them know that their people were not going to use the both of them? [[The president calls.]] Why, then, did they make such a deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u84	V.E.G. The minister of education for Kristján Júlíusson has properly informed the president that the Senate case is Icelandic and that it should be seat. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Okay. Look, this can be really fun. [[For example, consider: This is useful.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u85	President. I'd like to say again that I hope to the highest. Mr. Konráðsdóttir, the beloved Conspiracydóttir, will recess this meeting so we can renegotiate. That's what it's all about. This undermines the confidence we need if we are to negotiate such things in the future. We have to be able to trust that negotiations are being handled, and in reality, you do not become suspicious that you are trying to cheat someone in some way and deceive a person to get this discussion through at a short time. I call for the highest trust call. The president has stopped, and we're going to make this anew.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u86	V.E.G. President. I'd like to reiterate what I said before, you'll be very concerned about why we're supposed to write a speech lesson with us so that everyone can attend the discussion when it leads to a much faster discussion because not everyone will choose to join it. We, who care about Congress and democracy, know that freedom of speech, the opportunity to discuss matters with us, to form a supreme minister as well as any other members of Congress, whether they participate in the discussion or to listen, is of utmost importance to us, for we have no more part in the council. What we have is a voice to convey our views. We cannot make that voice of ourselves just so that the discussion will actually be reduced to our expense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u87	Mr. President. We had a deal. One was that the Ministers of the government would be here to have a word with us. It has already failed that two ministers will not be here but their replacements. We agreed that all groups would communicate, perhaps trying to change their style from what was when we discussed the financial policy in which there were only three years of age. The members of the board spoke up. We're not trying to extend to be boring, we're not trying to make this into some kind of circus or reality. What we're trying to do is to have an important and meaningful exchange of ideas about an amazingly important document that will affect this country to five years of age. This isn't a game, Mr. President, but it's being treated as a game and we're asking for proper action, for everyone to participate and for the discussion to be a good thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u88	Mr. President. I'm only coming up here to deal with a word or two. paritaprevir Björn Leví, son of Gunnarsson, in which I declare a great disappointment and, in fact, a shock to the fact that the rage has become such, I'm going to allow myself to say some kind of lack of logic in the matter when a brand - new member of this hall, which has hardly been for a minute and makes mistakes - to use it as evidence that it is clearly blocking or controlling something. We've all been new in this room. The election system is designed to push other buttons before vote is over, just because of mistakes like this one. We've all made mistakes in this room. I don't think it's fair to use them as evidence that we're all here for some kind of plunger pads or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u89	A respectable president. Next year, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the nation's sovereignty. We can be proud of Icelanders who have shown the world that in spite of the few, we are a valid, independent nation with a voice in the world society that can stand on our own. The main objective of foreign affairs is to protect international interests and the main projects of foreign services are to develop cooperation, humanitarian acts, human rights, security and defenses, foreign trades, civil service and national rights. Our foreign service is one of the least in Europe, since the nation is few. Of course, this requires priorities and practical management. There are times of great change in the world, and changes of course involve opportunities and challenges. This material has set up a management team to map out foreign service activities and suggest how to deal with the development in the coming years. The group is to submit proposals in the fall. The work of each office will be examined, the benefits to be obtained, and how a change of world image affects the priorities of the ministry. Most of the budget, more than one third, is devoted to developing cooperation. The aim of developing cooperation is to reduce poverty and contribute to global well - being on the basis of equality and sustainable development. This budget will follow the previous programme to increase Iceland's contribution to 0.26% of national incomes over the next year and this share will be expected to remain unchanged throughout the period. This increase and forecast of increased national income explains much of the increase in foreign resources in the coming years. Foreign trade is another vital task of foreign service. An estimated one quarter of foreign donations are spent in foreign trade. The main objective of this project is to protect Iceland's economic and commercial interests in foreign countries. One of the most important challenges for the Icelandic government is to make a living for discussions about the future network between Iceland and Britain after its discharge from the EU. The aim must ensure that Icelandic people have access to British markets. Most of the budgets for security and defense are being financed and the maintenance of defense workers in Iceland, as well as spending more money on civil activities in NATO. The rest of the service budget is spent in civil service and contributions to the international institutions, these traditional foreign affairs. In recent years, Arctic issues have become more important, and Iceland's interests are very much involved. Iceland takes lead in the Arctic Council of Finnum in the spring of 2019 and spends it for two years. Pretiness will be one of the biggest international projects Iceland has ever taken and will require a great deal of careful preparation. Then Iceland will be the head of the North and the Baltic States in the World Bank in the same years as in the Northern Union in 2019. The plan expects temporary increases in foreign contributions over the next few years because of these projects. Otherwise, the plan assumes that contributions due to foreign services will be somewhat stable during the period. Some 12% of the budgets are spent on contractary contributions to the international institutions. The budget is somewhat stable each year, but it grows with national income, except for Iceland's contributions to the Motion Fund of the EEA, which is repetitive and upsizing over the period. The importance of the State Ministry's civil service has grown dramatically in recent years with an increasing number of Icelanders abroad. Today, there are over 40,000 Icelandic citizens abroad, and those living in Iceland are traveling to foreign lands each year. The main objective of civil service is to protect the interests of these our citizens while they are abroad. The projects are varied, ranging from providing emergency letters for them in planning massive operations due to a foreign emergency. This could hardly be our small foreign service, and it could hardly work well without benefiting from volunteer work to more than 240 ballots around the world. I'll finish my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u90	Madam President. I want to reiterate my words and I'm sorry that we're here discussing financial plans for the next five years in the absence of two Ministerial Ministers. It's the highest. The Secretary of Education and Culture is sent to answer for the handling of foreign funds for the next five years, with all due respect. I'm going to hope he's well inside the group, because there's plenty of news here. The biggest information regarding foreign affairs is a major cutoff on the proposed contributions for development. A respectable president. This financial program has dissuaded from the proposed contributions to development cooperation adopted at the General Assembly by all members of the Parliament, except Vigdís Hauksdóttir in the spring of 2013. It is not an acceptable, respectable president, because at the same time as here is informed about goals, attitudes, and contributions of the government and the Supreme Court. Secretary of State for Development - as the financial programme allows 0.26% of the budget of national income to be spent on development every year - Iceland has accepted international commitments to meet the UN target that industrialized countries provide 0.7% of their resources for development. Nothing, exactly nothing, will catch Iceland going to meet these goals for the next five years. And that is under the government of the Independence Party, the bright future and the restoration. Let us remember, and remember our shame for this, that by this we will not achieve the contribution of neighboring countries in the North countries, all of whom have contributed 0.7% to development for years. A respectable president. This is scandalous, and the shame of the governments is to support these plans. As an economic rise, the Independence Party wants this and its foreign minister, but its restoration and best future support the cutting off of this kind of evolutionary situation is unbelievable. Who, in effect, have these groups come to exist? And it's not acceptable to come up here and answer for the fact that this is a quarter of a year. [[The president calls.]] Here, these criteria are calculated by the percentage. Where to Close the Development Team? What is to be said and to open something in return? [[The president calls.]] I expect to get some answers from the highest level. Secretary of education and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u91	A respectable president. Of course, part of the planned discussion is to give members of the Parliament an opportunity to express themselves about the plans presented here. I'll do my best to answer the questions that are addressed to me in this discussion. On the contrary, I must protest that contributions to development are cut down. As noted in my speech earlier, as a percentage of GDP is expected to increase percent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u92	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u93	It's just that way, huh? Senator. You just come to the second answer and make comments about it. It is estimated that because of increased contributions to help refugees and refugees, the contributions were received in 2016 in 0.25%. They are expected to be 0.25% this year. The strategy aims to increase to 0.26% in 2018 and thus maintain the period. In addition, because higher national income is expected, this increased proportion will also provide additional donations for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u94	A respectable president. That's a very tragic defense for me at the highest. Secretary of education and culture. There are other things in this financial program that are shocking. This scandalous contribution by the government to development cooperation and development practices that are maintained here in 0.26% of the nation's income every year for the next five years. They're not moving. And even at the highest. A minister would take the sorry excuse for bringing down the interests of the trustees and of the entouragers under the task force of the Ministry of State, it seems rather pathetic, and there is quite an incomprehensible text about that exactly, on page. 64, within this percentage of percentages, a large proportion of expenditures were made by contemporanists and hostilities. This does not depend on the fact that these issues are under the responsibility of the State Department. I also want to direct another question to the highest. The minister of education and culture that deals with contributions for safety and protection, at the highest level. The minister of state has spoken a lot about the need to revise but less clearly explain what he means. It tells us that there is a complete renewal of defenses and the functionality of the radar system, but there is no explanation for the contribution of the Independence Party, the restoration and the future of this group. The highest. The minister of education and culture explained this to me? And I pray to the highest. A minister to refrain from resorting to the Crown Defense, for in comparison with other industrialities, we are very poor, and it is important who is in charge here, a respectable president. In the long left administration, administration of VG and the United States, ambitious plans were made to raise contributions to development cooperation to 0.46% of the annual spending of citizens. [[The president calls.]] There are quite another economic situation in modern - day Icelandic society. How humans can hide behind such reasoning is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u95	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. A senator is deeply depressed about the information I have at the table. I must insist. A senator also has the opportunity to get more information than the person listed here can provide. It's quite obvious from the papers I went through with this discussion that we're not doing as well with these materials as with our next neighbor in the North countries. It is the highest rate of gross national income in Sweden, 1.4% of national product, which is far above what we do. I'm going to end this brief answer to why. A senator means to inform me that I do not have any information about these defenses. A senator asks and expects the Ministry to provide information that will be of use to the case. A senator in what way she will be answered in the treatment of the matter at the council. [[... defense.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u96	The president would like to inform me that the Honorable President of the Generals, Konráðsdóttir Brásdótttir, is in the house and that she was trying to solve the matter with members of the council. There's a council leader in the hall. Is that correct? [[Up front.]] I'll have to inform the world and the people of the country about it better afterwards, but I understand that now people are trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u97	Mr. President. There are many things I would like to ask the highest. Secretary of State, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to accept his replacement, chief. Secretary of education. I'm gonna start by asking about methodology. Each chapter of the budget contains a table that describes goals. In foreign affairs, each position at every objective is described by 2016, by permission of the president: ▪ It's hard to measure, and it's based on self - esteem. I wondered, " How can I, as the Allied Council, be able to assess the results of action that is difficult to measure, especially when examining the criteria for 2018 and 2022? ' There is not a norm for any objective in the foreign section. I'd also like to ask a few questions at the embassy. Now there are 14 people, like me, at Iceland's embassy in Brussels, a small but very great group doing all the work to the European Union. Norway's similar embassy in Brussels has some 70 employees. We just need to protect Iceland's interests against the European Union by means of a fully developed and impregnable embassy. According to the financial plan, EICs will have to ensure that their operations are kept at a minimum. I'd like to be curious about the growth of people who can be expected in 2018,2022. We do not have experts at this particular embassy at the moment. You might also ask about the situation with other embassys.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First, when we consider how we should work out our goals and evaluate the goals set out in the budget, that the government and the council are working into a new reality. This is a major milestone that we are working on, which is a long - term financial plan, so that we are reaching out for it too. It's not an isolated thing, so I'll tell you here, how the waste of the goals is under foreign service, there's a lot more in other categories. It is certainly shocking that this work simply has not gone beyond the same trend, but it also allows the council to produce much more determined results in following and calling for them to do their work and to do the work set out there. As a result, I view it as a joint project of the Parliament and the management system of developing this work as being more obvious than it is, and I will honestly admit that measurable goals and standards are not set out in many ways. It's just that way. Right away. A senator mentions the comparison with Norway, and their presence in Brussels is different. The Norwegians have a large army of agents from their administration system located in Brussels and are protecting the vast amount of money that Iceland and I have so far not been prepared to put on. That's the difference. This may be the subject of the discussion, how much money we want to spend on certain factors, including the factors involved. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u99	Mr. President. I thank you for this attempt to answer and the honesty to accept that there is no criteria. The problem is that this document we are made to accept is full of standards that cannot be measured and goals that cannot be determined. This is not a good practice. It's not even possible to start describing how bad this is. We need this to be something that we can take into account, even to agree, to fix it. Total minimum. I hope this is going to be adopted by the Committee. Regarding the contrast between Iceland's emissary and Norway's embassies in Brussels, it says here, by permission of the president, on page 8. 124: No matter what the size of the nations, there are various projects to be done in international relations. Later, says: To some extent, this has been the case during the recent number of workers. Now I know things aren't exactly the way they should be. There are fewer employees in the particular embassy I mentioned earlier in Brussels but before the collapse. Yet, our mission in Brussels, which is linked to the European Union, is no less than the work of Norway. It is a question of whether we will continue to pursue Article 2. ... inthereservation of EEA's affairs or in our role towards 8 pars. and follow up on their issues when they are developing in Brussels, in the Commission, at the European Parliament, etc. I can see another $2 billion who go to foreign affairs. It would be interesting to know if there is an increase in the number of staff to this group of subjects or whether there is a continuation of people trying to do an amazing job but hardly because of a person's skill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u100	A respectable president. It's totally out of the question to me that if something is missing in what way you're working things, it's simply the most natural thing in the world for me to recognize that this is not working at all. Work on standards and goals has become the longest development team. As for foreign transactions and defenses, the work has been fine. But there are other things that stand out. It's more than just foreign service that way. The point is, we're developing and entering a new piece of work. This document is not completed until the budget committees and the professional committees have discussed it. The discussion we have here is very good in my mind, i.e. Instead of taking our discussion directly about the mood, as was taken yesterday, there was an agreement in the council to cover the discussion presented here. This is made up of the decision made by the prime committee and the budget committee, to bring up this discussion, and I feel that it is necessary before the matter is mentioned. This too is in accordance with the change made in the Senate to treat the budget, which was good. That's what I'm talking about. A senator says about the comparison between Norway and the way we perform our European work, we are right to live in comparison. It's been, I'll tell you, conscious work. I don't think anyone's surprised that we don't have much design there. My information - about the 2 billion as well. A senator asked about, i.e. whether it was intended to strengthen the specific work of the Brussels foreign service - reports that it is not. It is simply assumed that it will be in a similar way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u101	The president would like to announce that a respectable president, Konráðsdóttir Beladddótttir, and the council members seem to have agreed on how to discuss the subject and the discussion of this case, and that is well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u102	A respectable president. The chapter on foreign affairs shows that the need for humanitarian assistance has never been greater, and the affairs of refugees have been high in the last year. Thus, international institutions have called refugees'issues one of the most serious challenges facing the world. Then, in a presentation and the beginning of this financial program, it is made clear that the government intends to receive more guesses. That is one of the things that have been given great emphasis. However, I have been through this emigrant document and cannot properly see where the funds are to be received or that we can continue to support handsomely the United Nations Refugee Organization and other subsidiary institutions that have carried out these assignments. It is mentioned here that 696 million dollars are to be passed. for humanitarian assistance in 2017. It has also been observed in the minister's comments that since we have been putting extra money to help with refugees and refugees, contributions to development have gone up from what was formerly up to 0.25% of the population's income. But much of that money was under other advisers. As I know it, money has not been easy to keep. I have not seen that these funds are available under the Ministry of Health or Internal Affairs. That's why I'm asking if the money is under the State Department to make sure that we can do what we're supposed to do. I have numbers. It costs about 5 million to meet one reachesman. If we're going to receive 50, we're talking about 250 million, right? [[The president calls.]] If we're going to go up to 150, we're talking about 750 million. Then there is little left to go to all the important international institutions that we truly need to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u103	A respectable president. The financing of refugees is all under the code 29th, i.e. in the area of the Department of Health, Department of Social Affairs. The only money available to refugee aid provided by the Ministry of State is being used to assist in the field of distress, such as. Lebanon or Syria The funding of the reception or the assistance of refugees on our suspicion is not in the State Department, but, like, the case. A senator said that he's under the State and welfare Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u104	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that. That doesn't help, however, because I had just read a very good chapter number 29 on family matters. To illustrate, between 2018 and 2019 years are expected to increase the budget for family affairs by 400 million, while below we include: To build a new treatment home, to add to the baby's ordinary, of course, we're going to get together in the child's recovery. It's very difficult for me to see the exact amount of money on the increase. That's the only reason I'm calling for this and asking for it. I realize it's a little hard to cram it under the Ministry of Education. I just don't see the money in the plan. This must be one of the things the council has to add to to make sure that we can do what is said here to be done. So I go back through the numbers: If we're going to receive 50 people, as we've tried to do in the past few years, we're talking about 5 million each person, i.e. 250 million over four years. These are high amounts of money, but we simply have to assume them. I also want to back up the State Department on this matter. There are key institutions that are of enormous importance that really crowd, including. regarding the position of governments in the United States regarding the United Nations organization. Indeed, it will be called from us and other member nations of the United Nations to improve when it comes to humanitarian assistance. These under 700 million here are enough for a very high dose.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u105	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. A senator reiterates his opinion by calling for the location of refugees. As I answered here in a previous answer, money is reserved for the State Department's budget to assist in the field. I have to point it to what? According to the financing of these factors, a member of the House Minister of Social Affairs. I don't have any information about the financing of social matters or the welfare of the legal body 29.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u106	President. We are sailing into a new era in international politics, a time in which it is even more important that we as politicians stand fast and with liberal values, a time in which greater protection and isolationism are taking place in our part of the world. Both the British and the Americans seem to be leaning on. I'm concerned about this increased emphasis in the world on two-sided contracts and two-sided cooperations. These new emphasis are not in the spirit of the liberality we want to represent here on the land, and they threaten our interests. This is a serious situation, and especially for small countries like Iceland. Iceland has everything to do with stability in our part of the world. We all agree that communication, transportation, transportation, and business are as open and international as possible. This involves not only the economic security of the country but also the ability to ensure its protection. These are critical times, times in which peace is not necessarily self - determination, in which it is coming to us how incredibly important it is for Iceland that the European Union survives, not just from commercial and economic grounds, but from the fundamental role that the relationship has already played in ensuring peace in our continent. Therefore, it is important that the State Department adapts to this new situation. So I welcome the work that has started and is presented in a financial program that shows that a minister is aware of the importance of adapting foreign service to this new reality. But I also want a zealous minister to set priorities for the international work. Because that's where we can best protect our interests. Finally, I'd like to ask the minister to tell us only about this priorities, i.e. Whether it can be found in a financial programme where the priorities are set for international cooperation, especially in the field of defense and safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I agree that it's very important for us that the European Union is okay, so you say it's pretty important. This is an enormously important continent for us, although only in the realms of those who are close to me in positions of culture and education and our pursuit of knowledge. It's quite clear to me, as it turned out in my introduction to this discussion, that it's one of Iceland's major projects to prepare us for the change that's going on when the British walk out of there. That will require considerable changes for us. When you ask about your priorities, I simply witness to the work I mentioned earlier. In view of the changes that are taking place in the world, the Ministry of State is going through a considerable amount of work that works out to define priorities and re-route the emphasis. I mentioned earlier that the information presented here suggests that the work force in this field is expected to meet the proposals for this subject in the autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u108	Mr. President. Yeah. The world is breaking up in kingdoms that choose international cooperation and kingdoms that choose two - sided cooperation. It is my opinion that we should join our ranks with those countries who choose to work nationally, such as. North countries, rather than spending too much powder on those who are moving more towards two-way cooperation, such as the United States. Two - sided contracts usually serve the most and best interests of the great. A small country like Iceland has more opportunities for international cooperation than in two-way contracts with big countries. There are truly people today who are focusing on Europe's chaos. It is my opinion that we should join the European Union. So I'm not one of those who celebrate British exits from the European Union. I don't think it's good for stability in our fairy, as I entered my first speech. It's not good for the European Union, it's not good for the British, and it's not good for Iceland. We watch after one of our key business partners in the EEA, the British, out of the European Union. We're moving 11% to the British. To continue to achieve that market is an enormously important and priority to the government. But it is quite clear that most of us are being exported to the European Union. Stability in the international field, to say it over and over, is the best thing for a small country. Stability means insecurity and a small state are harder to maintain insecurity in international relations than in larger countries. I therefore urge the minister and his replacement to prioritize funding in the interests of international cooperation. I hope we'll see this part of our budget this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. Once again, a senator resists. I'm not really on anybody's side by myself. This does not change the fact that the British have decided to abandon the European Union. That is the reality that we, this nation, have to face in this regard. It is the mission of the Ministry of State to deal with this, and it is clear that the little information I have on the matter that the Ministry of State has fully begun to prepare for the changes and deal with the reality of the process. Whether we were right or wrong may vary our views, but this is a reality that we must face today. I think the Ministry of State and Service is trying to do that. I'd like to finally say what. I believe a member of a foreign minister's office, when he is present in this country, will receive the information that has taken place here, both by reading the talks that will be held on the financial program, and also by the fine officials who will observe the discussion and help me with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u110	Mr. President. It is somewhat odd to be pointing words to a substitute minister of foreign lands who answered me in the past to the highest degree. Education minister that he could not answer for the lack of education, for there was a explorer of social security, and this would be a distinction between ministers; they would not be much involved in other people's affairs. As a matter of fact, I don't think the world is so divided that it's not going to flow between limits. So I'm going to stay in general discussion of matters that are truly about to take care of all stewards. According to a financial program, the United Nations aims to support the UN to provide at least 0.7% of the gross national production for development. Later on, the site reports that the need for humanitarian assistance has never been greater and the affairs of refugees have been high in recent losses in Iceland and elsewhere. Now I know that the highest. The minister voted with a synonym and assumed that we would spit in after the collapse of the economy and make a little better and not be a total drag on this cooperation and get us up to 0.42% in 2016. But nothing is done with it. We're stuck in this number, 0.26, and we'll be out of it. I think it sucks, especially when we're a rich people and we live in a country of great wealth, and most of us have grandparents who lived in poverty and knew what it meant to live in poverty. I'd like to hear a minister's attitude. Does he think it's ambitious enough? He might think of using just a spit into his palms, such as the tip of his hand. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir came in earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who agrees that it is strange to have a place to speak in the position of the professional minister. But this is simply the reality. I'm telling all the people that there is no doubt an opportunity to have a direct word with the minister of foreign affairs on whatever case may concern them if they seek it. I don't doubt it. That is the question of simply installing it. Regarding that question, discussion, and meditation. A senator brought in the development aid, so it is true that we have set certain goals. So far, we haven't trusted ourselves to catch them. What I pointed out to a member of the council earlier was that, according to my information, only percent increase is estimated from 0.25 to 0.26. You're right. It's supposed to be the end of the period. We can certainly do better. I completely agree with the view underlying by the ocean. Senator. We can and should resolve these matters. However, I would like to remind you that this is done in various ways. I believe that we can do more than we have. We have every situation to give people a chance to turn to us for cover and shelter from the disaster that is being heaped upon us earth wide. I'll argue that there will be a considerable distance until we fulfill the proposal and the interpretation as well. A senator mentioned in his case that we protect about 0.40% of national production for development. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a long time before we get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u112	Madam President. I hope to the highest. A minister doesn't think I've mentioned the promotion. I always enjoy talking to this particular minister. Perhaps it would have been normal for a prime minister to have run in, though at least he is the person who is the coat over the entire family. After that, the highest. Minister I'd like to ask, because this is now a Congress resolution made by the highest order. Financial Minister: Would it not have been more encouraging to learn that when this happened, the council would have proposed a new decision and set up new goals, so that at any rate it would be arranged that it is the council that commands how we will conduct our affairs rather than a minister who is going against the current council? I don't know. I'm new and I don't know how to do this. It was in opposition to what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that we have little resources and resources to handle the EEA agreements and the EU and Brussels and all of that. A fine report by Kristján Guy Burgess of Science last week shows that after two Davíð as prime minister of the United Nations Secretary - General, NATO, senior directors of the EU, Prime Minister Danmerk, Norway, Sweden and Finland, president of the French Government, I could continue. At the highest. Since then, the prime minister has not met one foreign ruler who had to leave for an excellent equal convention in New York City that was sure to result in an excellent outcome. Do we not have an amazing need for our heads in the management system to be on the move and to associate with the rulers around the world in the ever - strengthening and dangerous world in which we are walking? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u113	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks if I do not feel that it is beneficial for the nation's representatives to be in the greatest contact with their colleagues around the world. I agree entirely with his view that the more communication, the better, except in the case of the minister of foreign law to discuss the budget of 2018-022. It may be more fun and more desirable for travel to be a little shorter and shorter. I'll take the inputs. The senator rejoiced. I'd like to say from the platform that I'm not going to miss it at all. A senator reminding him of the promotional role. It is primarily perfectly natural to do so. It can simply measure this way so that it needs to be tried. But the key point is in my mind that the council has an opportunity to discuss the relevant issues, the foreign languages, and then this will accompany the case to the relevant committees on this topic. If I mention it, I'd like to end my decision. A senator who gives a word. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, who repeated yesterday's discussion that it is the council that has the legal authority and the council to which it is proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u114	V.E.G. President. In short, I give an account of the financial plans for 2018/2022 in terms of the topic fields that represent me as Minister, i.e. Case areas 7 of research, innovation and knowledge that I share responsibility for the Ministry of Education; topic areas 14 on travel; topic areas 15 on energy; topic areas 16 on markets and consumers, and where I share the responsibility for finance. In short, all these areas of activity are expected to be increased during the period with increasing donations compared to the budgets of the current year and are expected to increase most in transport. I will, in particular, be on the ambitious, forward - looking, measurable goals we have set for each subject. In addition, the plan includes measures that support these goals. In terms of the areas in which I hear them, the aims for three sustainability are being aimed as much as possible to bring them to environmental, economic, and social factors. It is important to keep this approach in mind to determine the context of our goals. Which is known, I share with the highest. Education and cultural minister is responsible for the 7th matter area, but under my department, the group of languages falls into innovation, competition, and knowledge branches. Here it is new that the topic field now refers to facts on the contrary to sectores, thereby developing, working life on the basis of technology and innovation. This is a certain change of viewpoint that I hope will have an effect. Our view of the future in this category is that Iceland will be responsible for research and knowledge, and on this basis, willing to face social challenges. The primary objective of the topic field is the international competitive environment of research and innovation, focusing on quality, transparency, international cooperation and success. Here we have three aims, first to increase production on the basis of innovation, competition, and lower standards, second, to increase the efficiency of solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and negative environmental impacts, and third, to new jobs in national knowledge articles. There we have set a goal of about 3% increase per year, which I believe is an ambitious goal. Our future view of tourism is that Iceland is the preferred destination for its special status, environment purity, professionalism and quality. A road guide for travel services is a good policy we will follow. As stated earlier, the group of paintings is expected to receive a considerable increase over the current year, and it is clear that the projects are devoid of skill, many and varied, including some of them. For management, infrastructure, quality, presentation, information and security. The aims, in the first place, are to increase production in the article, second, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and third, a positive attitude toward tourism, both among foreign tourists and our Icelanders themselves. I'm sure I'll get into this later. In the 15 issues on energy, we put down the vision that Iceland is leading in the development and use of renewable energy is based on speciality and the cleanness of the environment and energy resources, knowledge and professionalism. In this light, the primary objective of the topic field is to increase the competitiveness of energy markets based on economic, environmental and social equilibrium. The measured objectives to support the future vision are first to ensure the balance of supply and demand for the general market, secondly to increase the share of renewable energy sources in Iceland's energy supply, thirdly to balance energy costs for national electricity distribution and fourthly to increase the minimum national protection requirements for national energy output. There are eight measures to support these goals. The government's perspective on the subject area 16 that I share with a financial minister as I entered, on marketing and consumer issues, is on efficient economic activity and well - being on the basis of stability, active competition, transparency and good business practices. This vision is in harmony with the UN's world goal since 2016. The objectives of three types, first of increased transparency, active competition, and healthy business practices, according to five defined measures, are increasing environmental awareness and environmental solutions on the basis of market monitoring and competition and third, increasing public confidence in employment and marketing monitoring. Five measures are given to achieve these goals. I may get a closer look at it, too, but my emphasis is not only that of raising money but also that of new thinking, new emphasis, powerful measures to promote employment life and competitiveness on the basis of innovations and increased reconciliations over various issues, whether it is the development of electronic energy systems, travel services, or anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u115	Madam President. I'd like to direct some questions to the highest level. Minister. The government's financial programme estimates that tourism will move up to the top level of the valuable tax system and deliver some 9 billion each year and 18 billion each year. This amount will decrease something as the top level drops in 2019. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to see what this means for tourism, geographic areas, and various sceptical companies, and what the effect is on the growth of tourists and their consumption patterns. What does it really pay for the state funds when the fall comes in 2019? Is this merely a matter of simplifying the tax system? Independence said that there would be no increased fees for tourism. Then that promise is being betrayed. Will there be any counterweapon measures for the roadfarve companies? I'm not worried about the big giants in the tourism business, that they can't live with this. Has there been a review of attendances? The pay for 2.5 million tourists would be about 3 billion if 1,500 dollars were due. Have a seat on the plane ticket. Will the contribution to the tourist market only increase by 200 million, thus leading to the end of this period?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u116	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's questions are good. Yes, there were other analyses of the impact and consequences of this change. This was done at the Ministry of Economics and with professionals from the Department of Employment at the time. This is the simplicity of the tax system and has been a government policy for some time to try to reduce the number of those on the exception and move up to the general level. It's a system modification. Long term, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Out. I don't know exactly what the forecasts are, whether it's 23/4 billion on the increase in income for the state's funds. Regarding the tourist market fund, 200 million more are in there and will be out of that period. However, it is no longer possible to watch the tourist attraction fund alone; it is necessary to take the country plan into consideration. We're putting money in it and suggesting, if the bill gets through the council, that we take out areas that belong to the State and that such projects are totally involved in the national programme. That's 200 million bucks. In addition, such funds can be set aside for rural society and private property. So it's more of a game to play for them. So we have a national plan, as well as the idea of the projection fund that it is just a control device to set sails across the country. In this regard, the territory has also been identified. But I feel that it is important to learn that governments have special eyes in the country. Government policy is to distribute tourists throughout the country. I think it might be more helpful, since the decision has been made to bring this sector up to the general stage, that we then have specific actions for the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u117	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It would be good to know where you can get these tests and walk them. It has been observed by tourism organisations that there has been no consultation with the tourism services and that this is done well in advance and preparation and analysis. The government now announces a energy exchange programme until 2030 and to increase renewable energy sources, that the share will be 40% in 2030. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is, in fact, an increase in energy exchange funds and meeting UN climate targets over the next five years? How much money is earmarked to that class? It says there's a decrease between 2017 and 2018 and, only, as I read it, five thousand million. K. during the period. It would also be interesting to know, since there are a lot of plans to be responsible for innovation and research, what money is actually meant for this. That's all of it under the 500 to 1,600 million. K.? Also, I'd like to know about the equation of energy costs. Now the land is on fire at enormous high costs of energy and is able to settle it in the country, both in homes and in businesses. What funds are estimated to cover the total cost of energy in the country? Is that what's been done in five years? How much money is meant for that project? Is there any amount of money available, e.g. to energy save homes and companies? Are there any coins of earmarked consumers to support the activities of consumer protection in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u118	V.E.G. President. I appreciate those questions. There's a lot of them and a lot of them for two minutes, but I'm gonna try to come in on as much as I can. I forgot to answer in advance about a different type of remuneration for plan of the sink change. I think we're not talking about returns and no natural passes. In other words, the success of the journey was a factor in terms of remuneration. With this in mind, the industry is making more money, even though it is not a profit tax, but it is assigned to bring this tax to its own tourists. With regard to discussions, it may be difficult to negotiate tax increases. This is a process that was carried out at the Ministry of Financial Affairs and for access to data there, I would expect the Ministry of finance to be of assistance. In terms of the energy exchange and the Senate arrangement, there are many measures that then stretch out into the various departments. With regard to climate, the issue is the responsibility of the Environment Minister. The energy exchange is one factor underneath. We are, for example. putting money in the infrastructure across the country in association with an electric car - drag operation. There are, for example. Sixty-seven million who now go strong and stay. Because of a new creation question, it will be emphasized, but in my mind it will not all turn to more money or need it. We have a Technical Development Fund that has gained additional funds, and this also focuses on rethinking things differently, setting the matter on schedule, because innovation goes against all sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u119	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to a lot of things. First, I'm going to ask questions about the 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. This is a good goal, but I don't see that carbon balance costs and other electrical vehicles are going to reach them when they're putting up a contaminated industry, as they've been in the past few years. Can a minister claim that the funds donated to energy are sufficient to cover these targets of energy exchange? Is there an increase in funding in basic research to try to contain the hundreds of thousands of tons of carbon dioxide produced by the new silica plant, and other industrial processes will be released into the environment? On page 18. 231 of the budget says, on permission of presidents: The employment and innovation projects of the Ministry are promoting effective management and monitoring of the work required by the Ministry of Ministers. Today, the United Nations has not been sufficiently funded for long, causing market failures to occur in several places in the market, with bad consequences to consumers. The aims of a financial marketing and consumer programme have many concerns about the economy, e.g. On the subject of professionality and simple rule of order, but I see very little that turns to the Contestation itself. Is there any reason to provide extra funding for marketing? There's also a matter of priorities for innovations. This morning, the highest said. Minister on the matter, we're gonna give you a heads-up. paritaprevir To Trausti Friðbertsson, trust is that financial programs are not the same as budget, which is certainly true. But the answer showed that a financial plan might not stand in the light of financial laws. This is of interest to me, since financial plans should, of course, be put around the budget when they come. [[The president calls.]] I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Part of it like a dog. In effect, I have to refer to environmental ministers, to climate and financial resources on a number of projects there, and to whether financial programs are enough to meet those goals. Regarding the innovation, it's true that I referred to a financial program and said it's not a budget. By so doing, I mean, we certainly have the broad lines of the budget, which, of course, leave all priorities. In the innovations, I've said that in my mind it's not all about the extra money, it's about how we work, what we're doing. We also need to ask why we are doing things we are doing, who we are doing them, and whether we may be doing something today that we do not necessarily need to do. This means that this frame will go through the council, and then we'll get some outcomes from what we in the Ministry will then have to work in cooperation and cooperation with institutions to achieve the financial goals that surface again in a financial program. Not now, but the frame is available, and we try to decide what we will do to reach the goals that will be set out in the schedule. I can't quite remember a question about the Contestant. A senator who enters it in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u121	Madam President. Of course, I was referring to words of why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson before, not why. Njáll Sorry about that, son of Friðbertsson. But this is not entirely acceptable. Now the energy exchange program is at the head of the court. Minister. I want answers about that energy exchange program in view of the fact that I don't seem to be any money to fix this. Of course, I also want an answer about the Contestance Commission, whether it will get the funds needed to ensure that we will be contained in a market failure that has forced us for far too long. You can expect an index of consumer prices to go up to 30% because of marketing failure. This is an important matter. This is also to increase the value tax in the tourism industry, even in the step - by - step operation that I agree with. However, caution is needed in order not to harm the structure that has taken place. So I ask if the travel agency's Office has done some analysis on how the increase in cost taxes in tourism will affect companies in this article, especially in the country. This is also expected to be a cutoff for tourism management in the period of over 150 million. K. I'd like to understand what that cut is. How is this compatible with putting extra charges on tourism and at the same time that there is an enormous need for infrastructure investments related to tourism? There's a lot of stuff in there. So I'll go over this: it's the tourism service in view of the value tax and infrastructure; it's the Contestance Control; it's the energy exchange programme, which I haven't been told about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u122	Madam President. Just a little bit about the energy exchange action programme. It complies with Iceland's commitments under COP21 and is part of Iceland's climate application programme. The percentages of goals match that schedule. In terms of the value of tax increase and the transfer from the expanded access step to the general stage in the tourism service, it was further analyzed and predicted to be effective. I can quite agree that this change will have more impact on my company outside the country which are such as. not as effective in spending night nights as a company in the capital area. I find it important, again, to remind me that all government work is really going out to spread tourists more in the country by setting sails in many parts of the country. We have our eyes especially there. In general, since the decision is made to transfer the travel services into an expanded area, I think it is important that we are concomitantly taking specific action on the region, whether it is a flying funds fund, a tourist sector, or other factors. We're in the big movie, too, raising the number of groundkeepers. To help with this, you need to shovel the roads more often. As for the Contestant Control and raise the budget, this is the big one again. Then we'll go to the job of setting priorities for that kind of money. Whether the Contestant Watch will need extra money or how they get their priorities will become evident later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u123	Madam President. In the national budget discussed here, it is strongly felt that the importance of building up the infrastructure after a difficult period of time in the years of collapse. It is not only in the transport system by building roads, ports, and airports but also about the importance of building up our electrical systems, especially transport and distribution systems. For this reason, I would like to have a conversation with the highest level. Minister on these aspects of the 5th energy issues. It is particularly enjoyable to see that the government puts it as priority in ensuring electrical security and strengthening the transport and distribution systems of electricity in Iceland to meet the demand and development of energy use for the next year. It specifically refers to two sensitive areas in which rapid structure of these chemicals is essential, where I refer to the West and the North Side. We are familiar with examples of a concerted effort to address important structures. We know this from what we're working on at this time in a nation's fiber - optic industry, Iceland light-related 2017. That's why I'd like to hear from the highest level. Ministers of the government's plans and aims to strengthen our country's transport and distribution systems, including to improve urbanity in the country, speed and confidence the potential for employment development and improve the quality of life of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u124	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I can say everything he went through. There are many major projects ahead of us that need to be addressed in this regard. The structure of the electrical transport system is a large matter that is of special importance to the region. You're right. A senator entered in on a coordinated effort. If we allow ourselves to approach these projects with a similar type of work and mental attitude and to be done in the optics, we can do it more quickly and possibly for less money, at least This calls for a new thought. They had doubts that the fiber - optic project could be attacked, but it became evident that it was possible. That's what I hope for. I just want to name these big cases, we'd like to work on three-phase electricity. If plans are to go along, this will be evident in 2034. Of course, that's way too long. If there's anything we can do about it, we want to try it. We also have energy security at a total electrical market. That's a big deal. No one is responsible for ensuring energy for this smaller market, i.e. home and smaller companies. The course is to go to that job. I have called for the discussion that the matter must be viewed in a large context. We were already discussing transport energy exchanges. There has to be a way to do that all over the country. Today, there is a weakness in these areas that makes us unable to even - when we draw up a vision that humans can combine to follow the electrical power system, not according to that image. [[The president calls.]] It requires great structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u125	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers are very, very much, very much, for a good overview of the case. You're absolutely right. The minister entered at the end of his speech, i.e. the importance of the context of these objects, including On the basis of the Parliament's arrangement for transport energy change. This means that we must follow the whole process. So we have to get to use the natural renewables that are present in the country, we have to build up the transport and distribution system so that we can access transport energy to these targets, including of our commitments to the Paris Treaty. This is one whole language that cannot be torn apart. Therefore, I rejoice over what the Minister has said, assuming that the entire body of Congress wants to come to the job that, as soon as possible, we are going to build a secure transport and distribution system, especially out of a three-phase electricity system that helps to include... Prayer and agriculture by strengthening their business I reiterate my support to the Minister of that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u126	Madam President. I hope and I think it's a song, if we succeed in seeing these issues in context, that when we discuss them, we can make more peace, for example. when it comes to building the power system. There's a line to go. In recent years, we have been greatly distressed by such projects. It is a privilege to be a minister of energy in such countries as Iceland, where the share of renewable energy is the same as it is here. It has great opportunities. It would be good if we were to do this in a more upbuilding way, in the places in which we are in which we are in, and especially when so much is discussed, rather than spending so much energy arguing over which way to go. It's a big case many people need to be concerned about. But I think the next year will be very useful in this structure if we succeed in viewing the electricity system as the biomechanical system that it is, as if a transport system, a communication system, and anything else that must be good for the rest of the country and for people to have the opportunity to create valuables and to live with the quality of life that we require.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u127	A respectable president. It's hard to get everything here in two minutes. But I'm trying to keep out of something. V.E.G. A minister says that there is not always a question of money. I am now happy to hear it, in view of the amount of money I can get. A minister has all that needs to be done. It speaks of high goals, cleaning, and the hurrying of their tasks. I'd like to ask the secretary if she has any ideas about what needs to be done. Will 200 million each year be provided to Richard to speed up the writing process so that it can be done faster or that direct donations from the State to Richard can be made available? Here are eight goals in the energy cycle on page 18. 229. The number of projects is some 1,50,160 million, which is, in fact, close to four to five years. Then there are a number of major tasks that simply include setting priorities and not setting a dollar in. One of them is e.g. to use and detect opportunities to reduce the use of energy from heat sources. A very interesting project that requires money and comparable work done in the Western Islands. I had this introduction so boring, Madam President, to the highest degree. Because in 2018 the donations are raised 62 million to 2019 but since the government has also set up a 2% standard every year, if I have correctly understood the cost to this team in that year 74 million, i.e. The minister has 12 million less to take up a new assignment, the huge task she was talking about earlier. [[The president calls.]] So I agree with her that it would be good if things could be done without money, but it would be interesting to hear the minister's way of doing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u128	Madam President. It would be great if you could make a lot of big cases for my money or no money. Only with respect to triphosphate, a three-phase electricity. They're working on it and we're setting up a team to identify options and make proposals for an update to the electrical transport system in rural areas, focusing on electricity expansion. The current projections on the transport of electricity in a three-phase distribution system extend up to 2034, which, of course, is incredibly long and difficult to claim is compatible with some urban policy. But the cost of triple possession is one of the things the work group will consider and submit. With regard to maintenance, 2% is put on a complete cover, but that is a process of extracting the maintenance. Where it is will be considered, if something needs to be spared, and it will affect elsewhere. That's an update we'll start working on when this plan has received its political treatment and has been approved. The same is true of the projects I have mentioned that we want to attack. It's all about where the money is going to go, how we're going to set priorities. We won't be able to do everything, but here are these emphasises. By saying that you will put it first. But it's true that all of this will cost money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u129	Madam President. If I've understood correctly, there's 2% members on all sides except health and aging that's half a percent and unemployment insurance and zero social security. If I understood a minister correctly, this may be a 2% overall, and some ministers, or group of litigators, may escape. As a matter of fact, I'm going to find that men can set the requirements for some other agency. But if there's to be a claim within the Ministry. Let's go to the tourism service, which is certainly greatly improved between 2017 and 2018. Again, the output goes up to 2019. Then a significant amount of 220 million should be dropped and the plan held out is maintained, i.e. 220 million less. I know that there are ideas of the money going somewhere else. But at the same time, this team of 47 million members, 2%, are in those years. I don't expect to be the highest. Ministers can go to this team to find the priority and the money in the building of energy issues, in energy exchange, in electricity compression. So it will be difficult to bring these matters to the ground. So I want to ask the highest. A minister in regard to the travel service, which is our largest industry, and he gives us considerable money whether it is not bloody to be a minister of the travel sector and to receive a small share of the large budgets that are funded. You can also ask the highest question. The secretary of transportation of this question. So the question is: If all this money comes to the state from the tourism service, 20 billion more from the government to the state than last year, and the billions do not go on transport, and not in law and health care, which the Minister admitted in the past could become more difficult, how does a management of raising the valuable tax to distribute tourists across the country? [[The president calls.]] Or is it just parking expenses for tourists to be controlled?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u130	Mr. President. The reduction in the latter part of the period is explained by the release of the Air Development Fund after these years. Still, this increase is higher than in 2017. The estimated 16 billion are, not 20, to be maintained. It is true that the value of the tax system is not a tool for accessing control. We're good to go. This system change is proposed and reduced to an upper level, which will also benefit everyone. Despite the tremendous amount of investments, we are still putting extra money on the transportation system. I'll first talk about it well and long before the investment hole in transportation is a project that is very big and difficult to figure out. There is, however, increasing financial growth in transport, health care, and the priority for the government is for health and welfare. Similarly, there is an increase in funds to law enforcement. These funds are especially useful for tourism or are put in places where the number of tourists, mostly in southern and northern countries, is high. The distribution of tourists to Air Development Fund and tourism Fund We're trying to set sails across the country. If this bill on tourist position management is to be established, I hope that this will put a travel minister with some kind of control device in order to try to implement the direction shown, e.g. ... froma guide. It is a challenge to have a minister of travel in one place, and then to make transportation elsewhere, and to pay taxes and taxes in another place, the environment, the parks, and all of this. That's a major challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u131	A respectable president. I'm going to make the subject of one of the lawsuits at the highest level. Minister hears, which is travel service. I must first say that I find that most of the goals presented here are fine in that they are measurable, timed, and quite clear, and obviously desirable. So I want to make one of my goals a special topic of conversation. I admire a bit of the minister's courage for volunteering. This is the goal of chapter 3 on travel, which says that we should maintain a positive attitude toward tourism. I'll admit, I have rather a positive view of travel services and the effects of tourism in Icelandic society. I appreciate those groups walking around the East and showing people the history of Icelandic democracy. I like to come to pools where people speak in all languages. In fact, I have an understanding that when people tour the land and at times do things that living things need to be done. However, it is a big deal and not easy to just maintain the positive image of tourism, but to increase it, as the goal is that it will be 65%, or that two thirds of the country will be positive for tourism in two or five years. That's kind of ambitious to me. I'd like to hear how to do it. A minister is going to get it out and to see if she thinks it is the financial strength that she is given enough to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u132	Mr. President. Yes, there are ambitious goals set out there. However, the prerequisite for long - term development and growth is that the general Icelanders have a positive attitude toward it, just because it extends its fragrance throughout society and is not so that men sail to sea, pick up fish, and then land and work. The tourists go everywhere, like hell. A senator entered, entered the communities, is in great contact with the general Icelander, drives the roads, going to the places, etc. Ways to contribute to it are many factors. Of course, the article itself is responsible and has a lot of responsibility, but so does the government. What governments need to do is attack what is called for. If nature tolerates e.g. not some particular number of tourists in a particular location are required to step in. If it calls for some kind of control, it has to be that way. Banking is one way to steer. But there are many ways to control travel in an area, and that is a major matter that we need to consider. We're about to start work on the boundaries. Iceland's positive attitude toward tourists and tourism, and its range of endurance, whether it is natural, environmental, or social barriers. It's the social boundaries that I'm actually more worried about than the natural. Places can be built so that they can tolerate far more tourists than the other is a challenge. We must be careful not to lose it from our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u133	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. I agree with her that good access control can be the key to this. I wondered, " Is there any other way that I can do that too? ' Then I'd like to ask you briefly one point I cut in and about my surgery. This is probably the 2nd transport objective, which is an increased area of research and innovation for sustainability and increase in worth. One of the measures used is to reevaluate participation in international cooperation in order to promote more targeted planning, level of knowledge and effective management. I always get a little nervous when people talk about reevaluating participation in international cooperation. They can be repeated in a number of ways. The British were now, for example. to reexamine their participation in the European Union. There are groups that want to revise their membership in Schengen. I am, for example. not ready for that review. So I would like to be assured that when it comes to reevaluating international cooperation with the goal of increasing research whether we are sure to have more cooperation rather than to reduce the cooperation we have already been in. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u134	Mr. President. There are other ways to promote the Europeans'positive attitude toward tourists. I think we've come to the point where people need to feel that they're organized in this article, and it's a government thing to do that. I have at times felt that we are doing tasks that are somehow in the chain, tasks that arise from time to time, and we will respond to them, but we are in my mind to get the religion that so big a profession needs to have. That's what we need to do. They also need to make some decisions. I think it's all part of the fact that the average Icelander remains positive for tourists because his positive attitude is diminished and that's a concern. I know that the average Icelander is well aware of the economic benefits produced by this sector. People feel the changes in their skins and the benefits that come to them, and indeed the whole country, and perhaps the especially inhabited by new opportunities, new forms of recreation, and new recreation with them. I can assure you what. A senator's goal to reevaluate international cooperation to promote progressive planning, level of knowledge and effectiveness in administrative matters is not isolationalism. Really, it just means that this is one of the things we need to reevaluate because there are many things that are ahead of us. We are now dealing with what many other countries have already faced, and to a greater extent, we need to turn to them and learn from them. I can calm down. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u135	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister said that she was going to conduct research and innovation into higher heights. I would like to ask if she is not concerned that the university is not meant to play any role in this journey. This is to increase the path of knowledge analysis by 3% a year. I'd like to ask if it would have been closer, if people really wanted to go to tax shrinking at this time of filing, to have a handsome reduction in insurance right away, instead of lowering the value level, perhaps it would have been useful to the ones who took advantage of intelligence alone. But before the elections, the packs generally spoke of other rural groups getting more. Now the charges have been paid, and more and more are being paid a little for the raise. In what way will it benefit a community? It's the highest word here. Ministers for flying development funds and other means to guide tourists all over the country, but are not rural communities best equipped to control it by attracting people instead of pushing people to specific places? Would it not have been wise to make wise use of money? Today's science shows that Government Accounting says the government agencies responsible for travel are in the open, the right hand doesn't know what the left will do. In order to improve efficiency, perspective and administration of this article, the minister announced a review of the order of travel. Is that how you react to this review of the Kingdom? What will be the introduction of politicians, members of a travel agency, institutions in the regions of this work for this review?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u136	Mr. President. I've previously said that I feel that host tax is the kind of thing to remove, or at least become, one of the tools the rural communities have for themselves to be authorized to lay down on. Parking costs will also be very helpful to locals. I couldn't agree more. A member of the council that this structure and this offer for tourists should be the basis for a member of the countryside. There is no better way to do so than the local people themselves when it comes to it. The marketing agencies also play a major role there, the communities themselves, and the so-called DMP projects, i.e. A policy strategy for the part of the country, we're working on it now, there's money in it now. We will emphasize it. It will continue to be the priority for the next semester. That's important. I agree with what. A senator needs this on the basis of his community. With regard to the administrations in general and consultations and other matters, we have a management center for travel ministers involved in the seminaries, and we have the article ourselves there, and we also have our rural communities. It is a good setting to discuss the issues and policies that governments take on or that the article seems to be missing. As far as I'm concerned, I'll put my hopes at the CP. Only from this assessment, it is not correct. I can't see that the Government's Accounting talked about the lack of control in this regard, and the same is true that governments have failed to respond to these indications, because when the previous indications arrived, the management center was not even the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u137	Mr. President. I would've liked to be the highest. A minister would answer me these two questions about the value of the bonus, whether it would have been better, if men were to bring up structure to innovation and knowledge, to further reduce insurance costs. And the other: If you're not going to do that in what way will this increase of respect run into a country partner? It also showed that Iceland is to be responsible for environmental energy efficiency and we are simply going to be responsible in all aspects of this financial program. This is beginning to remind us of the adventure of the nail soup, that man is going to make the perfect world out of nothing. Actually, I don't believe in this. Only about the energy exchange. I'd like to ask why a man is inaccessible with 1,250 to 2,500 cars? We all know who will make the first cars, of course those who have money. It'd be great if it was the highest. The minister answered the question. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir with regard to the equation of energy costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u138	Hv. A senator asks this question about changes in a sink and whether it would have been better to lower insurance bills instead of to lower the upper level. It has been observed that the estimated cut-off of insurance is in the season. [[Up front.]] I know that they're gonna say it's too hairy and not clear enough. I can totally agree with that, and to my mind it is very important that it be done. With regard to the valuable tax on rural society, it's true that credit is running into government funds, it doesn't run to rural society. Regarding a question -- we no longer have market income, and that's not so that the compensations that will be turned into the state fund are earmarked by the means that x-rates of them go to rural society. [[Up front.]] It's not like that. But we're trying. I've got this opportunity to work really hard, that at the same time we're going to go to the infrastructure needed for travel services and for tourism, whether in rural or state or private areas, an increase in landkeeping and growth. We're promoting law enforcement, we're setting up extra funds for health care, and that's all that matters. That's right. The sink isn't going to a country partner. There is no requirement for x-rate labels to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u139	A respectable president. After a little study of my comments about the President's conference board earlier, where I told the prime minister that I have influenced the votes of the senators, I readily admit that I have probably been wrong. I blame my prejudice against the prime minister there. I don't trust prime minister. His speech with the members of that council was in that it seemed that there was more behind them than simple correction of the mistakes that new senators can make in votes. So I concluded that there was more to it. I have no doubt that the members of that council have finally turned in their vote, but because the prime minister came there, I concluded differently. I apologize for that, but that's how distrust works, and that leads to wrong conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u140	Mr. President. The government budget aims to protect some 4,113 billion dollars. to the 34 topic areas for the next five years. Of these, four are in whole or in part the responsibility of the minister of justice. There are courts of courts, rights of individuals, religion and the administrations of the Ministry of State, the realm of public security and justice and basics. During the next five years, the goal is to spend some 240 billion dollars. to these four topic areas, or less than 6% of the budget. The increase from 2017 budgets and the 2018 financial budget is about 3.4 billion, or about 8%. The increase between budget 2017 and budget 2022 is 16%. The increase will be new to strengthen the foundation of the Kingdom. Of the individual tasks within the topic field, the highest will be required. Special attention is given to the minister of justice: National Court takes up the work at the beginning of the next year. There is also the establishment of a new administrative office of all the courts, a court of law, which will be brought to nothing at the same time. The construction of the land's rights is being accomplished. The economic impact of a new court order is about a 35% increase in budgetary contributions in 2018 based on the amount of funds and funds provided in 2016. An increase between 2017 and 2018 accounts for less than 29%. There is also a financial programme that also allows for the implementation of the new legal hearings that support electronic hearings and electronic transmissions of data between courts. The legal record has thus been a major weakness in the activities of the district courts, but it is vital that the three courts, along with the prosecution, the police, and the general institutions, bring together electronic treatment. During a financial program, there will be fewer than 134 billion dollars. Secrets of public and justice. The increase from budget 2017 and budget 2022 is about 20%. In recent years, additional financial resources have been funded by the police, with an increase of 34% since 2013. The amount of money has even increased. Faced increased pressures along the border in Keflavík, increasing the number of policemen on national levels, and renewals on equipment and equipment. For the next five years, the aim is to secure legal funds, allowing further emphasis on law enforcement in line with the rise in the number of tourists. High - level surveillance is an example, but it also highlights Internet crime and violence. At that time, the effort will be made to build a border guard, an important part of national security. There are also three new helicopters that are to be bought for Iceland's National Reservation Guard. The current helicopter situation has reached its age, but with the renewal of the helicopter fleet, economic security and efficiency are increasing. With the new helicopters, seafarers can come to the rescue and do more stress on land, e.g. due to increased tourism. The aim is to increase the psychological and therapeutic management of the country's prisons to further improve the adjusted quality of court tolerance to the community after abduction. It is also working out how to connect the information systems of the institutions of the justice system electronically. In this way, perspective and agreement may be added, paper costs, and a large amount of data security. Human rights, religion, and the government of the Ministry play a vital role in rendering individuals service and securing their basic rights. There's a significant increase between 2017 and 2018, or more than 16%. This is mainly the case with the unprecedented number of applications for asylum in this country, at the end of 2016, the totaling of 1,132 applications was 354 by the end of 2015. This increase has to be expected to continue in 2017, considering that in the first months of this year more applications for asylum have been received than in the same months in recent years. At the same time, continued fluctuations in the litigation category must be expected with an unforeseeable at expense. V.E.G. Ministers of Justice have declared that it is a priority to stem the increase in trust groups into Iceland from secure countries, such as Albania and Macedonia, and to reduce the cost of the security system. In order to accomplish this, the secretary of the Council has proposed a judicial hearing to cancel the right to postpone the legal action of applications for protection that the Foreign Institutes clearly estimate unrecognizable, will be established permanently, as we discussed earlier. Then, new alien laws indicate that financial incentives are reduced for individuals to seek hither with unfounded shelters. Already, efforts have been started to shorten a period of restitution without the effect of careful court treatment, ensuring a quick return to the people following a rejection of asylum. The previous major changes in personal protection have been made in this area for 20 years because of the implementation of a new European protocol in the field of personal protection. There is a need to provide financial protection beyond the scope available in the topic field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u141	A respectable president. I thank the minister for his history and agree with her that in the case of the Minister of Justice, the foundation of society is extremely important. Therefore, it is important that the funds are provided to support the framework needed to ensure the safety and rights of the citizens. I just want to step on the helicopters that are available to buy, as shown by the minister's case, which is a long-term step that I think we can all celebrate, that the weekend service will finally have adequate choppers. It raises questions, however, that have been raised in discussions with other ministers, how operating costs and stock costs are combined in this program. It has thus been built into the budget of the Public Security and Justice area of 14 billion funding for the purchase of new helicopters, but at the same time, this box, is increasing by 13,876 million. A look at these figures suggests that the helicopter will eat up all the increase to the seminary. That is why I ask, " What about all the other things? ' What about the 200 officers who would have to figure out that we had enough design for the police? What about operating on these helicopters so that they won't always be in the Mediterranean like the new fancy plane that's got in the goose? What about the added ability of the police to investigate Internet crime, sexual abuse? What about all this if the helicopters eat up the whole 14-mills? There won't be money to promote it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I will try to answer as best I can. As for the helicopters, it is more practical to buy these helicopters than to rent them, so it is as if you can argue that it was always right to do, despite the possibility of having more money for the management, which, of course, is not good to neglect, but it is such a business thing as it is decided to invest in these helicopters. With the police and the police being added 400 million today, they are being added to the box that came into court in the first and the minister of judicial hearings has said that there is a special emphasis, such as. Violence like a whale. A senator came in. Over the past few years, there has been considerable increase in financial contributions made to law enforcement, which was certainly a great need and most likely could be spoken of as being lacking. However, from 2014 onward, 500 million were first introduced, particularly involved in promoting jobs in the country, and it was attached in the frame, so entering 400 million, there was an analysis of where the need was most needed. The result was border patrols, and visitors have been the most growing tourist attractions. Since it has now been committed, it is combined with a considerable increase in funds that will be effective and include. magazines on such projects. A senator came in, as he mentioned regarding acts of violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u143	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer as far as it goes. The state of the National Guard today, in its pattern, is that the ships are tied to a dock, and the aircraft is rented abroad because money is not enough for business. So I don't see how the increase for the next five years from this core point, an increase all eaten up by helicopters, is going to turn into a better business in this category, which covers not only landkeeping but law enforcement and other things. Then I'd like to ask about the issues of 2, the courts. If we look at the cumulative expenses during the period of about 361 million, this area will be reduced. At the same time, however, it is designed to take up a new interjugation phase, a national court, with one of 15 judges and all that follows. National rights alone will cost 600 million a year. When the influence of the new court order is fully achieved, states the proposal, the financial impact is estimated on some 700 million people. K. every year. These are additional charges that need to be located in the frame. Where, when we're cutting the box about 361 million? Where are we going to find this? Are we going to cut to the Supreme Court? Aren't we going to cut down in any other court? Aren't we going to make all the tools he needs to be the powerful interjugation we want him to be? A new level of judgment is 700 million a year, and we are cutting down in judicial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u144	Mr. President. I hope I'm good at this. The total cost of 2,385 million in 2017 and 2,923 million in 2018 was given. So I can't see that it's an operation, it's an extension. [[Up front.]] In general, it is aimed at strengthening the management of the mortgage during a financial program to cope with less income from foreign activities. There is a 35% increase, and there is a priority in judicial matters. It's true that the National Court takes a lot of space there, but he's there too. Of course, when it comes to justice in Iceland, new judgment levels are major decisions and major issues. National rights are completely financed. It is very clear here that because of the nature of the courts, they need to be noted, when their wishes cannot be met, that there are various tasks they wish for, and that they cannot be met, but the Constitution is in, and the Court takes up the next year's work. That's where the priority is. It's an increase in funds. Now I don't remember what I was going to add. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u145	Mr. President. I intend to have a place to speak at the highest. Minister of Justice on the standards and goals contained in these chapters of this financial strategy that address its topic issues. However, I find it a little difficult to find out exactly what I'm going to discuss with her because these criteria are not there, they're strange and difficult to understand, or just no object to find that these criteria are to be used. For example, measurements are being started at the time the police have to take action on the field. I'm amazed that it's not already done, there's no room for police response at signal. Am I right, top dog? Minister of Justice, or highest standards. Minister of Justice, that there are no police recalls at this time and that were not? Is that what you can read from this? This is the first thing I find curious. Another reference that I find strange and more odd how to follow is that an independent commission set up to monitor the police work should be carried out in accordance with the law. She began her work on January 1, 2017. I ask myself, " Is it the standard for her to respond to her minimum role, to work in harmony with the laws she is going to work for, to find a better goal than the minimum? ' I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I would like to ask, "Is there 200 new officers in this period, as the police have requested? " There is no information in the program on whether capital will be spent, but this is a very low chapter when it comes to some kind of disintegration of costs. I can't find a single breach. It's all taken care of. I ask, "How is that an ambitious ambition for the highest degree? " Minister of Justice that we don't see a single number of one dislocated teams here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u146	V.E.G. President. To intervene in the police inquiry and whether they do not know what the response time is, I understand that it is such that the police are familiar with the time, but here they are going to work exactly and prepare a precise level to hold it. I'm sorry, I can't talk about what goals are like. However, there has now been a long-term legal programme under which law enforcement plans, prosecution's plan, full schedule, and a court plan. There is a policy for all of these institutions. Law enforcement program is on its way. I understand she's coming into the council next week. She speaks very well with this course. It can also communicate, so when a major operation is in place in one area, it affects the other, of course. That's why there's an overall vision. They will likely talk together about financial programs and the goals and text found there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u147	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I am still curious to know why the policy or aim of an independent police committee is merely that it should work according to law, whether we have only a little more ambition there. In terms of police speed measurements, I find it strange that there is no cost - analysis. There must be some way to determine how much it will cost to put such a measuring device to a police level. I don't understand why there isn't one single number in either chapter that turns to the highest. Minister of Justice - Excuse me, perhaps two numbers in each of these procedures there. It's not the only cost analysis, and it's my job to understand why. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to the prosecution. This section shows that there is an increased stress on the prosecution due to the arrival of the National Court and that the State's attorney will be subject to increased monitoring of hearings and specific research procedures. But as with other teams, even if I can see from this document on page, there is no expense plan for that goal. 186,187 to add two prosecutors to the state prosecutor's office to respond to the National Court. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he really believe that it is enough to add two prosecutors to meet both the objective of performing jobs in the land's rights as well as to reduce the number of paints, as one aim indicates, to each prosecutor from 35 to 25 cases? Is it really enough to add two prosecutors to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u148	V.E.G. President. Only on the committee. The reason for such a goal is that it is a new committee. We do not know how cases will enter the board of committees. It is important and good to know that this committee has begun. This is the goal of a new committee, and they do not foresee what sort of cases will come in there. That's why this is the goal. Regarding whether two prosecutors are enough, there's an estimate that this is enough at first. This is an addition to what is now. For further numbers and more detailed analysis, this is a statistical and diagnostic form of a law enforcement program. It will lie and enter the council next year. It is the Minister of Justice to determine when that plan will come, so I cannot make a precise date on it. But it is important that all of these plans are a series of revolutions in the system and a great step forward when all of this is going to be in existence. It will then communicate well with financial programs and show long - term cards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u149	A respectable president. I'd like to welcome this opportunity to speak to the highest level. A minister of a matter dear to me, which is the law. Strong and efficient law enforcement is one of the cornerstones of the democratic community we live in and want to maintain. The importance of strong law enforcement could be discussed by many factors, such as sexual crime, domestic violence, Internet security, and police discretion, and so on. But I'm going to emphasize the law of the country in the light of the changing work environment as a result of increasing projects and increasing their multi-changing projects. The best positive development is that the number of tourists in this country is increasing, and they are increasing in the country, throughout the country, especially in areas outside the rural area, all the way to the highlands where the increase has been most. The law has often been directed to the local population. As tourists arrive, police pressures increase, to form on border patrols. A significant funding has been added to the law enforcement departments in the past few years. First in 2014, with a special 500 million. K. ... andbacklastyear with 400 million. K. a donation. However, on both occasions certain projects were put first after the diagnosis and review of law enforcement status and projects were considered priorities. There was an increasing number of police in the country, so they don't have to work on their own to shorten the time of response, increase the border safety, and improve the training and equipment of police to enhance their ability to react throughout the country. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to see if there will be a continuation of these priorities and if they will be made permanent so that the law will be organized throughout the country according to that schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of this passage and the question. You're right. The importance of law enforcement is too much to talk about. The law is one of the priorities of the budget. To answer the first question: Yes, this additional step is expected to be permanent. It comes in addition to the increased funding of the past few years. This year police and border officials will increase by at least 30. For the next five years, the aim is to secure legal funds that may further emphasize law enforcement in line with the rise in the number of tourists, as it were. A senator came in. As I came in earlier, there is an example of this. Also, Internet crime and violence are emphasised. There will also be efforts to build a border guard, which is an important part of national security and increased requirements for border protection on the basis of international commitments, including the area of the Schengen Association. These include new data and information systems, services currently operating, the use of police equipment, and the cooperation with customs services to install a new welcome system for passenger information and an automatic border gate. This emphasis on the border factor comes from a professional analysis of where the need is most. The conclusion was that it was at the border watch, and particularly in areas where the number of tourists has been growing. It is worked accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u151	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers and thereafter wish to make the publicity of police funding and the way they look at it based on two factors. Out of the border patrol, tourists and traffic through Keflavík Airport come in. But there's never been an extra donation. The airport and other activities there receive additional contributions according to the number of tourists, but since the law is supposed to be funded by funding, it has not been able to directly link it together. It's the airport interests and the tourists that law enforcement is able to respond so slowly and also to keep them safe at the airport. This is the case, how tourists need to be monitored and funded, without making any particular decision. However, this is about the growth of police in the country. We often talk about traffic security. The work of traffic security programs has revealed that four out of five road accidents, driven by speed drive and drunk driving, can be prevented by increased police surveillance. It has to do with the emphasis we discussed in the previous answer. Therefore, I would also like to know whether both sides are not seen, both in the case of Cheflavík airports and then increasing the safety of police by increasing the cost of government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u152	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I can say with what. Senator. It is important that we take into account more clearly the new reality we face because of the growth of tourists. It is important that the system itself, whether viewed by local health care or by police, snow or anything, think that it is a changing reality because of the growth of tourists, and it is happening, but it is important that it becomes more so. When it comes to plans, priorities, and projects that will arise, the project is more varied, different, and different because of the better - going tourist activity. Regarding the questions about Keflavík Airport and traffic security: Yes, it will continue to work accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u153	A respectable president. I would like to begin by saying that I find this form of conversation at the Parliament quite amusing and lively and would have liked to see all the ministers of the government being present. But there's a lot of responsibilities. I would like to start by grab down the section on the courts on page 5. 113 and only reflect on the funding of these projects from the amount given. According to a plan, in the courts there are less than 3 billion, or 2.9, in 2018, and even less in 2022, or 2.8 billion. When you look at the information presented in the document, you wonder how the government plans to achieve its goals in relation to these amounts. On page 18. 117 is even Talk about the aim of access to courts as a payment, a procedure that is efficient and righteous and human rights respected, etc. On page 18. 114 reports a significant increase in recent cases and cases in the Supreme Court. This trend is likely to continue, so the cost must be increased. Another factor described in these data is that the duration of treatment for the treatment has increased considerably. As a result, I assume the cost is increasing. There is evidence that there is an increased need for specialised participants. I'd like to hear the highest point of view. Minister on that. In view of the amount of money involved, how should this be achieved in agreement with what is predictable? [[The president calls.]] How does it work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Courts in the Supreme Court will reduce by three, and cases in the Supreme Court will be reduced as well, but they will certainly move differently. This will increase the number of judges by 12. The pay cost of specialized judges is financed. I'd like to focus on it again and mention that 700 million are expected. K. I'll go to the Country Court. At the same time, the new administrative center will operate. The financial impact of new courts is a 35% increase in budgetary contributions to the 2018 area, if the amount of funds and funding is paid in 2016. The increase between 2017 and 2018 accounts for less than 23%. So I bring in another assignment facing the district courts, that is the new legal record that is also being worked for and that is of great importance. It supports electronic hearings and electronic transmissions of data between judgments. The Index has been a major weakness in the activities of the district courts. Therefore, it is very important for the three trials, as well as the prosecution, the police, and the general institutions to put together electronic treatments where documents and other electronic data can be sent. To meet this, local courts need to update the case logs and set up reporting equipment in sound and image to play in the National Court and the Supreme Court. But the priority in the courts is clear and go 700 million. K. In the land right, as I came in. It's financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u155	A respectable president. It is interesting to know that this is fully financed by the fact that it is on the page. 116 is around 116 in the middle of the page that financial programmes are not sufficient to finance such plans, i.e. The new agency. So I want to ask a little more about it. This is above the headline on page 8. 116. Besides, there are other cases I'd like to come in on, time is actually pretty short, but it's about prisons. I'm letting go of law enforcement and D.A. I agree with a lot of things. My colleague, Vilhjálmur Árnason, said here. For prisons, see page 1. 180 more and more waiting for a very long time. I know the government has some plans to do better in prison. But when you read through the documents, it's not very convincing, i.e. A sound and image do not work properly together. We have discussed prison cases at the General Assembly, and all of us agree that we need to stress more. That means we need more resources in prisons to build people up so they're ready to come back into society. We want to reduce the number of returns in prisons. But those who have, e.g. Visit Little Lague knows that there's a very poor building there, and it needs to be cleaned up. The efficiency of prisons in this country is just not good enough, nor is service to prisoners. I would like to ask: Do Ministers believe that the amount of money we see here is sufficient to make a subject of this suit? I'll return to the courts and mention the residence of the County Court here in the downtown town that's getting really bad. I can't see men taking such projects into the equation and worrying about it, especially the state of prison in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u156	V.E.G. President. I can agree with that. A senator came in on the matter of prison and reform. The Minister of Justice highlights these factors. The aim is to increase the psychological and therapeutic care of the country's prisons just to promote a better and more successful adjustment of court tolerance to the community after abduction. It is important in so many ways that these individuals may be given the opportunity to get on their feet before they come back into society. In terms of the Court's office, the budget received from a cost assessment by the law on a new level of judgment is not to be increased by it. Only with regard to the economic effects of a new court order. There is a 35% increase in the budget made to the topic area in 2018, with the amount of funds and funds paid in 2016. The increase between 2017 and 2018 accounts for less than 23%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u157	A respectable president. In the legal field of justice ministers, there are many and important lawsuits, such as those regarding the city's legal security, such as courts, police, prosecution, National Guard, Social Security, Search and Rescue, so you can name something. Just like others, I would like to continue talking about the new level of judgment. Councilmen have only established their presence. The National Court will begin working next year, and as soon as it is prepared, certain amounts of money are spent this year. How important it is that when a new judgment step takes place, it is as if the new institution, known as the Court's Commission, is in good condition! By permission of the president, I am here to quote just what is said on page 18. 116 of the budget where people need to be educated and qualified: It is considered desirable in advance to be a lawyer, financial manager, information and document manager, and computer scientist. Then comes the following: The range of budgetary budgets is not sufficient to finance such programs. It's what worries you. So I must ask the minister how to handle this. Is the minister convinced that the funds placed in this new interstellar phase and the new judiciary are enough to bring about a successful start for these new important institutions and to play a vital role?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u158	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the questions. Only in the case of the Court of Justice, the budget is the same as the Council of Doom now and this 22 billion. K. Added. It is true that the Court office feels that it needs more and that there is no room for that. Whether I am convinced that this is enough - I allow it to be referred to a minister of justice and in a discussion that the members of the committee can apply to the minister of the committee. But to reiterate it, this addition to this topic is a great one. This change has a tremendous effect on our system, on our rights, but it can always be done better. This, of course, is a tremendous change, and how important it is to rejoice over what is being done!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u159	A respectable president. Thank you for your professional minister of answers. I'm sure she doesn't have the answers, but I trust she's going to get these concerns and messages to the highest level. Minister of Justice. I'd like to go to another show that concerns three new helicopters to the National Reservation Guard. These are very expensive devices, and it is said that the estimated cost is up to 14 billion dollars, that is now quite much. That is why it is very important to make the most of this investment. Again, you go on the financial agenda and on page 20. 181 says, with President's permission: Sadly, though, there is little room for the ever - growing crews on helicopters and watch ships. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it wise to spend so much money on an expensive machine that is hard to control? I'd like to follow through on this, saying: In this context, have we been tested whether and how to use Nick's helicopters to care for the patient plane and thus to make sure that the current environment exists? While public transportation is certainly in charge of health ministers, does the Minister of Justice intend to look at such alternatives to the problem and thus become the new helicopter in mind that they may be necessary in addition to the national security system in this respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u160	V.E.G. President. Just about the helicopters: That's right, it's an enormous investment. I came in earlier that these three helicopters are more practical than renting them. It is a good decision, then, that we finally do so and are important. There is an additional amount of money in the business, but it can be agreed on when it does. A senator asks if it needs more. It is possible to make good use of both the watch ships, whether by ship or by ship, by increasing the number of the crews, by ship or by helicopter. The need is so great that despite improvement, this is not enough. As for the ambulance and the helicopters, it's in the hearing of the Minister of Justice and I'm also with the Minister of Health. Like what? In fact, a member of the council was involved in the matter of both the Ministry, or perhaps this task overlaps. I expect members of the Parliament can have a conversation about this subject and ask the minister further about this job on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u161	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to say again at the highest. Minister, this time I'm interested in discussing the prison custody system or the justice system. I have observed three cases within the framework set by the justice system, that is to reduce recurrence rate, to increase psychological and health care to prisoners, and to shorten a waiting list to prison. However, after reading this program, I lack information about how these things will actually be carried out. First of all, it is said to reduce the frequency of return to prison, but I am still on page. 187 referring to a 24% return rate in Icelandic prison, this figure is based on Norwegian comparative studies. That's why I'm asking the highest. A surrogate minister whether it's really so that we build the numbers of a comeback in Iceland in the Norwegian language, because as we hopefully know and the highest. Minister of justice is considerably different in the North countries than in Iceland. I'd like to have a significantly more accurate source, but here we are when it comes to the same important issue as this one. I can't see how I can confirm whether I can reduce return rate if I can't trust the numbers that are standing here. There is repeated reference to increasing the psychological services of prisoners, but there is no reference to the kind of reference used to determine whether there was an increase in psychological service to prisoners. We know that just now there is only one status of a psychologist who works at a prison facility. Why is there no reference here on how to increase the number and how much? Should they be two? Should they be five or ten? Where are we? Finally, Mr. President, it is referred to as a goal on page 6. 187 running a waiting list in prison. There are 550 on the waiting list, but there are no criteria or goals for the procedure to shorten the waiting list. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: Isn't it a requirement to shorten the waiting lists? [[The president calls.]] Why is there no basis for this in the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u162	V.E.G. President. As for the comparison with the North countries, I understand that the explanation is that methodology is the same, but the figures are not there, the figures are placed at the local prison authorities, but this is the case because methodology is the same as the comparison between the North countries. You're right next door. A senator who is here reviewing the aim of increasing psychological and therapeutic care in the country's prisons to promote a better and more successful legalization of the community after abduction. The number of prisons on Hólms has increased by 30 since 2015 and by more space in the prison system and by the evacuation of community service and electronic monitoring in the new law on the ultimate punishment will be involved in promoting a shorter waiting period for penalties and less penalties. With the induction of family secrets and increased funding for social and psychological advice within the jails, which is also part of the correction, we hope to adapt more fully to the community after the end of prison and thereby reduce the repercussion of fractures and repercussion rates in prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u163	Mr. President. I thank the secretary's answer, although I did not necessarily need to hear virtually word - correct what is being said in this program, since I have already read it. What I was asking was why there is no reference here on how we're going to expand our psychological services. How many doctors will we have on duty in prisons? Will we stop using addicts in prisons of tranquilizers, such as prison guards there choose to call it? Will we offer a better ministry? If there are no criteria to compare with that, how will we determine whether to offer a better psychological service? It does not mean that we now have 30 extra spaces to throw people in without having any aim of increasing the number of psychologists who do this work or increasing the number of doctors who monitor the health of highly responsible prisoners, Mr. President. Other than that. I'm going to use this last minute of my life on this day to discuss only refugees. On page 18. 195 is the standard for the decrease in the proportion of unfounded applications from safe countries from 61% to 5% in 2022. I heard the highest. The local justice minister suggests that financial motivation should be reduced for individuals from secure states to seek hither with unfounded applications. That's why I want to ask the highest. standard minister of justice how to do so. How will she achieve this goal without flagrantly violating the rights of people? I reiterate that I want the answer to how to reduce the financial motivation of people to come here with so-called unfounded applications.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u164	V.E.G. President. The questions were many good, very detailed, but they were of the nature that I must direct them to the minister of justice. They involved political policies and also contained points that will likely be considered when the goals are implemented and in the work that will follow. I refer to members of Parliament who will be able to have a conversation with the Minister of Justice on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u165	Mr. President. I find it interesting to discuss things that are not in this financial program but should be there. Of course, it reveals a lack of respect for those who have the worst. On page 18. 117, for objectives and measures, including Talk about increasing access to courts, improving hearings, and making them more efficient. There is, however, no comment on how to do this except on the number of cases, species, and treatment rates. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on whether or not she feels that it is too time to change conditions for the sake of slavery. Now an individual has to have 1,600 you. K. or less a year in order to have a right to a husband and wife or to a couple of 2.2 billion. K. It's obvious that people with considerably higher income just don't have a chance to hire a lawyer. For example, in the previsibility of 1 to 1.5 billion evaluations. K. Every year, that's outside legal expenses. So I ask: If a minister agrees that it would be very necessary to raise these income criteria to ensure equal access to the entire city's system to the judgment system and whether it would give them the highest indications. Minister of Justice seeking ways to give all citizens of this country a chance to take advantage of the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u166	V.E.G. President. What you can't find in a financial program I can't talk about here as a substitute minister. Regarding the sensibility, the question is likewise that I cannot answer, I don't know what vision the Minister of Justice is on, whether it needs to raise the standards, and whether it agrees. A senator or not. But I promise you that the message will go to her in the right place. I hope so. A senator and a minister will be able to have a conversation about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u167	Mr. President. We must be able to talk and to discuss things that have not been in the schedule, especially when they touched our weakest brothers and sisters. I don't think it's unfair that a minister, even if she's not the minister of the seminary, would answer to that question in general just as to whether she feels normal and if she feels it's right to raise them. Another group that is very fragile and that seems to have been forgotten at all ends are refugees. The government covenant says that more refugees are to be received. How should this be handled in the financial program? It would also be nice to know how the financial programme is expected to improve the quality of this group. Iceland and I know this for ourselves, our ancestors not long ago had to flee the country, of course, because of a great deal of other causes and other difficulties but now face the blessed refugees who come here. But do you not agree that there is a need for a more permanent situation, a housing for these people? Is it not the smallest thing we can show, a rich people who live in an abundance and who not long ago needed help from other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u168	V.E.G. President. I can agree that it may be important to discuss what is not found in a financial programme, but I meant that a minister's replacement may not be able to comment on why some things aren't in the financial program because this work was not done by me by a justice minister. With the abjection, it's probably in the Minister's opinion to raise these criteria, so that it comes out, that's an answer. With regard to the hostilities and the seminary, that case is at home under social and housing with the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, not the State Department. However, this report clearly shows that there is a difference between these groups. It is called starting work to review this value and to work out suggestions for improvement. In terms of housing, they're being employed according to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u169	A respectable president. I propose to the Council's board that immediately after Passover break, the two ministers who could not see fit to attend this discussion in person will be called. Although both ministers who had a surrogate role for those abroad did a fine job, the answers were mostly thin, and they actually occurred twice at the highest level. Minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir, Gylphad, told me frankly that she could not answer certain questions. I believe it is reasonable that the council completes the discussion of the two non - minister's affairs so that we can ask questions about the depth of the Minister, who has the political authority to answer us. So I'm referring to the president in part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u170	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and also directed to the president to consider that the two Prime Ministers who could not be with us today will return to the Passover holiday. This is especially important to me because, despite the fact that communication with a minister can be particularly useful in committees, we do not all know the access to those committees, and it is quite important that the minister's viewpoint be presented here. In spite of some good answers and comments from the highest, I was greatly disappointed. The surrogacy that my last question was allowed exactly no answer. However, my questions were not that difficult, in fact, they turned to the key office of Justice Minister of Justice, and I find it normal to find answers to how we should really appreciate the success of the government when reliable figures are not available, no cost estimates, and no criteria. I think it's normal that a substitute minister should be able to answer for that, but since he can't, I wish kindly that the Speaker himself would get the Minister to answer for this respectable document. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u171	A respectable president. I have to agree with the two of them. Councilmen here mentioned that despite some good and helpful answers from the highest level. The local minister today had not been sufficient when it came to very important matters. We're talking about not being the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was able to show up today or the highest. Minister of Justice. There may be good reasons, but I'm going to pick up a meeting of the council groups at the highest. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. Secretary of State will answer Monday after Easter when Easter ends. I think that's normal. It's the sort of group of cases that it's a little hard to figure out which one is the highest. In fact, a minister has the political authority to answer this in the way needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u172	Mr. President. I agree with this wish. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. V.E.G. The minister of the education of Kristján Þór Júlíusson was here and described it well for us in how timedly this document had been worked and how painful it would be. That is why it is usually even worse when the discussion is over. This is not said to be disrespectful at the highest. Ministers running into each other's Pass. I understand that they can't answer the part according to what it says, as if it were a professional minister. At least they're politicians, huh? Senators and Ministers. They're dealing with each other. Therefore, it would be good for them to respond at least how they feel about themselves, because they're acting ministers of the seminary at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u173	The president has listened to the point of view. Councilmen, and will arrange for occasions to arrive at the proper channel for presidents and chairmans of Congress, and will make it clear to the council that will surely make them happy that their pain has been missed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u174	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to have an opportunity to discuss this sect, the social side of the Ministry of Health. I agree with what I've heard here, and I find this very interesting and interesting form of a debate over the budget and look forward to the discussion that lies ahead. In the preparation of this government budget, emphasis was placed on clear priorities for the welfare and at the same time, the maintenance of state affairs during the time of high learning and in the light of repeated warnings of the need for caution there and the poor experience of previous years and decades in those areas. It was a big deal with the project of restoration to the campaign. I can truly say that the plan set out here on the social issues is in a very good pace with the emphasis we put on the campaign and in the management business. More than 13% in terms of the current year or less than 30 billion are being added to social costs. In that case, prices are not included, which, of course, weigh heavily on this series of issues. Health expenditures will be at the end of the period 57% of the total budget and have, I think, never been higher in that proportion. The main focus of the social agenda is energy and the elderly. Energy expenditures increase by more than 14 billion over the period. The main focus is the simplicity of the current system, the recording of the job performance assessments and increased investments in sectoral resources for individuals following the rehabilitation process. Expenses for the elderly increase by less than 9 billion in real value. A significant increase in expenses will be the nature of a case based on demographic development. In addition, emphasis is being made on increasing flexibility with the end of the work, removing the so - called 70 - year government retirement rule, raising the payoffs to 100,000 dollars. each month in stages, rising pension age in stages, and helping older ones to have more opportunities to participate in a workforce, they choose it at a different level. It is emphasized to strengthen the services of disabled persons and to ensure the human rights of that group, to increase support and counseling and to monitor the services of disabled ones, to promote rights and to work to meet our obligations to law and international agreements. It gives special emphasis on our obligation under the UN Convention on the Causes of Disappointment, to provide disabled people with independent lives, and to ensure that they can live independent lives. There we place much emphasis on the legal binding of NPA, or the user - controlled personal assistance, which will be legalized in the spring bill and set in force from next year's conventions. Is it really a big step towards progress that I know? Moreover, it is emphasized that disabled children have an opportunity to engage in leisure activities just as unspoiled children do and that they can contribute funds to this. In addition, emphasis is given on continuing the restoration of the birthworm system, increasing the maximum payment, and promoting the increase in fathers' vacations, which has been greatly delayed in recent years. This is a matter of great rights, even as it was for children as it was for parents, and the importance of children developing a father like that of a mother cannot be overemphasized. In my knowledge, one of the biggest equality cases in the labour market is to ensure that parents have equal ores, thus reducing the angle that women have carried on these topics over the years. In addition, public support systems are emphasized, with better attention to low - paying groups. It specifically includes child reform, child support, and then interest and housing improvements. The labour market puts special emphasis on increasing the effectiveness of jobseekers, increasing support to persons with reduced job skills for job search and the growth in the number of job stations contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u175	Madam President. It must be chosen and rejected cruelly when two minutes are set to discuss this important matter. I'm mainly going to look at two. The first is the highest. In fact, a minister came a little by birth. I must say exactly as it is that I just don't like this use of words, that there's a lot of news going on in obstetrical affairs and that it's supposed to be rebuilt and enhanced. What is here on the program? It is available in three stages to raise the roof from 500,000 to 600,000 dollars. and it is not even scheduled when this will happen. Maybe it is. In any case, it should be three years. There's nothing great, Madam President, about 100,000 bucks. in three doses, from 500,000 to 600,000 K. Now is the time to move the roof above the roof rather than to ensure a minimum of 300,000 dollars. payment for maternity clinics, as the lowest wage is going on, not saying a single word, but, of course, telling silence that it is not possible to achieve any success in prolongation of ores during this schedule, no one? It's totally unacceptable. When are we going to extend the birthworm in Iceland and get us to what the neighboring countries are about, if not now? I just can't accept that there's another five years of drawing because this doesn't happen. In all other parts of the North countries, there is a year or more, and in most other countries we compare ourselves. Number two, I'm calling your housing issues. I find that strange, considering the local housing discussion today and the highest. In fact, a minister himself has called an emergency, that there should be a significant decrease in financial resources into that case at the state's time. This is to be done by the loss of the stock budget or by a further decrease in interest of three years, as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does the state's drawing of billions from his budget into the lawsuit contrast with the situation in housing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u176	Madam President. Thank you. This comment is made by a senator. It's a group of paintings that could never be done better, and there probably is no limit to reaching the end there how we can be more supportive with the community in these areas. When it comes to the maternity hole, we simply had to set our priorities. It is quite clear that the cut that was on the maximum financial floors made the holiday pay very heavy, and we have seen that fathers are on a much smaller scale now taking holiday than before. It has repeatedly shown the importance of raising the maximum pay to reduce the amount of income reduction and their impact on families. Of course, this is true of both parents, but it greatly reduces the drive to revulsion. Therefore, before considering the extension of the system or other changes, we believe that it will first achieve the full function of the current 3+3+3 system. When it comes to housing, it is absolutely true that this is a critical and serious emergency in a housing market, which is primarily about to have a lack of housing. It should be noted, however, that in our plans for making donations to the general population, this is exactly an extension of that arrangement. It must be remembered that the current amount of money, 3 billion a year using proben, has been able to secure in this government budget for 2018 and 2019 as well as the extra budget set in this year, was thought to be a temporary project, a campaign on this market. It is now being extended as permanent resources for the duration of the strategy, with 1,500 million a year between 2020, 2021, and 2022. So that's where I can't say I'm subtracting. It is certainly true, however, that growth improvements are expected to reduce as a result of increasing the cost of money and the stronger property status of the households.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u177	Madam President. Whether the money limit in the affected system is to be taken into account is to be taken into account. If people continue to want direct support for the poor income because of housing, they can do so if they have the will, of course, that is convenient and inexpensive to use simply to let the impairment rules bite. It's a pretty brutal priorities if that group is so extremely difficult, it's been so intense, it's been so intense on the government and the Supreme Court. Minister, reaching another half a billion into him during the planned period, for that is all. This increase is estimated to cost half a billion, and it comes in doses. Now, it wouldn't take a major share of the food stock fund in the income market, insurance fee, to do this. But it certainly takes, probably, a 0.33/4 percentage points to finance a year's extension, but that is, of course, what needs to be done. Speaking of the need, I remember the highest. Minister of the discussion here to create a family - married, child - married community. It is not necessarily a good message being sent to our young people by the fact that they will not be doing anything that is important in obstetrical affairs for the next five years. I just want to mention as soon as I'm of course celebrating the user-controlled bill, and I assume that the agreement between the programme and the cost programme for that bill is that I remind them that there's a disagreement with the local community. Other than that, there is little entry into that group. There is a lot of uncertainty left regarding the ideal disability in the years to come. In fact, there is no evidence that they will improve their benefits until then something in 2019, and there is an air system change and a job assessment recording. So I'm afraid that those who feel that the wait is long there for a share in a better national economy will not find this particularly ambitious, should be waiting in the main order of uncertainty until 2019. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u178	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion when it comes to the maternity room. I have put it first in this work, in this priority setting, to restore just the birthworm system that has been spoken of as one of the most effective birth -ororal systems, both in the North and in other countries, where one of the greatest involvements of fathers in maternity vacations, one of the longest orlofuncators, a system that has suffered greatly in recent years. It is urgent to rebuild it. This is not only, as I said, but also the right child to be involved with both parents but also much more important in labour equality. That's why I think it's the most important priority. Of course, in terms of growth in the financial budget, it has already been mentioned in the current discussion that the cost between 2016 and 2017 is increasing by 53 billion to the actual value of the next year's expenses is growing considerably further on the basis of such factors. for microchip and sensibilities, of course, we are being stabbed in other ways. Therefore, we need to set priorities in these matters. Of course, we will look to how we could strengthen this system to a greater degree of freedom. When it comes to terms with micro-energy pensioners, it is quite true that this program allows for a similar system change to that seen during the past year at the age of 2019, but it is expected that the minimum wage for disability will be increased in the same way as for the elderly. That, of course, is what we weigh into this area next year from 2018 when minimum pay will be raised to 300,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u179	Madam President. I would like to mention that when such large amounts of money are pulled out, it is very easy to hide behind them. But when you start looking at percentage increases in e.g. disability is not that high. The European Commission claims that pensioner status will be deteriorating. The new financial and financial agenda of this government will bring us far away from the North American welfare systems that otherwise are generally at peace with society that we are to pursue. This has happened in very small stages over the years, so it is easy to miss the signal. This government is now crowning that process. It is important that everyone is aware of the consequences of this final step in our community. In the introduction of financial programmes for large built - in spending growth, there are other factors. The increase in disability and the cost of health insurance over-programming. It speaks of a lasting expansion and the need to respond by continuing to promote Kingdom interests and specific projects to increase production. There is no reference to prophylaxis as the possibility of reducing the number of micro- and the disease. Rather, it is acceptable to accept permanent growth and economic measures and to increase production. Then, in the coming chapter, the conclusion is summed up in the ideas behind the financial agenda. In fact, this sentence is all that has to be said. By permission of the President: ▪ Governments have the responsibility to choose between short - term interest and long - term interests, building and saving, taxation and freedom. So building is opposed to saving, and taxation is the opposition to freedom. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this the ideological evidence of the future of Iceland on which it is based? Will the future of the welfare systems of the Icelanders be limited by lower taxes and small structures? In short, how does this ideologies rhyme with the Minister's plans for his office?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u180	Madam President. This is where it rolls. A senator raises a number of interesting questions. Of course, when it comes to the lowest relief, the idealor, the pensioner, it must be borne in mind that although we can always do better and should always be aiming to support these groups more fully, the development of a reward may also be considered when looking to the labour market. This amount is linked to the development of minimum wage, and the cost of minimum wage has never been higher, hence minimum recovery. So I can't say it's a bad job. When it comes to prevention, I take my heart to that important issue as a matter of course. A senator says. It's not a problem that we deal with only by - she used the word "peasy," I say we should always be looking for ways to improve people's quality of life, to improve functioning. That's exactly the point of our policy in these matters, investing much more in job-related resources, investing in the recycling. The health sector is investing in mental health matters just to reduce the incidence of disability in order to help people recover to the level of disability or rehabilitation. It is vital that we keep that in mind. The government's policy in these matters rhymes very well with my emphasis. Priorities are being placed in place for the well - being of the family. We are adding a considerable amount of expenses to the increase already occurring, with interpolitical solidarity achieved in the council during the last fall. It must also be kept in mind when looking at the emphasis on responsible economic management that it is as much of a household's interests as it is their largest income. They were the biggest earners to get the worst in the last down cycle. And it's just the biggest earners that are going to be the worst when we lose control of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u181	Madam President. I appreciate the answers. I just didn't know if this ideologies were going to compete with the highest plans. Minister to his office. I would like to continue and discuss only a few chapters on the workforce, which show that a major challenge for the group is professional disease. It discusses excessive stress in the workplace, that it is designed to increase the risk of various health problems. Stress is also identified as a risk factor for motor and musculoskeletal disorders as well as psychiatric disorders and the pre-existing causes of disability in Iceland. It's a fascinating piece of information. I'm assuming that there's an explanation for the growth in disability recently in Iceland. Is that not clear evidence that there is something amazing in the community? Stress can have many causes. It is known that a large number of people hate their work and would want to do something quite different in their time, perhaps over 25 years of age, and cannot be able to do it because of studying to improve their status. Many find themselves trapped in situations that they cannot cope with because of difficult situations that we members of the Parliament create in the community. The pressures of daily living have become exaggerated because of distorted priorities based on archeological ideologies. Hence, people fall out of a job market and are forced to apply for disability benefits where people are maintained in poverty, resulting in increased stress and disease, making the situation permanent. Why in the world don't we eliminate this vicious circle? What's going to happen? A minister to uproot him? Why do we not try to feed more fully on those who most need community support in order to live with dignity or even to regain health? Isn't that something to save?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u182	Madam President. There again and again there are very interesting facts. This is the point. We are dealing with many factors that contribute to increasing disability rates in the community. The Ministry is setting up diagnostic work on key causes of disability. Specifications are made to prevent or intervene more quickly and help people, e.g. in the context of long - term workacity, providing them with increased support and resources when it comes to young parents'inflexibility around day care and its pressures, especially for single parents in working and caring for their children, length of work time and so on. All of this is an enormous factor. Indeed, it is very important for society to look to what we can do to strengthen the support in these areas just to help people get back to work when they face the traumatic events that may lead to disability. Very important is that Ministry case over the years and years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u183	Madam President. It's a pleasure to be able to have a conversation with the highest. Social Affairs, where he's a member of the community, is probably one of the most sensitive cases we have to deal with here, that's social security. [[Up front.]] Let's see, let's see. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. What I'm going to do is that it was taken a certain step last year to protect older citizens. There was a step in the right direction, not enough large, let's admit it. We need to do better. But we're going to rebuild the entire environment of social security when it comes to micro-piercing. I see that in the financial programme it is assumed that a review of the social security laws will be undertaken when it comes to micropair, valuation, etc. What I want, however, is the highest. A minister left is timed out because it really matters to a lot of people, in fact, thousands of invalids, that these are very important to us, and that we also prosper in the chamber of Congress, getting together and getting them together. I'm particularly worried about young micro-punchers, micro-piercs who have never earned any rights in pensions, etc. We have tried to improve it with age - related microengineering, but it is not to our credit. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's important that we get a little clearer answers on how the minister provides it. [[The president calls.]] What is the time frame, when can we expect us to cope with new laws in these areas? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u184	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Here we go. A senator for a very quick spot on our welfare system, which is this high rate of disability among young people, and we now see that it is especially growing among young men. It is, in fact, striking how fast the disability rate rises in that age group and up to 40. Very often these are people who have no rights from pensions, with very little or no career in the workplace. There we must look to what we can do to support this group more fully, to support its function. Of course, there is obviously a major problem with mental - health service. That is why I am very happy that the health - care minister places great emphasis on mental health care at clinics and in school systems. How important it is that we agree much more with this group in order to cope with this trend! As for our timing of action, it is quite clear, as I mentioned earlier, that we have a narrow cut, especially during 2018, due to the cost of special increases in pension and disability. However, in the months that follow, we will make good use of the time to prepare the change to an increasing emphasis on the quality of the work, working, and presenting it and, of course, implement it as soon as possible. That is a very important project, no doubt one of the greatest challenges we face today at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u185	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answers. They're all right. I can see that there's not a lot of answers to today and a point. But I'm a rather impatient man, for I come from the north of Skavetir, and there we want things to work a little faster. I also wondered, though there may not be a direct part of the budget, whether it is time to make the next financial plan that we look at integrating better and more efficient than we are now making the health system on the other hand and the social security system. You see, I think a lot of things, and I think the Minister's gonna figure it out, or I hope I haven't misunderstood it, or one reason we see a significant increase in disability, especially among young people, is that the health system has failed. Then we in this hall must notice and respond in some way, including When we work on financial programmes and when it comes to the next budget of 2018. I think it's extremely important that all of our systems that we would like to have strong for our weakest fellow citizens working together. They do not work together now in the way we want them to do. That is a challenge to the highest degree. Minister of Social Affairs, the highest. The health minister, the government, and the entire Senate are on the verge of integrating the health system and the social security system and developing a social security system that stops punishing our weakest people when they make an effort to improve their own interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u186	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion. That's exactly where we'll meet. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's nail, so to speak... [[Upwards: at last.]] At last, there was a time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's right. It is of utmost importance that there are very good cooperation between the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs and, indeed, other factors, such as the Ministry of Economics and the improvement systems there. Of course, we can invest in the health system, which saves us considerable expenses on the social side and vice versa. There are some resources that we have on the social side that can save substantial resources for the long term. It is our duty to ensure that we take the money as well as possible, support this group as possible, and that our right hand knows exactly what the left is doing, and vice versa, and that the interaction of these factors is seen. It's, for example. An obvious example of investment in mental - health services is probably one of the most efficient tools we can use to combat the incidence of disability. Similarly, investment in rehabilitation, physical therapy, and so forth is one of the most effective ways to reduce disability and help people back to activity. As a result, our integration is of great importance, and we health ministers have discussed these matters with us. A five - year plan was to be very ashamed, but it is to achieve the cooperation so that we can maximise the use of funds and make sure that we are actually investing in the right places to support this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u187	A respectable president. It is to speak quickly when so many questions need to be asked. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on whether or not the comparator of older citizens is safe and ensures that they can keep up to 1.2-1.3 million a year in employment, although they may still be making changes in the holiday market. What will be the interaction there? Is it not certain that there is money under the national budget to ensure half of their pension to everyone they want with no income restrictions? Second, I asked if the minister considered the possibility to eliminate all the problems made in hired pensioners, since some of the interests of both the elderly and the younger ones who might be renting from the older ones could be combined. Third, I'd like to ask the Minister about the founding proposal, that's an explanation for their reduction, but why does that amount seem to remain in the notes anyway? Likely, this one and a half billion will be less worth after three or four years compared to today's values. Does he believe that this one and a half billion can meet the needs of the social system and including students? So fourth, where's the money in thegressors according to the national budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u188	Madam President. With your comparative rule, I'm assuming that you are. A senator applies to the rule to ensure that people in the old system are at least the same value as the new one. I'm assuming that the rule will be maintained by the changes we are introducing, and so, of course, commitments and expenses in the five-year program, including just part of the pension policy and that it is funded. I find this interesting to be an interesting idea of decommissioning income restrictions on the renting income of the elderly or some sort of vacation markets there or whatever might be used. It rhymes quite well with other ideas that some of the solutions to a housing market may be to stimulate rent - rent markets and, in particular, to encourage people living in big homes to rent out more easily. It might be taken into account in the context of that strategy, and I find it very interesting to hear this idea. For the support of the general apartments and the one and a half billion that is expected to flow to this latter part of the period, there is, of course, real - life numbers that will take in prices over the period according to how prices will be developed. Today, we find that housing prices and construction costs are raising considerably more than the general price. During the latter part of this period, we may need to look to the extent of the development of this budget. The objective, too, is to counteract this massive and rapid increase in prices and to facilitate the construction of less efficient, more efficient units than we may be living today. I hope that's enough funding. I'll just admit I can't remember the past, but the money's there. It is assumed that there will be a significant increase in the duration of the programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u189	A respectable president. I thank the Minister very much for his answers. I think it's very important that we try to find the money with the vagrants. It is estimated that it costs 5 million to receive at least 250 million people, so if we are going to take over 50 as we have been doing in the past two years, each year, that makes at least 250 million, so the amount should be found somewhere in the plan. If we're talking about 100 refugees, there should be 500 million, and we can figure out a higher number if we're going to increase them. So here it is a considerable amount of money that I have found nowhere in the text, even though I have searched for it. Then it would be good if the minister could tell us when he intends to present a bill for an increase in a pension date. It is designed to start the rise up to 70 years and to some extent, new donations should be provided into the system. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, in which we are discussing a considerable amount of free money and it is very enjoyable to see that a minister has increased the provision of housing benefits in line with the rise in social security during the years: Is financial management expected to ensure that housing may be improved in line with the proposed increase in the social security system? In his speech, the minister mentioned that changes in child - care and child - welfare are being made. It was shown that even with the same income, the amount of money required to balance the support of people in pensions and those in a public labour market was a great deal of money. It has been suggested that the situation would be exactly the same if it was intended to match the support of the labour market with what people receive through social security. Has this cost been considered? So finally, the violence business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u190	Madam President. I have to admit, I'm obviously not well enough yet at a state's accounting fund, except for that. A senator asked so many questions in the second talk that I needed to keep a close eye on them. I hope I get it all. In this period of 2018,2022, the 50 - to 100 - in - the - season saying, is expected to be at the end of the period. There's a budget for this. In addition, funding is expected to conform more closely to the reception of capitalists and refugees who are being protected than on their own terms. So both are expected. Of course, with regard to the provisional limits, we are afraid that they will follow the rising sum and will take care of it. Now you're getting all limey... [[My child's pension.]] My child's pension, yes. In fact, that project is just beginning. You're right. A senator points out that this may involve considerable costs that are not yet expected in this program, and it is not clear what the outcome of such revision would be. But this is a very important project, for it is, of course, absolutely necessary for us; it comes back into the microenergy business, that we have comparable support for the poor people regardless of where income comes from. We can't really be sending them messages in a difficult situation and saying no to them, unfortunately, we can't help you unless you're on disability, we can give you more support. There are very wrong messages in my mind, and it is urgent that we consider how we can revise this arrangement and put support independent of income. With regard to the violence issue, there is a fixed action programme that will be expected to be submitted to the council in the fall. She's a treasurer, I'm told.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u191	A respectable president. In custody at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is one of the little cases that have been brought about here, but it's the last talks, but that's the immigrant case. You see, it is often so that the prisoner in the matter of immigrants here at the council is often associated with the minister of Justice and his suggestions and words, but it is, in fact, my opinion that the next urgent step in this matter should be made up of this sect. In fact, a minister of justice is a bit like the porter, but all that happens when it comes to the country as far as immigrants is concerned is more likely to be a social and equal minister. Government policy declarations require that people from countries outside the EU should be able to go to Iceland for study and employment. A minister can be confident that when he comes to that topic, he will find my quietness and my breath at the back of his head. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister of something that came up in a question earlier about a number of code-worshipers, i.e. how it is with the expected contributions. What is expected to do for many? I wondered, " Is this figure in any way connected to a number of self - seeking people who come here? ' Finally, I would like to ask a minister about the primary points he has proposed for equal management in a labour market, in a position equal to the national background, and in connection with these issues, whether their induction would be expected to result in some cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u192	President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. As I compare in my previous reply, there is a chance of increasing the number of vatrophobias from 50 to 100 to the duration of the plan, while also giving additional support to those who come on their own ways and receive protection. This is extremely important. Of course, like other nations, we have a rich obligation to assist. Europe faces refugee problems of such size that we have hardly seen such a thing before, at least not since World War II. Of course, there we must lift like other nations. Yet, success is essential. It provides the key to providing funding for household search, job search, language study, Icelandic education, etc. There, I think we've done pretty well when it comes to eaters, but it's a shame when it comes to the group that comes here on his own. There we must look to how we can better coordinate this service. It's a good idea for us to receive one of them on a red carpet, but for the other group, when he gets a visa, we'll say, "Good luck." That's where we really need to get better. And there's a very large number. I believe this year, we can assume that up to 180 refugees could be given an extraterrestrial visa on the basis of international protection. This group has grown dramatically in recent years and seems predictable only that development continues. That's why we're putting a lot of emphasis on this. The second question was... [[Up front.]] No, they are not expected to be at high cost, but this is a very important issue in general and when it is decided on a global scale when it comes to Iceland in comparison with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u193	A respectable president. Thank you very much for the answer. It's a pleasure to hear that there's an increase in the number of people in the host country up to 100, I agree with that. For any reason, the number of zeros. But I'd like to think about something and get the minister's viewpoint. I ask him if he would agree with me that it's our great fortune to have done in many ways, no matter how high the trade of immigrants we have come here. I see that there's a goal for the proportion of unemployed immigrants to be 3.5%, but this is now 4.5 percent. It has to be acknowledged that in the international context it's quite good. It is a pleasure to find out that during a financial discussion, we do not have to spend much time discussing how much burden come from immigrants into Icelandic society. I hope it's me and the highest. Social Affairs Ministers agree that this is the opposite. That is exactly how we need more people to keep growing and prospering.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u194	Madam President. Yes, it's a very interesting suggestion from what. Senator. The prejudice in this discussion is so brief that it is being claimed that immigrants are a burden on the welfare or community in some other way. The opposite is true. We would never have managed this economic growth that we have gone through in recent years except by the massive influx of immigrants who attend. We are fortunate enough to have one top if not all of the highest trade importers in the Western world. This is a group that is coming here primarily for work, generally doing quite well, and contributing enormously to society. In addition, most standards suggest that they use the welfare system much less than the locals, so to speak. The swamp does not have any evidence to support it. This is important in this discussion. But this does not change the importance of caring more for immigrants'jobs. There's a variety of damages in our system. It is often difficult to qualify for education; it is not acceptable. We need to look to how we can overcome any obstacles there may be. We know this in the medical system, in specialized functions. It is often very difficult for people with very great experience, very much and good education, to gain it appreciated here, and to get a job that is appropriate at this point. How important it is that we improve in our activity!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u195	A respectable president. As director of the welfare committee, I would like to focus on matters that are especially entrusted to me. On that occasion, I have decided to have a conversation with the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities despite the call for me to participate in all discussions. It is always good to know that people are interested in hearing what I have to say about matters discussed here. I've been reading a financial plan with magnifying glasses, especially those that are a subject we're supposed to be working together on, in a good setting, in which it is a matter of concern about people most in need of our assistance. I admit we have a lot of work to do and the highest. A minister has set many goals that I would expect. Here in my previous discussion, I'd like to discuss matters related to disabled people and micro-energy pensions. As we know, there is a community group that needs an opportunity to be dignified and deserves to experience respect in the systems in which it is dependent. The plan has much to do with the ability to work and independence. However, in order to perform a work-effective and independent evaluation, it is in my opinion that a reexamination of the biofuel system or social security is necessary. The financial program discusses the simpleness of the system, an action that is very ambitious in my opinion. I wish for the highest. A minister deals only with how he envisions that such work will be carried out and how to cooperate and cooperate with e.g. Companys, various organizations, and health committees will be arranged. We know, for example. that more of a service related to microenergy pension is given at a local level with special attention to social assistance. Similarly, I wish to hear only about the legalisation of NPA and how cooperation with rural society will be achieved so that we can perform a more legal fixation than the adjustment that has already taken place. All too often, we have heard of the gap between state and rural society that, unfortunately, has left people between systems and gray areas, which are simply in a very bad place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u196	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. When it comes to the simplicity of the micropower system, we first look at changes comparable to those made in the pension system, which is actually based on a single species of pensions rather than on a number of previous ones, as well as the decrease in percentage of 45%, regardless of income. But then the council took up 25 of you. A dollar-free share on all incomes. When it comes to both of these systems, the disability system, and the pension system, it is of utmost importance that we look at them as the right motivations and that people who are trying to get back to work are trying to return to work, enjoy the benefits of it, and that they are not already cutting. However, in the biofuel system, there is still a dollar worth of cash, which is very harsh, not to mention strong, and it is very important to change. Here, too, it is important to communicate with another person in this system of ours, like what we do. A senator, in particular, mentioned local societies and social assistance. In fact, there are a number of other options. When I look at our disability pension system, I sometimes feel like someone is throwing a hot potato between them. It is not a matter of looking to real resources. Eventually, we resolve the situation by ensuring forwards with a penal waste of disability. But we invest too little in other resources to help people work again. This is what the coming revision will focus primarily on. With NPA, I have to enter it only in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u197	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Then I'd like to speak to the highest. Social and equal minister on the issues of the elderly. As he came into it, this is a similar example, and we need to do better there. I'm just gonna read up on the plan, with the President's permission: ▪ The forward vision of the topic field is that older elderly ones receive full quality of life and can earn their own money, especially from pension funds and/or employment. In addition to public support, those who are unable to pay for improvement from social security in accordance with legal rights. By means of funds, services, and the support of government agencies, the elderly will be able to support themselves and live their own lives. I admit that I am very happy that we will set such a vision for the future and note that the goals that have been defined measurable here are increasing the total income of a pensioner and increasing the employment of the elderly and the possibility of a flexible retirement. I'd like to hear from the highest level. A minister of how he envisions that we will pursue these goals, how fast, and how steps will be achieved. Then there's the last and maybe the easiest question. I just want to get into housing and housing. As we know, the housing market is a mess and is drawing many of our clients to poverty. Although there are little discussions about financial goals and measures, two goals are set, with the permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The people of the land have the opportunity to have their own housing and to have a choice of living arrangements. 2. Simple housing support We've just gone to an apartment loan fund and got a little introduction to a new role there. I wish to hear from the highest. A minister whether he believes that the changes that will be made to support the goals set out here and how he will see that his goals are going to work out. If an opportunity arises, it may be good to hear what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u198	President. Maybe I'll get them to go back to the area where they left off on NPA. In a gross way, it is nearly double the budget available for this class and, therefore, greatly increase the agreements that can be made and legalize the ministry as such. Here's the biggest problem still that we're blinding to the ocean as to what the demand for this service may be. It's expensive. There's still a disagreement between state and rural society that has to be solved, it's urgent. But I also think there are two important viewpoints to watch. We're securing life for people of our own, and eventually we're also making sure, that I think, much more human, but more efficient measures. It enables people to live in often their own homes instead of staying in some local service apartment. Many rural communities feel that this is a much better service and also more efficient one. For the elderly and the whole arrangement, I think it's urgent. We are at this time now that the public pension system is taking over the community's pension expenses. It already carries over 70% of that cost and will increase in proportion over the years. But we are still struggling with the environment that it has not become a complete system. During the years that follow, older ones will be greatly improved by increasing pensions. However, we need to bridge not only by strengthening our social security system but also by increasing our flexibility so that the elderly can continue working if they can and benefit from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u199	Madam President. I think it's quite clear that we have to support much better with the poor and the 6,000 children now suffering want in the future, both on the grounds of justice but also on the basis of the economy. It is painful to see that many homes are growing faster than wages and pensions. We need to get tenants and young people out of the rented poverty trap. That's why I want to ask the highest. First, the minister's attitude toward two of the Parliament's resolutions and a bill from the United Nations, on the one hand, for the rent of one apartment, which does not solve a major problem but can be the driving force for long - term renting of people instead of having apartments in the tourist market, and for building a thousand apartments from 2018 and for the next three years and adding several hundred apartments a year beyond what the Ministers are going to do. I think we're still suing it when an independent party and advance sold off the labor base system. We need to build a social housing system. I'd like to ask a minister about that. I think I'll let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u200	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of these questions. Our priority should always be to fight poverty. We're a very well-endowed society. It is vitally important and painful to think that there are many people in this area who are in need. Yet, what has blessedly been with us in recent years is a great source of strength in the economy that will help us in this struggle. We can see as we look at the points that the Strategies Watch holds on us to aim in the right direction, even though we truly need to do better in these areas. Just when it comes to health problems, disability, and housing status, we see the strongest link between poverty and poor conditions for people. How important it is to support such ones more fully! We have previously discussed our ideas when it comes to recycling, growing investments in resources to back up people's activities, which is extremely important in this context. But there is also the matter of housing. That's where I look and support the entire mind of the building in the general apartment system. I think it's very important and urgent. The options came through the card agreements of 2015. I'm pretty familiar with that from my former jobs. In fact, in this program, we are helping to ensure permanent treatment, not just a task of action, but a task. I think it's very important. The building of a social living system is not a major project. It is to be a permanent project. With regard to the ideas of the United States on bringing tax freedom on renting one apartment and improving into the general system: we are doing a comprehensive study on how we can further expand and contribute to the increased supply of housing markets and are probably looking to their ideas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u201	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister said earlier: The last collapse was the worst of the income, and the worst situation will be the worst if we lose control over the economy, the economy. That's what worries me. Of course, this spending rule would be useful when the economy is swollen, but if we looked forward to contractions, I think it would be the same with the exactness of this group. I'd like to ask him a little bit about whether he wasn't feeling normal that the decrease in the growth reform and child repair system was increasing. Everything's getting more expensive. Not least the cost of housing. And finally, the thing that a bright future spoke of most before the election, the law of NPA, which is extremely good and essential. It's going to be legalized right now. But there's a problem with Njörður's gift that the state pays 25% of the cost, which is thought to be 30%. That's 270 million people out there. As a member of the countryside, I know that rural society cannot be offered indefinitely to accept a service that cannot be fully valued. It will simply lead to failure to succeed in the way that it needs to be done. I think it would be difficult for us to settle down with our farms and fund this resources so that they will really improve for the people we really need.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u202	President. Maybe I'll steal a few seconds to fill in my answer about the housing issues earlier. Although the greatest challenge today is to build up this general living system, most of it is to increase the supply substantially and ensure that the availability of low - cost, cost - cost, suitable little units that are especially suitable for young people. The point is, if I answer along the way, the housing support and the growths and possible changes to the reference height to take into account the increase, I think we need to revise this support system with the awareness that it is primarily a force for the income and the first buyers. In fact, for a very long time it has been critical, our support system, for the way it goes too high, and ultimately few are useful to a degree. We have to look to it. In terms of the budget policy and whether it's too tight for us if we slow down in the economy. I'm stressing that this is a national budget plan for the economy that assumes continued growth in the economy. The interest rate is growing, but the growth is growing. If the case was to become much worse, it would be necessary to revise such standards to make room for action. As for MPA, I repeat what I've said before. This is an extremely important resource. There must be peace between the state and the community how it is financed. I hope that we will succeed in doing what is being legalized and in increasing donations to do so. Finally, I want to thank you for the most interesting and practical discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u203	A respectable president. Then it's the environmental and resource issues. They are of great importance to me and to the government of the future, the restoration and independence groups, as shown in its government covenant. The financial program that we will discuss here tonight is also very clear. Climate and environment are tightly enfolding into many of the topic areas, which are essentially a cross-cutting subject that all management and decision-making needs to take into account. One of the major issues of the programme is planned for a 100% increase in carbon taxes estimated to be on January 1, 2018, and the possibility of increasing green taxes in the rhythm of climate change and environmental stress. Another major environmental issue is the implementation of a climate control programme and its follow-up. Although the climate is in my head of the Ministry these weeks, there are, of course, a number of other important subjects on our mind. I would like to first mention the overall plans for the protection of the central highlands. Also measures to deal with the growing pressures of tourism and how we ensure sustainable use of land, recovery of ecosystems and protection from nature. Similarly, during natural years of monitoring and prevention, there is a tremendous need. The risk of natural hazards and property has increased substantially over the past few years and will continue to increase with increasing number of tourists, the impacts of climate change and increased seismic activity at headquarters. The Environmental and Resource Ministry therefore makes the following focus for the next five years: First, we will be in operation and implementation of climate initiatives for Iceland until 2030 in order to meet the Paris Convention regulations and shape climate policy to 2050. The plan will be implemented in broad cooperation, including with other departments, Generals, firms and the public. The outside of the project is in full effect, and I will soon consult the council for a command in its task force. The plan of action is aimed at being ready for the end of 2017. Second, we must reinforce the management of sensitive and important areas through the construction of relevant infrastructures, peace descriptions, management and protection plans, as well as a specific plan for the protection of the highlands that will be used to prepare for the establishment of a central national park. We aim to increase the number of peace-informed zones by ten to 2020 and to form the state-of-the-art regions of the country with respect to their tolerability thresholds for the same time. The Environmental and Resource Ministry is distributed 400 million. K. up-to-date development programmes for the protection of nature and cultural memory. The Ministry is also assured of funding to complete the construction of a guest room on Lakejörgjörður National Park, on a local church monasteries, in 2019 as well as in completing the expansion of a guest room and other projects on the Hill in the Field. Third, the aim of all land uses and agriculture, such as land transplants, forestry, or recovery of introduced wetlands, is for nature's protection and protection of biodiversity. These criteria should also be based on the foregrounds of all climate activities related to soil and vegetation. Fourth, the green economy and the sustainable use of natural resources are emphasised. We aim to initiate the introduction to a so - called cycle economy system that specifically prevents waste production and contributes to an increase in valuables as natural pressures are reduced. We are going to keep up the watch and protect against natural threat, to form a network of monitoring systems for it in areas defined as a priority area. We also aim to complete up to ten projects by means of floodwaters prior to the year 2022. Fifth, focus is on simple regulations and increased efficiency in administrative institutions using electronic solutions, as well as on integration of projects and improved cooperation with organisations. As the financial programme shows, contributions to the environmental issues are expected to increase by over 1 billion since 2017,2018. I think it's a very positive thing, and I'll promise that I can follow my Ministry's priorities as planned. Increasing funding for government projects is not always the right way to further action. They must first show responsible financial management and maintenance, priorities and integration as possible before the requirement for additional donations is set out. [[The president calls.]] However, I would also like to stress that environmental funds often provide long - term benefits, for doing nothing requires more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u204	Madam President. At the top. Ministers of the environment agree on the importance of environmental and climate issues, and I expect it to be very interested in progress in the next 4How5 years. Our objective in climate is at 2030, which simply means that these thin years of financial planning will cover five of the less than 13 years of policy living, i.e. nearly 40% of the session. Obviously, it is important that he be used to the full. It is important to remember that we know enough to waste our energy on further discussion, analysis, and a total increase in the amount of direct surgery, as well as that. Because of the short time, and we are still far from reasonable goals, I am stressing, measures, past or intellectual jobs. The budget provides a number of environmental objectives in ten pages with five main priorities and ten goals, many of which pay a price, although it is difficult to see any longer that such a serious matter can be committed when it comes to the end goals and even the routes there. All of this costs the money listed there. The five - tablet statistics are empty, and only one number can be evaluated in financial matters. It shows that about a thousand new million are entering the 2018 sector. That's very good. Thereafter, however, donations decline from year to year and then increase the two final years by 200 to 300 million. One hundred and twenty-six thousand dollars. the environment that last two years are a sign of too slow a trend. Thus, a five - year - long [real] project to reduce emissions and bind carbon as well as to construction of national parks and agriculture is not sufficient. This amount would have to be at least double, even triple. [[The president calls.]] The money they have is the best place in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u205	A respectable president. That's right, we do what we do. A senator has discussed the environment many times, and I think we agree. That's the right thing to do. Senator. I'm sure we want the way of the Environment Ministry to be the most than two. Hv. A senator came to see that he did not consider the financial support to be sufficient for the next five years to be a source of the great work we are about to do. But as it is proper to mention that from now on, we are adding about 1 billion. So that means it's more real, too, doesn't it? We've got to keep it up. But between years of age, there's some kind of flutter. I would like to set it up so that first we need to ask: What assignment do we have to do? Then we need to ask: What money do we need on our assignments? I think there's enough money in the climate. For example, many of the measures there do not have to cost so much. Of course, the tie, the land transplant, there will be an increase in budget. But I've made a living, and I've talked about it. for the job life, e.g. frees much of the industry here, that it also meets Icelanders and the public, even though it pays its green taxes in the ETS system. There are various means of financing. Of course, we who are in politics must do well, but we must also protect against exasperating the balance account too much. [[The president calls.]] Or at least it does not mean that spending more is a personal goal in itself. [[The president calls.]] Let's look at their assignments, look who they are, and do them well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u206	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We're not talking the same environment language. It is simply so that if we look at the funding given to this category in 2016, 3.4 billion in nature protection, forest and land healing, 3.1 in research and monitoring, 3.5 in the management of waste, protected against nature's 1.2, control was 3 billion. If we put everything together, with the exception of our administration, it's about 11 to 12 billion. Then we will consider the next five years, about 1.3 billion. If we divide five into that, we have about 257 million a year to this party. In accordance with our objective, this is simply too small. It doesn't matter how you turn this money around, it just doesn't work out. Also, we do not have the goals we have set for ourselves in climate and environment. There are also extras in the game, as they sometimes say. We are going into a possibly large - scale fish farm, where much is very vague. That's where I think there's a big uncertainty about the cost factor in everything. If this is so measured at this cost, let's call it a financial roof, which has been installed, 41.5% of the GDP, which is a 0.5% range, I think that however this is thought, there will be some ways to increase money to this category, environment and climate. This can be done by tax recovery, tax recovery, tax increase, and carbon tax rates have been reported to increase 100%, but there are many more ways because of the non taxable resource use. There are big incomes in certain sectors and social groups. [[The president calls.]] The money can be picked up and it has to. There is no escape.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u207	A respectable president. We must agree that we do not agree that this program can support projects. [[Yeah.]] However, there is another, and I quite agree, I think, well. A senator there: We still have unmanned routes for e.g. resource use. For example, in terms of our tourism, we use our nature and our country to sell our trips. This may not be an easy goal, but we look at the value of tax increases or balances in tourism. There are areas in which I may need special attention, protection areas, and tourism. We need to start looking out for how we control the flow there. This can be done in a way that can be paid in some way. I still think the focus must always be that we are protecting nature, not that the currency is some particular object in these areas. On the other hand, we're going to make ourselves available, e.g. In large national parks, Lake Bay National Park, people are going to be using more parking lots and parking costs to build infrastructure. And the same in other areas. This will lead to problems that could be used directly into the infrastructure. There's still room for e.g. Monitoring of Iceland's nature, which I give high priority on; monitoring, pollution prevention and loyalty, that it is a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u208	Madam President. On February 23, 1990, Júlíus Sólnes began to serve as environmental minister, the first member of the country to perform such an office. In fact, the establishment of a special Ministry for this sect was rather controversial, but since then much water has flowed to the sea, and it can be said that people's eyes have been opened to the importance of environmental protection. I'd like to read here a small part of the government's declaration of environmental and resource resources, with permission of presidents: In accordance with the Paris Convention, a climate operation programme will be implemented. The plan includes green incentives, forestry, land healing, and transport energy exchange. The green economy needs to be expanded. Those words sound as fine as they are, but they promise little of how the work will be carried out. I wondered, " Is the current financial program ambitious enough to bring about a good future for the environment or are we going to mess with it with a measure of damage to our offspring? ' Let's take a look at some numbers, as it has been done here before. The 2017 budget accounts for a total of 15,597 million. K. This amount will rise by nearly a billion to 2018. That's good. Then, in the year 2022, the figure of only 299 million is higher than the number of 2018. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister, because I know that it agrees with me that the environment is one of the most important issues of our time, whether the importance is reflected in the numbers that appear to us in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u209	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, like the others mentioned earlier, chooses to hold to the number and the number mentioned in 2018, but in his final position, he concludes that this is really about 250 million. K. increase but forgets the billions more that we put in now and will continue. Isn't it? Is it not reasonable to keep him with you? That's the raise. And then the final increase, a billion and 250 million to or from. I just think it's important that we talk about it the way it is. Hv. A senator introduced the operation plan. I thought he asked me what the job was. This is very important work. It is to say that since I took office on January 10, this has been the first subject to the program, at the top of my book, always, every day. We are suggesting that this will be done not only in the Ministry of Environment but in the contrary to all the departments, or the major points of which these topic areas exist, the Ministry of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Directors, and so forth. We're setting up a group of tasks, subgroups, professional groups, under the topic areas, or where improvement is needed and action can be taken. We focus, and in fact, the next week's job is to call on the government opposition to see if she wants to get to that job, into these professional groups. [[The president calls.]] I hope it will have a sound foundation, because climates are against all politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u210	Madam President. Yeah, you're right. Of course it's supposed to be against the Ministry. On the other hand, I feel that in some way my priorities are always that it could be left behind. It is always about balance, stability, and other factors, never talking about the future, and rarely is it spoken of for five years. It's learned me in those months, here, in the role of a senator. I'm not sure that future respiratory patients will be very grateful to us for having paid off debts quite quickly now in 2017, 2020,2019, and from now on, when we neglected the climate. I'd like to mention a point in the energy exchange Action Programme, which is the natural part of this entire package. It aims to increase the 40% share of renewable transport energy by 2030. We're talking about 40%, just, I say, in spite of the same strategy that claims to be few or no countries have as good an opportunity for transport to be electronic. I completely agree with that. Few or no countries have as good an opportunity to electricalize transportation. I don't think this is an ambitious goal. As far as I know, the public citizens are still shopping for traditional vehicles today. That's very bad. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why do governments not precede by example, by providing greater economic motivation? [[The president calls.]] And drive the Minister of Environment and Resources through on an environmentally-friendly minister car?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u211	A respectable president. Here's what we're talking about. A senator on priorities. He doesn't think he hears it, probably in this room or I don't know where, that priorities are in the environment and climate despite the fact that I tried to describe it very clearly here just before and not just before, definitely every time I come up to this chair, that climate matters are number one in my priorities. At least that makes it clear now. You know, about your debts. I've been hearing this a little bit from Pirates that it's not important to pay off so much debt. Then I'd like to say I hope we succeed in not letting our children carry our own debt. It is important for the future and for the present, too, not to pay all this interest, that we pay off debts. In fact, I thought it was a monogamy between political parties, but there I have found one who does not stress it. The questions about how my ministry's decided to buy something I'm driving on, it's some sort of hybrid, no, what's it called, an electric car that's also got, a minivan, yeah. [[Take it up to the front: Twelfth van.]] Of course, public members are to follow the lead. It's being examined specifically in the Ministry of Economics how we change or adapt, we can say, the kind of impulse that is not well designed today. In fact, they've had an overall review of them for some time, how we encourage greener purchases on vehicles rather than on the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u212	V.E.G. President. I think we're all aware that the environment is one of our most important issues today. It is also quite clear that we, the generation living today, are probably putting aside most of the contaminating substances and the most important things about nature. It is vital that we resist it. The Department of Environment, which was small and did not have a large task at the time, grows bigger and more important in our society. We're using nature to deliver all the tourists coming here. They're going all over the country. I'm very happy that inside the program set out here, there are plans to watch nature, to take a steady look at what's going on, to monitor how this wind goes forward, and whether we're going too hard on nature. I think it's very necessary. I think it's also very necessary to have landkeepers at these tourist attractions. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if we'll be doing enough onland guard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u213	A respectable president. Thank you for this question. I want to agree with what. Senator on the research and monitoring of Iceland's nature. There is extensive research into Icelandic nature in the responsibilities of the Environment Ministry, which is a very important factor in the activities of the entire Ministry. It's, for example. Iceland's weather agency, the Institute of Nature, the National Energy Research, and other smaller institutions, are equally important, which sometimes play a very special role, such as Rady, on Lake Mey. It's a very important institution. You know, about the land guards. They are truly part of the monitoring system and of the nature protection. Landkeepers are just such a wonderful and inexpensive tool to watch the Icelandic natural world, to fix, if we can say so, and to perform some form of service to tourists and guide them. They also have a place of security. In fact, it's time to add to the defense now for the summer. That's what the government is all about. We're gonna make it handsome this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u214	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. But we who now live in this country need to live. We need a job. We are in a position now that it really lacks the transport capacity of electricity across the country, e.g. in the West, as well as in the Northeast. They have plans for that. But I was wondering, as I know that some people have the intention of building some of the inducers that are then less than those ten megawatts, which are the target, whether there's any chance that we can get along with the production of electricity by force and whether we can with these smaller activations, protect nature and culture more fully. Whether they are better on the landscape or whether the size of activation is important. However, it is quite clear that there is an interest in stakeging into smaller activations. Many believe that nature is being promoted to a higher degree, less disturbed by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u215	A respectable president. That's an interesting point. I find it very important to separate ideas of activation, which are about 10 megawatts or over, as well as the small ones, often called peasants. Of course, those around and above 10 megawatts may have a lot of noise and need to be fed because of the so - called environmental assessment. The minor inducers are a completely different arm, where the flow is not impaired. For example, if a pipe is brought to a town stream and the flow is new to energy or there are old groundholes or ways to put the turban on that which will only tip into the air, I feel that it should be viewed very seriously. There is a wide range of lines to run, and it is so costly. This is often a talk about calling and connecting into all the feathers and onto all the ends of the earth. It's costing money. That is understandable. Of course, everyone wants to have a good access to electricity in this country that we have an abundance of electricity. However, if there are several methods such as microindustries that are skilled in areas where there are difficult or very costly downing lines, and the electricity is being used in the region, we should examine them very seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u216	Mr. President. Now we're in this discussion discussing a financial program, a proposal for Congress, a lot of documenting. Thus, the environment, in contrast to many other departments, is the Ministry and all its institutions at the same site. The minister has come up here and considered his policy and focus. The text in this piece is excellent, quite nice, fine goals. But because this is now a financial program, I hope that I was the only one to receive this copy where not one number is inside, i.e. the cost, so that we can talk about financial planning and what this billion is supposed to do. Here's one tablet after another. Point clear. All kinds of things they say should be put in during this period, and even responsible agents mentioned. But the board where expenses are said to appear does not contain anything, no dollars. How are we going to discuss a financial agenda that increases by a billion 2017•2018, though only the years that follow, if we don't have numbers? Should this not be a political debate? And should she not be centered on something else altogether? I'd like to ask the Minister, in this first question and the first answer to the highest. Minister, to tell us what numbers are in these programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u217	A respectable president. I can understand why. A senator and former environmental secretary would like to know better and more accurately what institutions, the topic fields, the crowns, and the money to go. But I must ask him to stay for a while. Here we are discussing the box. We've run out of it, so we've got it. The Ministry is now opening up to exchange funds for projects and institutions. I shall be glad to discuss it with you. A senator when he's ready for a broken-down. But it's not now. It's clear that this has been increased. It is clear what I put emphasis on and on in my Ministry. It's the climate, the infrastructure. With a change in the travel fund, hopefully funding will go directly to the Environment and Resource Ministry on the infrastructure of national parks controlled by the EEA. This won't go any strange ways in the right places. We've already transferred to a range of one 400 million. But that will not be enough. I'll put more out there, so that's what we're gonna call it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u218	A respectable president. It's a joy, and I agree with it with the highest. A minister in the field of interest is that the funding is being added to the infrastructure where work has been put on bill within the last term and the analysis of what needs to be done. I know it takes more money, especially for the first three or four years. I'm worried that when it comes to the Minister's sharing of this money, he'll also have to assume that there are 2% members of the Ministry. This Ministry's claim is of the order of 320 to350 million a year. They will not be used twice when necessary. You can't just put them on new projects. They must then be removed from this additional frame before they are assigned to a new assignment. It's gonna be hard. I didn't see anything in this water business, about the rest of my community, and therefore I understand that, so this government isn't going to deal with it. This, of course, is strange. We are facing severe pressures, including those of Jehovah's Witnesses. from the county government of Lake Myc and other rural communities, who feel that they are sitting at the same table naturally. But I did it at the highest. Minister, and of course thank you for the willingness to share it with the council, but this debate here today is meaningless, Mr. President. We'll discuss a financial programme here, and all we can see is the five-year decisionlines of the topic field. And then the minister here talks about emphasis. Has the Senate been taken care of? Has it now been the highest. A minister who can only decide how this billion will be divided without our ability to, twice in two minutes, which each council has for interview, discussed the financial issues? This isn't a political plan. It's a financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u219	A respectable president. Of course, such issues as under-laws are something that this government inherited from its former government. A member of a council where rural communities, like Lakes and Skulls, have to deal with it, because it's a law under their responsibility to handle irrigation matters. However, there are special circumstances, special protection values, and Lake Mey and Laxau of Peaceable Areas. It contains information on how to meet that small community. What really matters is that there are other sources of pollution. Those who pollute and try to compromise with the snout of regulations, or what it was called, they pay. My community's garbage business is not about hotels' reporting, so they say. The government will not pay for it. It's supposed to be between here and there. The financial paraphernalia is the most important factor in the loss of one's wallet, the loss of an article on which money would go. Hv. A senator, of course, knows that this will happen in a financial discussion. I've invited us to do it before, e.g. in a special discussion. In case of a moment. A senator wants to discuss in particular how I in my department think, that I'll exchange money and put it on the table on the budget, we can do it at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u220	A respectable president. We will discuss environmental and financial issues related to them. These are matters of importance to the inhabitants of this country, both in direct quality of life but also in the form of the image of our country. I have often felt that this image is a little better than we deserve in many respects. In climate, we have decided that green renewable energy will become a larger part of the energy we use. In many ways it has been possible in recent decades, but in some respects, we have built an aluminum plant, had the activations, and our energy use has become more green and renewable. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in which it has a vision of energy exchange in relation to climate and also where the funds that should be carried out are found in this programme, on any cost, and on whether it feels that they will be sufficient for the future ambitious task.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u221	A respectable president. I thank you for this question of energy change and how it can help us reach our climate goals. To answer, energy exchange is in many areas our most obvious solution when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These are the main opportunities for transportation, the electrical vehicle, the more efficient cars, the metropolitan cars, and just all the vehicles involved in renewable energy sources. It's public transportation. It comes, for example. the city line strong into the capital area where renewable energy is expected to be used. The marine road: Greater fuel savings can be used by better ships, improved equipment, climate - related energy sources, mixing biofuels to form, and increasing land electricity use when ships are docked. Then there's the agriculture. The use of agricultural application, improved storage, and treatment of manure, which induces metals, may be added. Hv. A senator asks where the money should come from and what this option is. These measures need not be expensive for taxpayers. For transport, e.g. The government is not about to set up a loading station, the market to care for. However, we need to figure out how to get the market to charge for the current source of electricity. But I'm gonna get a better chance on this next counter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u222	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for her answer. I'm glad to hear it's her assessment that this doesn't have to cost the taxpayers a lot. I think there are also many proper approaches. What I've been worried about at times about technology that's making space is that we have an enormously expensive investment that will be out - of - date within a few years. Then we're stuck with some kind of diffuser network, whether it's ISDN or anything, that we've worked very hard to invest in, but we're so out of the way of another and better technology soon after. This approach makes me happy in many ways. But speaking of technology, I think I also have to think only about what if. It is true that while the development of electrical vehicles has in many ways jumped in recent years, the technology in question may not have spread so fast that it alone is going to work for us. Then I wondered if the Minister has any other ideas, whether our energy exchange program will be able to rest on the external factors that those who develop electrical vehicles will succeed in making such cars available for use within a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u223	A respectable president. Sounds like something to me. A senator is on the same line as this. Technology is on its way. When deciding what to invest in taxpayers, we need to be careful. We politicians should be the last to bet on technology or bet everything on it. It is the role of others that can do so much better. Still, we must support the entrance so that they can grow and thrive in this regard. Gas stations can sell gasoline, how do private people, or those who want to sell electricity to sell it? It's not for anyone to push himself into it. We're supposed to take care of the rule and to keep things in place so that these plans can work out. There is no single total solution to climate. We have to do things at the same time. It is also important that we watch growing agricultural, forestry, the recovery of advanced wetlands. We need to take care of the entire ecosystem approach in this context, that there is a whole structure of things. There is much to consider, and there is no one solution that can provide. We have to do things and do them at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u224	A respectable president. We here discuss a long term or longer financial plan than we're used to; it's a new arrangement, and I've previously declared that I'm celebrating it. Some of the senators who arrived in the past were concerned that they needed crowns and money, but it's a new strategy that I'm interested in, and I'm glad we're heading toward it. The arrangement creates a clear link between professional goals and financial resources to individual causes, but it does not hang a few crowns on this and the rest out of a random will to do well. I find this very interesting. On the other hand, I'd like to come to the climate and the plan of action in them. The primary purpose of this objective is to take steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the direction and aim of the Paris Convention. The objective is directly related to the objectives of the topic field and to the protection of nature and sustainability in the use of natural resources. The objective is an example of a subject requiring wide consultation and cooperation with other advisers. That's what I'm interested in knowing from what I know. Minister. It is clear that action on climates is important and in many parts of the world, involving societies, members of society, etc. The government contributes a lot of money to these matters, and we know that they cannot deal with this important matter alone. How does a minister support the interaction between government and professional life in increasing efficiency in the needed measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u225	A respectable president. Thank you for this question. Regarding the Paris Convention's objective, governments are obliged to ensure that Iceland can sustain them. It is also a personal ambition for me and the government that it will be. It can mean burdensome demands and increased expenses, such as through green taxes and carbon taxes, as I came in earlier, which increase by 100%. In general, though, I feel that it is desirable to reach my goals with other means too. Prosperity ideas are well subject to the Action Programme, where our goals and ways of reaching them will be listed, timed, and measurable. I've already been getting this material. I've not only encouraged the economy but also the rural communities, the various members of the community, the various sectors in question, the fishing route and the agriculture, to come with us. I have had many meetings, sent home people with homework, so to speak, and said: "We don't want to do this so that these will be done with governments' commandments and bans that may not completely know what is going on in the field. Why don't you come along and wake us up and we'll see how we can work this thing out together? I simply believe that if we believe the only right way is to cross the line without asking a king or a priest, we will immediately land on the wall. It won't work. This must be done in cooperation with the job life and in cooperation with the other members I mentioned earlier and in cooperation with the council. Because, and that's why I've come to know that people are willing and willing to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u226	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson asked the highest. Minister how he drives, and I want to, by the way, say how proud I am because I've been on a record car for almost ten years. I was very excited about this innovation and potential infrastructure in terms of the use of vehicles. I eagerly await the energy exchange programme, which is very thoughtful to me, waiting for a more refreshing structure on the infrastructure for multienergy stations and other activities, as discussed earlier. A minister made it clear the importance of working these matters in cooperation with the job. A bright future has been a way of strengthening innovation in the country, which can play an important role in dealing with environmental issues. How does the Minister envision an added support for climate - related technology and evolution in the country with these innovations in mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u227	A respectable president. Thank you for that question, it's a big one. We've thought that this could happen through a climate fund called. The 2012 climate laws set up a climate fund to support climate projects. He hasn't been set up yet. I think it's necessary to do it as soon as possible. The arrangement of the fund can be considered. It could be part of another fund that the state has that strengthens research and innovation or by itself, which could save control and cost and ensure professional oversight. I can see the role of a climate fund in such a way that it should be a novelty to solve climate goals, if you can say so. We're still working on how we put this up. By approval of the Council, this fund is to be established. I can see it working like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u228	A respectable president. It's good to have a word with the Environment and Resource Minister on the need for a subject. Environmental issues have become aggressive in everyday speech. That's good. The earth is in danger. We may be the last generation to make a difference. I'd like to discuss its own little why, perhaps in some way incoherently, but it's best to get started. In my district on the West, we're building on a young, controversial industry, fish farm. They want to be careful. It would be good to hear only a minister's thoughts on the scope of fish farming, timeliness, regional division, and the harmony into national preparations, what possibility we have there. And also ask a minister if she agrees with a sea chief in the emphasis she has presented. The fishing industry has been widely discussed in these last days, and that has been an excellent work. Is Environment Minister agreed, e.g. Do fishermen believe that their opinion was that we had to work on a comprehensive assessment, a structure, in a fish farm? We've seen a patrolr in a fish farm, and as in a major industry, he's also playing a little loose. Its frame appears to be unsolved. At least two recent examples prove this. Will Ministers continue this? Can we see, instead, in a financial program, that the magazine will be replaced and organized and more demands for professional living? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u229	A respectable president. It is good to discuss the fish fire here, and we have also had the opportunity to do so in the Senate hall before. I've still said, I have this work structure that is built up in harmony and with a environmental point to guide and agree with its inhabitants and environment and ecosystems. I worry about the fish fire quite a bit, just a lot. She's passing the law. We are constantly responding, as it were. So I'm just saying very clearly, I'd have liked it better if it were a comprehensive assessment of fundamental factors. Agricultural and agricultural policies are now being worked out by the Department of Environment, including the Department of Environment and Agriculture. ... whereit'sput out. Of course, I'm worried that this is going to be too late, but of course it's just spit in my hands. I feel similarly about the bill I've recommended, no, I haven't recommended it, it's coming into the council next week, about the marine and coastal organization, that there's a need to be a basis for organization in these areas before it's started. With regard to the whole analysis or frame plan, I don't think it's a bad idea. However, there is a fundamental limit of the distance, i.e. the loss of weight and strength established by Merro.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u230	A respectable president. It is this weakness that the setting is liberating. Even those who are ambitious build up this article complain about it themselves. I think everyone is willing to dress up a little bit more readily in this regard. I'd like to share a little something with a cross. There was an interesting report this morning about sheep farmers. They have declared that they will give ten years to equal the article. This should be true of the entire farm prayer, also of the cow farmers. This needs to be done through agriculture, forestry, wetlands recovery, fuel exchange, and other measures. These are high, good, and positive goals. I ask: Is the government expected to do this? What's the Minister's assessment of this in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u231	A respectable president. I agree that this is a really ambitious plan and a vision made by the sheep farmers, I embrace it. I've always said that farmers who now live in the country and depend on everything that's best known that it doesn't mean anything to have a loose plate or hope for the best. It's got to be taken care of. There, indeed, the sheep farmers have done so. In fact, regarding the welfare of the State of the United States, we have discussed with the Farmers that to some extent we take this into the government's plan of action. Of course, we would like to work with farmers, e.g. in filling in the ditches that can be filled to recover in wetlands. I can see that very much, and just as farmers were paid to cut their land upside down and dig ditches and dig ditches, we should be able to meet the need to fill them back up to some extent. This has not been implemented, but, of course, farmers already get paid from the state for their production. It's easier, not just for the government, but for the entire public, to keep doing so, and to do so well if the funds go into such important matters and are being supported by such a fine vision. There's something in the eye.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u232	A respectable president. The government budget aims to protect some 4,113 billion dollars. to the 34 topic areas for the next five years. Of the 34 issues, three are in part or overall responsible for the transportation and rural administration. There is a topic area 8, rural society and community, topic area 11, transport and communications, which are largely at the Ministry, and topic areas 6, economic reporting, core and information, as well as the responsibility of Ministers of Justice, financial and economic ministers and environmental and resource ministers. The next few years aims to protect up to 314 billion dollars. to the three topic areas, or less than 8% of the budget. Increasing from 2017 budgets and budgeting 2018 is nearly 3%. Is it worth remembering that by 2017 or by more than 4.5 billion donations for transportation increased significantly? Since then, the government has decided to add to the lawsuit of about 1.2 billion. This year. During the period of financial planning, the three topic areas will increase considerably, with an increase between budget 2017 and budget 2022, nearly 14%. Transport and communications use some 186 billion over a period of financial planning or an average of over 37 billion dollars. every year. Despite the fact that more than 33 billion dollars are involved. transport use this year is often called for reform, as transport is a broad range of areas. Investment is intended to sustain the flow of road service, including snowstorms and sharks, maintenance roads, new projects, sponsoring public transport on land, air and uterus, operating and maintenance of national airports, marine defences, and rejections to name the main points. Strategic transport projects include animal tunnels and a new Western island vector. Despite less than 10 billion dollars. Funding of budget 2017 is a need for additional donations. New means of financing, such as co-financing, have to be considered. In the near future, both regulations and traffic edifices must be adapted to the most practical solutions. A reason to examine changes in transport income, including transport where electrical vehicles and wastehouses are growing rapidly. In 2018, there will be a U.S.H. tunnel to the State. At the same time, double attention is needed because of increasing traffic and safety standards. Other major projects that are to be paid up themselves, but the state is in direct or indirect responsibility. Then private workers work to prepare a porting in Finnafjord, including financing the project. Among other policy measures, I prefer to mention security. Security is laid on all transport systems. Markvist is working to reduce the number of fatal accidents and serious accidents on the road. The aim is to reduce the number of registered plane accidents and severe flight events as well as reports at sea. In addition, over the next few years, increasing the share of public transport, reducing the share of greenhouse gas emissions from transport, and increasing the proportion of new vehicles using renewable fuels. Iceland's campaign project lightrelated to the main subject of communication in the United States until 2020. Major initiatives have been caught in the telecommunications process in Iceland, but last year the telecommunication Fund strengthened the development of 14 units on 1,000 fiber optics. This year the fund will strengthen the development of 24 rural communities by 1,400 fibre optics. There are some 500 million people in the financial program 2018/22022. K. every year for the project. In this way, the more practical structure of fiber optics will continue to be worked on in areas with a country-defined market failure. The project for the interest of citizens, tourists, employment, telecommunications and communications companies in relevant areas and is a common government and rural, population, telecommunications and communications companies and contractors guided by cooperation and economic efficiency. The goal is to make a great deal of success in this regard. For example, if plans follow, in 2020, 99.9% of legal agencies in Iceland will have access to 100 MB networks. Government contracts present political emphasis for the next few years in rural and regional politics. The European Environment Agency will continue to work through a regional strategy to match the country's habitat conditions, including the United States of America. for electrical energy and communications. It must be done to strengthen the democracies of the inhabitants in decision-making through the national parish program. A regular assessment of national bioavailability will then be performed in cooperation with rural areas. At the following time, a synopsis proposal for a new building plan for 2018-2024 will be submitted, and there will be measures to meet the relevant objectives of the programme. In 2017, the increase in urban capitals was less than 25%, and they will be put into the existing regional and national parish programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u233	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister in charge of the seminary. There is no question that the transport has been high in the last few years. A lot of people expected it to be improved and were disappointed that it was not. Despite the expansion of the highest. Even so, at the end of the program, the number of roadmakers has only 51.7 billion more than at the time of its beginning. What a disappointment that must be for the highest! Minister. Or what? At the very least, it was disappointing. The chairman of the legal committee who said here yesterday, with the permission of a president: ▪ Yes, I'll bet you I'm so bummed that we don't even have more money for transportation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has a problem with the amount set up in this suit. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to his own word, and as soon as he has spoken. The chairman of the budget board who spoke yesterday about it, by permission of the president: ▪... how we can use our property collection to advance more rapidly and how we use the property of the State and what possessions we can put away in order to advance more rapidly, such as. On the road.How's it going? Is the government planning to put aside some possessions, as they say here, i.e. sell them, so that they can move on in the road? I would also like to ask, in the end, my previous answer: What is the situation of transport contributions as a proportion of GDP at this time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u234	A respectable president. Whether it's disappointing for me as a minister of transportation that more money is not being given, there may be additional factors in this matter. The important thing is that it is the General Assembly that determines how much goes to each seminar class. The General Assembly, in payment of budgets for this year, decided to prioritize health and welfare matters. We know that there has been a great deal of pressure in many cultures. Certainly, this amount will do only amount to get to the level of effort that we consider necessary in the transport system. That is why we have started a job looking for other possible ways to do this. Like others, we need to be realistic in what we do and how the budget is set aside for distribution each year. It has not been that I know of any decision made in government or elsewhere to hand over government property to make earmarks of this particular transport. Interesting ideas in this area have been emblazoned. I think there's a good way to see them. This may be part of the struggle we need to take. We will need to seek unconventional ways for success and take the necessary steps. This year's transport contributions, as a proportion of GDP, are more than 1%, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u235	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I know what the contributions are this year as a proportion of GDP. I was wondering who they would be at the scheduled time and then at the end of it. We have a historical minimum of contributions to road transport as a proportion of GDP. V.E.G. A minister speaks of looking at things realistically and playing what we have between us. When I'm at the highest. A government is not prepared to make needed money for its multi-developed infrastructure, but natural processes need to be sought as creative as the highest. Minister's talking about. The financial programme says about transport, with permission of the president: •Environment of environmental and security transport, particularly greenhouse gas emissions on a global level, as well as continuous work on shortening, safer construction, improving efficiency through improved quality of living and improving the quality of living. They are endeavoring to achieve energy exchange targets so that renewable, domestic energy is most useful and supported by public transport, air and uterus, as well as increasing the variety of transport practices within urban areas. with the special part of the program. - I'm glad if it's not just a maligned highway to heaven, it's so beautiful. Tells you the highest. Minister that all the projects promised here can be carried out with the funds found in the seminary in a financial program? I talked here about 7 billion. That's where I'm taking the total frame around the court language. Minister. Its content is communication, and much more is involved. When it comes to transportation alone, we are talking about the 5 billion - billion - dollar [5 billion] frame at the end of the period than at its beginning. One direct question at the end: Will there be a concordance with the animal tunnel taking the road over Daringrimur?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u236	A respectable president. I don't know if we can get to the sky right away. As a matter of fact, I began to wonder, " What are the possible costs? ' That's interesting. It claims that the government does not want to earn any more money to take over the infrastructure. Of course, that is not true. Among other things, the government has provided tax reforms in order to obtain the increased income that has been mentioned. The journey we are taking at the Department of Transport today, with the ideas we are working on, turns around to earn more money. It turns to let the great stream of tourists take part in this building with us as much as possible. I think that might be a very attractive option. It is not by chance that this is the way many nations are going, but a measure of solidarity is needed if this is to be achieved. This would no doubt lead to an enormous step in this regard. I think we need to realize that we're coming out of thin years. It's a lot of things to look at. This year's additions are quite billions. I guess they're close to 30 to 40 billion, an additional part of this unique period of time into this group of subjects. That's a lot of money. But as I have said before, it is better to do if it is enough. The road over Daringham, regardless of how eventually it will be exported, is in my mind a part of a beast's tunnel. There's no point in doing them if we don't complete that assignment. It will be on the list of priorities within the boundaries of playing cards. [[The president calls.]] I just hadn't looked up the proportion of the gross domestic product at the end of the season compared to the available plans, but it should be easy to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u237	A respectable president. To keep it going, the Council has not decided anything, we will vote for the plan and the budget. There are three things I'm interested in. It is now said of rural politics and settlement that the greatest challenge is the development of sustainable settlements. Then I'd like to know: " What if the project doesn't succeed? What is the threshold of how much money we put into one building or another before we can say that this settlement will not be sustainable? Secondly, it was the highest. The minister is to strengthen the democratic approach through the parish program. But all the measurable goals and explanations for what to do and what to do are missing. Third, transport. I'm very interested in knowing what the state of Vella-hideway is now and in the years leading up to this financial program. At present, the news comes from an unfortunate situation. I'd be interested to hear what a minister has to say about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u238	In terms of the community, it is that we have a very close partnership with the European Union and are working together with them that the possibility of paying more than that rural communities can unite. It is acknowledged that the rules set out by rural society, which divides largely and fundamentally, have even worked as a threshold in those areas. We look for ways to change the arrangement, to generate incentives through the equation fund, so that rural communities can unite, and thus strengthen their positions. A growing group member's work is great, and their responsibilities are great. Clearly, small rural communities find it difficult to fulfill their responsibilities, especially in the long run. I think this is an essential step. We feel that there is a positive tone in many parts of the earth that is generally welcomed. We're trying to work this thing out. Regarding the measurable goals, I think that in general they measure up to the strong communication we have with rural society and thus feel exactly what the currents are. I've had a lot of time since I came to the Ministry to meet with rural communities around the country and review their cases. I believe that although we don't have a measuring bar directly on this every day, some thermometer, we're well informed and in relation to that person's ability to evaluate the situation. With regard to the situation in Vault halls there are known problems that will delay their opening. [[The president calls.]] Those involved in their construction claim that nothing has changed in the business model, and they will become self-sustained with the planned collection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u239	A respectable president. A large part of being a surveillance agency is knowing what is being done and how we can know if they will succeed. Without measurable standards, we have no idea whether our goals will be reached or not. I'd be interested to know more about that. Is it more difficult for a community to determine whether or not it was possible to do so? First, the highest. A minister had little time to answer through a guard tunnel could give him another chance to do so in return. Investment committees have been called on to visit them from Válaðarur, where it was declared that they needed money. Now we are in a position to have a U.S. Council law on the amount of state responsibility from the Council to 3.7 billion. To add the amount to the construction of the tunnel, it would likely have to change the laws that are subject to Kingdom responsibility. Whether it is an intelligent arrangement, whether it is a State responsibilities fund or a government responsibility committee that gives that information should be considered. That was not clearly explained to us how the business model should be able to live up to it. We had very vague evidence of that. It would be very nice to know if the secretary of transportation has any further information on why this model should go on, because it is based on the old data of Hálfjörður that I can't see to be sustainable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u240	A respectable president. As I entered earlier, it is the Ministry's project, and it's being greatly increased, to support national parish programmes. This is exactly a big step in increasing the democratic involvement of the people in the areas in the way they set aside the money that goes on to these classes and that my people know very important. There was political differences at the time, but there is a wide range of solidarity and solidarity today, and the experience of a parish plan is good. We look at the expansion of the democracies of the rural communities, that there is more direction in their territories at any given time. We all know a controversial task and a decision was made at the time. Since then, there have been reports of failures on known roads. There's an out-of-the-road tunnel outside of the transport plan and there's an out-of-work operation at the Ministry. Regarding increased State responsibilities for expensive projects there, which were originally expected to be used by the secretary of finance. It's the Ministry that has the business to do. As to whether this is an intelligent arrangement, I think we can all agree, though, that it would hardly be wise to stop projects. I think we need to get together to finish them, although it's debated how intelligent it was to wear them at the time. That's what we're talking about. I have no detailed data in front of me, but I have in my discussion with those who are there informed that with increasing traffic, which, of course, is regularly measured and is part of their business plan, the basis for paying up the loans that are not fundamentally altered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u241	A respectable president. It's safe to say that the highest. The secretary of transportation has taken office in considerable contrast when the transport program was badly funded by the Allied Council. However, he faced the project with force and started research on the Grindavík and started a course on the Smokejanes Way, a misdirectional block at Krísavík, and now in the following days, two laps will be set up at the town of Smokeinstown. The minister has also talked about new ideas in the income industry because of possible projects around the capital area, which could study up to 100 billion dollars, calling for cooperation with the public and rural areas. I must say, as it is, I have felt an increased understanding of the public of these matters and of the situation that exists. I'd like to ask the minister, who I know has started work on these matters, what the situation is at that job, what ideas are being developed, and when they will be put in motion, and where that assignment is, and to explain it to us here in the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u242	A respectable president. Yes, we set the clear goal when I arrived at the Ministry, and we were reviewing the budget we have for the projects of this year that there would be most of the priorities for security purposes. Projects have been selected, including ritonavir. Of course, there are many viewpoints that need to be taken into account in many major and important projects throughout the country. An example of this is Urnavíkíkótttir. I mention the Krísavík Stadium, which was at one time at a conference in which these decisions were published, that they should perhaps have gone somewhere else, and that the minister had been trying to establish priorities in the interest of his own district. I'm totally dismissing it. By this roadside, if I recall correctly, we will have 17 to 18 thousand cars a day. There's a lot of heavy transport every day because of the activities there in the industrial field. This is clearly one of the more dangerous corners we have in the country. Work on them will be completed in November. Without definitive confirmation, it can be assumed that this will be accomplished by taking in and out of the capital area east of Selephos, south to Chefvigur airport, and up to the citynesi, around 100 billion plus. This includes the means by which the city and the West must go. Obviously, such projects are expensive. They'll take on a lot of money in the next few years. By relieveding them of the regular financial resources we have especially financed them, they will have the effect that we will have more to do with projects in other parts of the country and in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u243	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for these answers. Of course, there are many other challenges to transport. Of course, in view of our acceptance of a new Western island vector in this transport program adopted by the council, I've wondered if it's not necessary to make further research with the land base to secure the access of the ship there all year. I'm asking if the Minister would agree with me in that we need to examine it. The exact same thing is happening on the Cape of the Hornfjord. There is much land, and the fleet is growing, and the harbor's lifeline is also a problem. There's no such thing as the more money in the country's ports in general. I think it's very important that we look into it. I'd also like to mention, because I heard the minister say at a meeting that the Southern District is about as big as Denmark, where 6 million people live, in the Southern District of 50,000 people, and there's a lot, a long, difficult road system, whether we Icelanders may not forget what a good situation we live in relative to what we are in a large country. I'd like to ask you if this system is not a huge project, as it has shown here, and if the Minister is not determined that we will continue on this journey and he will give us some suggestions on it by the time of spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u244	A respectable president. Yes, there are many other tasks, e.g. ports and airports. Our financial resources have been used as well. There is a great need for construction in many parts of the country. We will need to increase their budget, as well as a small number of airports in the country where only funds have been made for the business of this year but not to the challenging maintenance that the need has been growing in recent years. You're right. A senator mentions land size and population. We often forget that we are a very small people in a large country. Danir is nearly 6 million, building a road system in a country that may be less than a third of Iceland's size, such as the Southern Sea. We are 340 thousand people building road systems and infrastructures in 103 thousand square miles [350,000 sq km] of land. We have previously successfully carried out such projects with great success. I think the most intimate of all is the distribution system of electricity, the main electrical transport system. It is the fact that the policy taken some 50 to 660 years ago, to provide additional support to the Icelandic community through energy-rich industry, to build up the inducers in the country, and the main transport systems of electricity made it possible for the home and companies to pay the lowest electrical prices of all the countries we compare with. It was big customers who bought us a lot and lived with us. We've been missing this big business friend in the road system. But he's here now. Now we have all the tourists. To help build up the road system in this country, we need to reach this great tourist stream. [[The president calls.]] We will never succeed in taking the real steps necessary to make things acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u245	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation to what he sees to do about transportation here on the southwest corner. We can see in numbers related to this publication an enormous increase in traffic in the capital area. At the same time, we are expected to visit 2.4 million tourists this year. Almost every tourist comes here to the southwest corner. This, in turn, increases metabolism in general as economic growth increases. We see a tremendous increase. In addition to that, you can find them in a national financial program that has to build up at the Land Hospital on Ring Road. There'll be a new hospital opening this year. It is also expected to start with a new treatment core in 2019. Today, with the mayor's press releases in the grass, there has been a growing population population population growth here and structure. I simply wondered how all the people should get around here if there is no major transport compensation here in the capital area. I simply ask the minister: What do you find in this financial program that has to do with improving traffic and slowing down the pressures that are already on traffic vessels here in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u246	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator, not just a country where transportation is difficult, but here in the capital area. A lot of big, serious jobs are waiting for us here. There is not a specific program in which we now discuss what is specifically involved in their projects. It is being implemented in a transport program. In 2012, rural areas in the capital area agreed that larger road projects would be postponed and prioritized in the interests of public transport. Thus, about a billion each year are being involved in promoting public transportation in the capital area. The result, based on the figures I have received, is nothing special and may not reach the goals that were set up in that contract. There is reason to revise him, especially with regard to the new ideas that have been observed in rural areas around a so - called city line that is supposed to be a new way of furthering public transportation. The ideas we're working on, so that I come back to it, however, have quite a turn on the capital area, because inside that assessment, there's an introduction on the road just through Hafnarfjordur Fjord. We're looking at the Sunway. It's a very important thing. The tangent doesn't have the traffic that goes through it every day, if I remember just between 70 and 80 years ago. Cars. There has been opposition to the city authorities, very much, to engage in the misjudgment of molds needed by the roadtype and by the Department of Transport. So I think it's important that we revise the agreement made at the time and in connection with this work in a city line of thought. [[The president calls.]] If we have added money, whatever way we can, it will be here in the capital area as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u247	A respectable president. Both me and the secretary of transportation represent the Southwestern District. We have indeed experienced that, as shown on page 19. 200, the increase in Keflavík road is 21% between years, turning towards traffic. At the same time, we see that the number of bus passengers has increased over the last few years by about 5% per year, that is, the growth of masziev. We also see that tourists are making increased progress on rental cars. This makes us very difficult. No matter when you get to the side square of N1 into Hafnarfjordur towards the airport, it's always a long wait to get in on the phone morning. It doesn't get much better when you get to the FH. And it always seems like everything's stuck when we get into the Garden town. If you are running along all these plans -- I didn't even mention everything that's going on but talked about the residence site, the Land Hospital, but there's also a lot of structure in the area there between the two colleges you want. So I cannot imagine anything else, just as the minister says, but that priorities are needed. Although the minister may point to a transport program, we have already tried to do so since the minister accepted that it is the most important thing, not the transport program itself, but the secretary's funds for the projects to be carried out. Of course, it is important that Reykjavíkurburg accept its responsibility in this regard but also our own community, i.e. to ensure that the organization can be done in good cooperation with the government and that we are trying to deal with the growing problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u248	A respectable president. It's true that this document is what we are discussing now that is important to us when it comes to creating a transport plan. I was just witnessing where the projects are defined and how they are set priorities on the part of the council. However, this depends on working with financial and financial programmes and on budgets for the next year depending on what the situation will be like. There is an enormous increase in traffic, especially on a rental car ride. Amazingly high percentages of tourists take rental cars and travel with them. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, this is a masquerading situation at the time of entering the southern capital area from Keflavík. Thus, it is urgent to double the road from the place that is also a major accident trap, where the double end of the Cheflavík road and through Hafnarfjördur, not only, but through it. This involves a misdirected intersection at the N1 station, then the road is taken in a box and buried over the entrance to Kaplacca and then appears there. It is inside the work that is going on to look into these particulars and inside the numbers I mentioned earlier, which are actually unconfirmed but are the rough image that has been drawing up in this work. That work will end before spring, and then we can talk about it more. They are already starting a team of colleagues involved in the council to study these matters. I remember that when it was decided to locate the hospital at the Ring Road, it was said that the gang leg was an unbreakable project, i.e. a road below the sofa at Fos Som on that side. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be examined and dusted by the possibility of making a deal with the city authorities on the location of such a road. I think it's necessary in the future, and it hasn't changed since 2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u249	A respectable president. There's a lot of fine stuff coming from Brussels, as we've been saying in Wesun. One of the fine freedoms that comes from which all of Europe has been glorified is freedom in the mails that we in Iceland have missed until now to change where there is a reason for joy. We're especially happy about that. Here in the telecommunication section, at Point 3, says, by permission of the President: ▪ Enrolling all-time mails secure and decommissioned private rights. The plan is that in 2018 all services will be ensured in the most practical manner and 2,222 will be guaranteed without any government strategies. I'd like to draw this up because I like this discussion to also call attention to things that may cost little or nothing but that can make our lives better by using the free market. I'd like to ask a few questions about the next steps in these matters, especially in view of the contribution of the state funds and the share of the state funds in it. It says about action on page 18. 204, operation No. 4: ▪ Personal rights at the postal market and public service insurance The cost of doing so in 2022 will be 0K. which is in line to ensure that a public service will be ensured without a state ethic but that there is no further information on how to handle it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he envisions the next steps in the matters of monopolising a postmarket, especially in regard to the financial resources of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u250	A respectable president. There's a lot of changes going on in the mail service, not just here in Iceland, but around the world. Mails everywhere have been greatly reduced, as we all know. It has been observed that there has been an enormous increase in the size of the shower. It's an interesting step that I think was taken in Denmark, where government agencies are forbidden to send mail only electronically. It should be a condition for this, especially when the country is being destroyed in a way that is planned. I think it's interesting. This means a lot of saving. But the needs also change. I was, for example. with a representative of the local community at a meeting yesterday, where they pointed out that there are now more valuable items, parts, and other parts of a post office coming home in town, and this is left behind. This too should be taken into account when we consider how this will be done in the future. It will most likely be published regulations in the summer or before the summer, as we will reduce some day's mail distribution to meet these contractions. Then you work on a bill that is being decommissioned privately in the mail service. I suppose such a bill will be seen at the council, if not next fall, then definitely for the next winter. The aim will be for us to complete this project, sort of in line with almost all European countries. It may be Switzerland that has not finished the patent in this case, but all other countries have. We have observed the trend and have been preparing for the full success of this development.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u251	A respectable president. I thank the minister, but perhaps he would want a slightly better explanation if he felt that this would cost a fortune to start with or if there would be no significant impact on the State right from the first day. Then I'd like to ask another question. There is transportation from the capital area, but from a slightly different perspective than that mentioned so far. When I look at the goals, standards, and transportation procedures, many of them are more focused on automobiles. That is a goal of No. 4 on environmentally sustainable transport, which distinguishes from aims to increase the share of public transport in the number of travel within SSH. But we look past one large and very green vehicle that is riding a bicycle. There are no special goals I see in their schedule. Yet, by permission of the president, I rejoiced to read the above text, which says: ▪ During 2016, some 13 million passengers traveled with the bus bus. in the capital area. In recent years, passengers have increased by about 5% per year. Governments contribute to the growth of public transport and construction of walking and cycle highways by negotiation with rural organizations in the capital area. I wanted to understand more about how this situation has been so far by building a bicycle path in the capital area and how the minister envisions evolution in these areas. Is there a plan for it to continue, to increase in some way, and to consider that some aspect of the construction of bicycle transport is being considered by the government? It's, for example. A particular problem is that when you land at a Leifs station, you will not be able to ride a bicycle properly to Reykjavík. They either have to ride on the road or after very bad roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u252	A respectable president. A little better about the services in the mail after you have undergone some private leave-up. I can see, without any decision being made, but it's in my mind with the bill being prepared that it's a service that would be offered. I think there are many practical solutions. Certainly, the very fact that we are in a large country is knocked at the door again. It'll always be more expensive for us. But I'm very excited to see if there is no market for this service at the end of the day, e.g. will be offered according to national parts due to change of environment and possible integration on a variety of factors if this depends on national parts. It is then a very special decision whether or not the company will be sold, whether the government will completely go out of business. But I can say as much as I think it must be. Yes, a building of cycle paths, footpaths, and such. It's the road structure, and the state has been involved in this development with the rural communities. If I remember correctly this year, there are about 250 million members of this category, where the cooperation of rural society and the Roadmaker is in this structure. This has been done a great deal of effort and fine in many respects, but it is also increasing. We certainly need to look to that program. There's been an increase in pressure that we're looking at this in many parts of the country with larger rural areas across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u253	A respectable president. I would like to continue with a discussion of transportation in the capital area. I'm wondering. At the same time as I'm a senator for the Southwestern district, I'm quite concerned about the expansion in the capital area. Farming is getting offers, which are often in these 50 days and up to 150% over the cost of tenders. This happens almost every week, whether it is malabonation or other projects. Few people offer, and according to the less women's economics, the public should not have much work to do in such areas. When it comes to the future vision of the topic field of transportation, it is said that it is a willingness to cooperate with rural areas in the capital area around the city line. Then I wondered about the standards mentioned above, the criteria number 4. I'd like to ask you what. Minister of the city line according to the measurable targets made up of section 4. The scale is basically a number of steps. 2016, these were 13 million points that reach 18 million points of 2022. This is a long-term plan. Now the rural communities are running this city line project full. A description of the regional structure has arrived in the advertisement. I'm interested in knowing if the city line is expected in these measurable targets of 2022, 18 million steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u254	A respectable president. There is reason to be concerned about the expansion in the capital area. It's a lot of work to go to the invitation at the Road Building in the next few days and weeks. This was greatly increased to the maintenance factor of the road generation, from 5.8 billion to 8.1 billion. These are smaller tasks that are being offered in many parts of the earth. It will be interesting to see this as we see how evolution is in other parts of the country compared to the way it is here. I know why. This morning, a senator showed me the numbers of projects that Kopavogs was offering and went on to the lowest offer of up to 50% of the cost. Of course, this is a concern and needs special attention. The Cyslavitian gaps may have been within the margin, but it was about 10% higher than expected. It is clear that the contractors industry, the plant industry, faced a massive blow to the collapse and has not recovered its weapons, and it will take action to build a powerful operation in that field again. The city line was not included in these plans or goals at that time, although we are uncertain as to what this is about, although there was certainly an agreement on public transportation. I've had discussions with the mayor. We have expressed an interest in this project by means of a rural organization in the capital area. I testified earlier that the 2012 Convention had not gone very well. I may not be quite right, I shall not say so, but I did have numbers from 2012-2015 that did not show much increase, if I correctly remember a 15% increase in a contract by then 1/3 but was able to double it in ten years by this donation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we need to rethink this cooperation on that basis, and we're going to use this money into the city line project as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u255	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. Minister, but I don't know if he agrees with me. At any rate, I agree to myself to go on such projects, where there is a lower level, while at the time, but to implement the latter part of the season if the spell decreases in the capital area and then the city line would be very suitable for them. I'd like to ask you about the bike path that was being discussed earlier. Most of the rural areas in the capital area are building and supporting dense development, so we need to offer eco-friendly transport, which is exactly what the urban line is and riding a very important factor, especially from climates and other factors. Some of the rural communities have expressed interest in classing and making special transportation paths and then other leisure trails. So there is really no rules in road traffic in Iceland, except when it comes to eco-friendly streets, a 15 - mile [15 km] - maximum speed in the streets and the same as hiking. On the other hand, we are measuring bicycle riders at speeds of up to 35 miles [58 km], with speeds of 30 miles [32 km] in the street, with bicycle racers at speeds of up to 58 miles [58 km] in footpaths. This can be a real danger, and we are concerned about it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he would be interested in going to some kind of job with the capital area in eco-friendly transport in particular cycling and building a cycle system for the whole capital area by transport riding and other forms of bicycle riding, which have lower speeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u256	A respectable president. I think this is one of the factors that we need to look into. The road is growing, but I'm not really going to lose it. I live in a community where there's no place like it. A senator, a town councilman, has been there for a long time since 1969. I lived down there in a valley for 23 years, then I moved up onto some of the property she organized for us in the highest hills. I could ride a little bit when I left the valley, but it's all gone further up there. What I'm saying is that all of this has to be left in hand; public transportation, eco-friendly transportation, and easy traffic. Speaking of eco-friendly traffic, it's crucial that traffic flows well. The number of dams in today's traffic today is enormously expensive and contaminated. I suppose we'll be taking the initiative in the Ministry to talk to the rural areas soon to see if there's any chance that we can introduce some kind of stress distribution, that we can start a conversation with large workplaces and schools and so on spreading the pressure. This is known in foreign cities. I think this could be a major part of making transport possible, and maybe it would be interesting to consider in the context of public transportation and environmental transport how we can also make the way of this vehicle that has become, as we know, very intolerable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u257	Madam President. How happy we are when there are reforms in the media and the thrill of hearing bigotry! Minister of the operation. No one doubts that a minister's good will is to carry out this assignment. He is both good and approachable. I'm asking a minister if he expects more money to be spent on transportation than he already has already introduced in this program, perhaps in the light of more financial resources and yesterday's news will make you optimistic. In fact, this is also indicated in the financial program that more money comes into transport. He may want to shed a little light on this. If we now needed more money on transportation, as he knows about man's actions, will the council discuss some of the projects that would take priority in his view? Of course, there is a worldwide cry for improvement in transport workers. This is true of East, Northern, Southwestern, South, and South, the largest road in the world. I also mention my good old district, Westland and Westwestern. There's trouble with the West. We know the lake in Huna Lake and the Forest Coast, and now we are bombarded with signatures on Hig Arane Road in Skavetir, which is bad at the flowering countryside, a section of five miles [5 km], so there are many projects. It would be peaceful to hear from a minister whether he is optimistic about our getting more money on the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u258	A respectable president. I'm going to try to guide my optimism in my work at the Ministry and approach the projects on that basis. When you look at them, it would be impossible to let your hands drop, but that is not available. Of course, whether more money comes to transportation is the decision of the council, and we all know the importance of these many issues. Here we see the frame set up in the years to come. It involves a huge increase compared to what was before, but not enough in my opinion so that all the vital activities in front of us can be carried out. I mentioned numbers about the routes that are on our mind, in and out of the capital area, but they're projects, like what they're doing. A senator mentioned, who will then talk about, is urgent and very costly. Forest road costs about 6 billion dollars. In the complete process. The same is true of Tarts, where there are another 6 billion. We talked about Du vilddi Shak before and about Animal Straits. I guess that's between 15, 18 billion in total, 15 billion plus at least. Then we can move north. Waternes Road was mentioned, then there was a nice resident there the other day who sent me one morning a video of when he was driving that road, and I know him pretty well. There I was in the country as a kid, but, of course, it's unannounced. There are just too many of our transport systems and therefore much effort. Will the council then come to this priority? Yes, of course. It is the council that provides a transport plan. Today, new transport plans are being carried out by four and 12 years of age. Then, at the latest, they should be submitted later this year or no later than the beginning of the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u259	President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. Most of the 2.4 million visitors visiting Iceland this year, estimated to be, arrive in flight. V.E.G. A minister briefly killed earlier that the airports in the country were neglected, and they did not think much of it. It's the highest. One minister is ready to open up a discussion about developing the national airports in order to cross international flights to some extent for tourists, to distribute tourists through the country, and in another place to care for fresh exports to fish exports? Then I'd like to mention - it's a very short time - that it has been made known that a team has been appointed to review various aspects of the road, including Road otter. Does a minister realize that the factors to consider might affect the development of transport income and expenditure over the period? We have experienced significant changes in information technology, automobile and environment solutions, whether he has in mind collecting e.g. Car costs are higher in such a way that citizens are using them. Second at the end, highest. Minister. Last year there were 635 million profits in Spallar, who runs a Halfland tunnel. They will be handed to us in common, the Kingdom, next year. Can we not be sure that they will remain completely free of charge? Is there a measure of consideration for the potential dowry in the financial program? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u260	A respectable president. In fact, we have three or four airports today, which, in a good way, can welcome both passenger and fly. I think the market will have something to do with this. They have been trying to contribute to the use of more direct international flights by the Akureyri Airport and the Lagis base airport. True, you have the hope that it will turn out. There are then major changes in employment, e.g. in Western Europe, which, in my opinion, may call for a person to have a need in the coming years, although it may not be quite soon to consider some possible changes in that subject. Yes, it will, of course, affect the development of income if further funding is taken up in the road system. That's for sure. It will be in my opinion that there will be a great deal of effort in the work being done there, which will then be financed to be reimbursed in some years, as we know so well from the Haggard tunnel. The financing of these urgent projects that are in this view is not taking money from a government fund that uses them for other projects. It has also developed in many parts of the country that there is a reason to consider this road taxation elsewhere. For example, some local representatives of the country have come to see me and have suggested that if they can speed up construction in their territories, people are ready to examine such routes. I think we should take these steps carefully and develop some way and start somewhere. Whether we will then stop collecting in the Haggard tunnel when they will be received next year, that has not been decided. [[The president calls.]] But to me, if there is no ongoing development in this connection, there is no justification there for debt beyond anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u261	Madam President. It is quite special to have this opportunity, and at the same time, it is a great privilege to share in a financial discussion of the agricultural and marine sectors. This arrangement is interesting and interesting, how the council builds up the discussion in an effort to bring out the most upbuilding, enlightened, and objective discussion, and because you also have some past experiences in the Polish language, I like to compare these practices with what was in the years before. I'm not necessarily going to criticize what was in the past, but I'd like to say that I feel that this is an improvement. I like to see the way the Ministers present and present their affairs, as well as members of the Parliament, no matter what group they are. I've only been watching how people do things today, and I feel that the discussion in general has been upbuilding and enlightened. We at the fishing and agricultural department are trying to approach these basic projects of our Icelanders in a somewhat similar way. These are resource branches. I'm stating that in the work of this topic field, in terms of the use of the living resources of marine and water and, on the other hand, the use of resource resources of the land for food production responsible for this Ministry, the topic domains of these two journals, on the one hand, the management of agriculture, marine soil, and fish farming and, more importantly, in the long term, research, development, and innovation for both branches. That's the perfect key for us to stay in the lead. I can also see, and after further researching the groundwaters, I know that there is also a great catch for us Icelanders as we further focus on sustainable, environment, health, and health of our Icelanders and our agricultural productions. I want to bring out the vision and the main objective. On the one hand, our vision for the future shows that Iceland will be responsible for providing wholesome food on the basis of speciality, environment purity, professionalism, and quality. This is being drawn up in the agricultural sector, but this is developing a modified change system approximately the same for the water supply as we are fully responsible for the sustainable use of marine and water resources and in the production of healthful products on the basis of speciality, environment purity, trade and quality. It was a bit of fun to experience what I experienced back then as a minister of education, then the Ministers of Education in Europe in Finland in whole flights, as one of the Finland minister said, even the trucks, began to study its policies, but it has arrived in the last few weeks, including those. from the United Kingdom, especially by Bfenit, to study Icelandic fishing policy, which is the basis for our scientific research, how we build up our sustainability, and how we respect it. The main interest stakeholders have exerted themselves, whether by seamen, by fish farms, by artisans, by striving to build up this sector that makes us outstanding. The primary objective of the marine climate is to increase the competitiveness of the environment. It is large, but it can grow even more in the field of a fishing field. I want to draw out the fish fire as well. This is what we do on the basis of economic, environmental, and social equilibrium. I think these three factors are important if we stick ourselves into competition. If we build it on the basis of economic, environmental, and social awareness and balance, I think we'll have some pretty good business. I'd like to draw out about the agriculture, where the main goals are similar, to increase the competitiveness of food production based on these same factors, economic, environmental, and social factors, there are huge parishes as I could before. This we do by furthering our fields of education and research. So I'm directed to all of us that we talk about knowledge land and try to promote his development. This means that we need to support our major research institutions. [[The president calls.]] I would have enjoyed talking even. ... witha variety of resources, but I'll come to that later, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u262	Madam President. I'm going to direct a few questions to the highest level. Secretary of the sea, starting with hunting fees. I'm asking if it's expected to increase over the five years of the strategy, whether or not a discount on my debt will continue. Is it possible to step the fishing costs according to their size? Is it expected that resource costs will be set up on the European Commission's access rights to marine farms on the river? If so, is it possible for rural society to become a sharer of that price? I also ask about the issues of Marine Research Institute, Fish Labs, Food Agency and Maize, all of these important institutions responsible for monitoring and monitoring, as well as for the basis for the sustainable use of sea resources. Will there be increased funds for these classes? According to the publication, it seems to me that there will be no more than 307 million out of 2017,2022. I'm asking if I'm reading it right. For example, a food - based agency has a surveillance role in growing marine farming and the well - being of animals and intensification of funds. We on a job committee had a group that is reevaluating laws or regulations around sea farms and hearing at a meeting this morning that is in dire need of financial support for this important role.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u263	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these questions, which also applied directly to my suggestions in his day, our financial proposals. After they were published, a report on MAST, a Food Organization, which clearly shows that governments, both present and past, must put their arms around this institution. It doesn't matter which category, whether left or right, you need to put your mind around the Food Institute and strengthen your surveillance. The report is important for us to build a strong food monitor for consumers, for manufacturers, and for immigrants. I want to agree with that with what. Senator that we need to be careful of this institution. My priorities for a proposal in terms of funding and financial planning were very clear. They were priorities in behalf of the Merro and the Food Organization, including the World Food Organization. based on potential increase in fish farms, related monitoring, but also increased food safety and monitoring. It was clear from my mind that the Cradle and Food Organization would take priority. I would also like to point out, though there are no large sums, that I would like to try to follow through on the dealings between the builders and the sailors of the difficult ten - week strike. Trust must be developed between parties. And what can governments do there? Among other things, they may be able to improve the northern prices of the Price Room. There are repeated mails to me from the labor movement's leadership in this regard. This is part of what I think we have to try to use space in. But there were many questions. I'll try to find them in later on in my answer. Yes, you need to be careful about MAST. I believe it is important to take moderate resource expenditures in that area, but I have completely opened the fact that there is part of the community involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u264	Madam President. It is very important that organizations such as Marine Research Institutes have fixed financial resources to do their job but do not have to apply for the building fund paid by the marine farmers today, which is a source of advice under the heel. I would also like to ask: Is it assumed, as a result, that this group of people in the sea environment will be returned, that these matters will be submitted by law? The need for this article to grow in harmony with the environment and other employment sectors is urgent. About energy exchange, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What funds are intended to develop in some way the fleet is about to use other energy sources? And what is expected of a large amount of money in meeting the UN climate targets? This may match in this regard. It's only about the agricultural business, but there's another senator left-green coming in better after that. Does a financial plan assume that a new livestock contract will be fully financed? And with regard to forestry: Will the government's contributions to deforestation be increased or cut down for the next five years? I ask in general if there will be any changes in the government's official support system for agriculture or other sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u265	Madam President. Just a question. The senator for the hunting fees, whether or not the discount remains. I don't see myself extending the temporary law that the discount will continue. In any case, the arrangement is now, so it doesn't just run to memory, it's clear. I think we'd have to do something other than renew or extend a discount which is actually just a reduction in fishing costs to a particular project. However, certain structures, e.g. In the ideal case of both. A senator, in the face of great difficulties, we realize that. However, there are others who face challenges in the light of the crown's success and status. For a bill on fish farming, I reiterate that it's extremely important that we stay here at the council are going to cooperate. This means that, in some cases, professional and environmental committees also need to meet together, including When the group returns that I hope will happen at the end of June or at some point in July, to evaluate how we are going to proceed. I can see that if the council and the committee agree that we should win a bill from what it says, we will. I think it's important, I stress it, to be careful, go slowly, but we're going to build up this industry for a long time. But we'll be careful. Otherwise, we simply wait for this conclusion. In terms of the domestic agreement, it is expected that it will continue. There's no need to be. We already said that. I'm not going to hide that I was critical of the hardware deal, but there are also a lot of good in the one we're supposed to take advantage of. We are to examine and listen carefully to what the review committee presents, people from different backgrounds. I hope we'll achieve a reasonable change in the stock market deal, but we're going to have a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u266	Madam President. I'd like to begin by describing my concerns about the budget, about 300 million. K. increasing in the period 2018/22022, fishing, and fish farms are each a major topic area. One is old - fashioned and solid in our society, a new and growing article of fish farming. My concern is that research done for decades in ocean research has now been linked with all too much research to be done on fish farms. The decline associated with target I, the increase in study and innovation over time, covers up to 525 billion. K. will be devoted to research on marine ecosystems and under the practical use of wild strains and environmental factors and then the development of fish farms. That's a lofty goal, Mr. President, but I'm afraid that with a bit of a nod in the box, about 105 million. K. This year, if any of these tests are neglected. In comparison, emissions of up to 265 billion may be obtained annually, 8.1% of gross domestic product. How could the advancement of the category within the framework be a simple increase of 5.4%? It is best to remember the recent appearance of fur, which was costing itself. We live in global warming, it is a fact. At the same time, we find ourselves in the area where cold waters form while the earth warms up all around us. We are at a critical point, but we are not going to make enough research. The acidification of the sea is such a serious matter that we need to take firm hold of. Given that this is the second largest industry in Iceland and as well as the most profitable year of government growth, I am amazed that we are not investing in knowledge. In fact, we're going to get away from it as quickly as possible. President. I believe these plans are as reasonable as not missing study in order to save your student loans. That's why I'm asking the highest. Sea dignitary: Count of the highest. Agricultural and agricultural minister has enough value to keep things from falling apart? Does the minister also believe that the current shipship of the Oceanographic Institute is sufficient when the new ship is 18 years old? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u267	Madam President. So I'll answer the last question right away. paritaprevir Gunnar the son of Ingi Guðmundsson, saying, No, I don't consider the order of the Christ to be good enough. I'm not hiding that I want to see a new ship for Bjarni Sæmundsson, who's been up 50 years. I feel old enough, let alone the blessing of the ship we have to rely on when it comes to research, outings, and so forth. That's perfectly clear. I would also like to point out that a transnational committee led by a Valur Gíslason, who was also serving a number of members of the Parliament, gave results here on autumn days of 2013. The need for a new ship was reviewed. The research ship Bjarni Sæmundsson was partially rebuilt in 2002, as I recall. That was enough for eight to ten years. They're gone now. It is clear in my opinion that the Oceanographic Institute needs a new ship. It's not part of the plan, they're gonna say and come up here gnarly. No, of course, I'm setting hopes that this might change. I have to say right now, because it's exactly what happened. A senator, our research facilities are not good in this important profession that we are outstanding in. We are looked upon, and we are not going to lose that position among other nations. We are not going to do that. This will not happen with this financial program. But we need to keep building on it. The amount of time I get in my department goes to a more and less sponsoring Merit Research Institute. There's not much, it's most important to nurture the inside of the Mergro, then to try to keep building under the MAST, which I've said we need to take special care of in view of the report that was presented the other day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u268	Madam President. Then we'll shift the story to the agriculture. As far as I'm concerned, reducing the number of farms and increasing the production of the remaining ones seems to be a priority. This gives me reason to think that there seems to be a two - page theme that seems to be heading in about the same direction in agriculture as in the first - century highland fishing industry. So I have to ask the minister: Is it time to reduce the number of farmers? By permission of the President: To date, the government's management of agricultural activities has been based mainly on financial and based measures in the interests of traditional habitats. The government's policy is to change the focus of the management of this article in order to increase the value and development of knowledge land. What does this mean? It's up to section 4, goals, standards and measures. To create a equilibrium between economic, environmental, and social factors, it is considered a target. A familiar theme, actually. The exact same theme is mentioned in the same target form of fishing for fish. Target I. ▪ Aggressive increase in production. The objective includes a set of criteria for annual increase in the production of this article on the basis of workforce. These goals cannot be followed without reducing the number of farms or increasing the number of units or increasing the production. I don't see how that's gonna be done any other way. It's a goal, but I can't say I'm a follower of the approach. I see a special place in the agriculture of the country. We can easily support ourselves with increased emphasis on organic farming. Also, we live under a particularly practical setting for vegetable breeding and see it as a growth wand, but because of the distortedity of transport costs, electrical energy, and so much energy itself, it is not as profitable as it might seem to be. It is strange to ignore the opportunities that involve the binding of carbon dioxide to vegetable culture and to look more closely at the use of energy into Britain by means of a cable. Why don't we tie this energy and greenhouse gases into tomatoes and aguars? With what direct action is the highest. Minister to achieve this promotion? [[The president calls.]] How do you make the most of it? Ministers of the projections on how to use geologic and electrical energy on a vast scale to export vegetables?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u269	Madam President. The last thing I like about it is brilliant. If we look at the development of the plant in gardening areas, we will see that it is very positive in the area where the import was opened. There's more competition in this area now. Vegetables were increased, but they have certainly done well in competition, having increased their share in the market and not just that, they have produced more varied production. Various wands have developed through the garden of Eden that has been a great advantage to us consumers here in Iceland. Organic culture, I approached the council hall the other day and answered a question from what happened. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. I'd like to use myself to contribute to organic farming policy. I think it would be best to start looking at sheep in that material and to plan on forming a working group in this regard. Other factors. During the day, new statistics from cow settlements appeared last week, rather than last week, showing that the present system contributes to a specific economy and compression in the article. The number of clients has decreased by less than 50 in recent years, reminding me, so the system is on its way. Good or bad. I think it's both. It is on the one hand that romance is trying to keep the country in most parts of the world. I think we should try to promote what is important and use the avenues we have to secure solidity, supply farmers, sheep or cows, as much as possible to choose the branches they think are suitable for the earth and for them. I have hoped that the review committee's going to be a good match for the stock market agreement. A senator came on, with the goal of expanding the scope and freedom of farmers and strengthening the consumers of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u270	Madam President. I will keep myself in a dry land, I will keep myself in a place where I live. I am a farmer's house. Farming is wide - wide, and I'm not going to review the 2019 stocks or the financial agreements related, I'm going to focus on one of the factors in this article. Sheep living is the burden of many settlements and is quite stable, with less than 2,500 nests, large and small, and very likely for several years ahead, in connection with improved land use and efficiency. Today, 2,000,2500 tons of sheep are being produced annually beyond consumption, which, in fact, increases as a result of more tourists than farmers plan to place the product more and more money in foreign lands. Then the question is the highest. This minister, in the light of the government budget: There will be further assistance to farmers and beyond, for example. 100 million. K. as has been obtained for international marketing this year? Second, innovation and development work doesn't work out well with the budget, corresponding to 100 to 120 million. K. each year for increased donations. Will a minister take advantage of the fact that money, as it were, goes to development in the fields of sheep and sheep products? Such a contribution to a few years would further the work of sheep farmers today pursue. And yet another: There has only been mention of MAST here, or the Food Organization, a number of important tasks with hands, and rapid growth. It will surprise them that MAST is being made to meet 2% requirement for financial management as soon as I received information about it. Then I ask, "How does that rhyme with a word? ' Minister to take good care of the agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u271	Madam President. As I mentioned earlier, my proposals for the financial program were prior to the MAST report. There are strong indications for the government. We need to be careful at the Ministry, including... to try to support the human resources Agency and other factors. Of course, the Agency itself will then have to divide its work so that it can actually support the supervision it is intended for. I totally trust her to do that. But suggestions for financial programmes were made, as I say before the report. The MAST report offers suggestions on modeling food policy, which will cost you to shape food policy and then try to follow through. Then there's the other thing I think it's very important that we go to, that is, simplify the health monitoring, try to get it on the same hand, where the surveillance of a local partner is on the other hand, and in the case of MAST. It is over and over and over again, whether it is farmers or producers or consumers, spoken of the need to simplify this system. I'm sure it'll cost something, too. But the Agency has to be supportive. In part, I will use the space I have been given to help the Food Institute. In terms of the overproduction, 40 seconds is all there is, too little time to discuss it, when it comes to a later answer. This is a real concern. The farmers have come, and the prayer president has come to discuss these matters repeatedly with me. There must be no way to handle this. It's not enough for me to say, "Let's just put 200 million into it and then we'll see." I need some guarantee that we will not experience it again and again in the face of solving the problem of overproduction on dilka meat. I want to see a long-term solution. I'm ready to use myself that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u272	Madam President. V.E.G. One minister said that he would try to support MAST. I have the key to this, it's just to raise the budget. You can take it somewhere because, in fact, you have a table for a financial plan, or you just get a new income. I just want to mention another, it's a sustainable agriculture that I really care about and what these words really mean, the three-item sustainableness that we talk about, nature, society, economic factors. All of these things if you look at them, the agriculture, the savings, the living and adrift communities, the economics, the good results for the crown, the incentive for sustainability itself, to import farms in the light of self-sustaining. And even if you're looking at both operating compressions -- there's more and more farms, that's going to happen at least in milk production - and all products, how we achieve all the products produced in this country, and how it will really be reversed. Self -versity requires that we take other routes and pursue what I call deportation instead of always looking at more convergence as it is. A senator came to this point, which in some respects resembles what has been going on in the fishing field. I simply ask, this may be a general question: How does this concept reflect a sustainable concept of the State Department itself? It's, of course, a political economics thing is, it's not a corporate business. I want to know how to get to the top. Ministers see self-sufficiency reflected in this national budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u273	V.E.G. President. Only because of MAST. Not necessarily just by placing extra money in the Food Organization, everything will be solved. [[Up front.]] It's not like that. The report, which is very carefully considered by me, clearly states that work management is needed, not only within the agency, but also at the Ministry. The law needs to be checked. I was going to submit a total law on MAST right now at this assembly, but I'll wait on it in view of the tips presented in the report. I believe it is important that we offer practical suggestions, provide a bill that is a whole set of legislation on the Food Institute, which brings the Agency forward. Part of it may be money, but it does not necessarily solve the problem and the activities faced by a Food Institute. I've been talking about how the surveillance needs to be compatible, that's for sure. The responsibility of our community is also great, that they do not always close our door when we ask, the government, for this conversation to try to coordinate our surveillance. It is not acceptable in modern society to have it as it is today, in fact, completely divided, and even very different how the surveillance is done between rural society. Only in the sheep business and in the excess of the produce. The store contract went into effect at the beginning of the year. It's got to be said that I'm just a little surprised that we're three months from the end of the year, and it's already a big problem, this old old problem. I would've thought this was a deal to be dealt with in the livestock deal. It wasn't done, but it plays natural features into it. The market's still closed in China. We've spoken a lot to the Chinese ambassador and the officials we've reached to open the string to China. Norway has not taken the 600 tons, and that is important. It's a deal between us and the Norwegians that they take 600 tons. That contract has not been established, so there are many things to be picked up. [[The president calls.]] However, we need to focus on how we can solve this overproduction problem for a long time, but we do not always bring in this tiny medicine. [[The president calls.]] I'll reiterate it if we find a long-term solution, then I'm ready to apply myself to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u274	Madam President. I hope now to the highest. A minister disagreed when she said it was romance to keep the country inhabited. I hope it is the policy of the government to keep the country inhabited, although it may not be a very clear place in financial planning. V.E.G. The secretary spoke only about the livestock contract. When you look at the agricultural sector, because it's now a financial debate, there's a lot of projects and really nice things. I agree with the minister that it is important to reevaluate risk management arrangements and to increase monitoring of various risk factors and money is put into it. In other respects, priority is said to be within the framework that is a bit difficult in the agricultural section, where the agricultural agreements are most large and that they contract, so it is difficult to see what is allowed in the Minister's frame at any given time. In this contract, where a minister often proselytizes, I notice the magnificent work that was signed, a contract with land healing, and sheep farmers; it is just a project from the livestock agreement, and it is financed on the basis of it; it is here on page 8. 213. It is difficult, though, to discern exactly the amount of money that the minister has. With regard to the fishing route, there are almost every project but one that was funded under the last financial plan, and then there are 525 million in five years, or 100 million a year. It seems to me that when the Ministry grows by 135 million each year, it is increasing by about 65 million each year, except for 2018,2019. However, because of the 2% of this requirement, the frame drops back by 128 million, so there is not much increase. In the other part of the years, there is a 65 million increase each year, and 2% of the number is 1,2,130 million a year, and I agree with it at the highest rate. Ministers when he said that the space may not be much, but it would go to Cape. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The question is, What about all the other tasks to set priorities within the box? There won't be much left in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u275	President. Only with regard to romance is it proper to think that this government is very romantic and sees the whole country in a very romantic but real way. [[Up front.]] We want to keep the romance alive, and that's why we're trying to keep working on matters related to agriculture, seas, environment, but first and last natural to the priorities of the government, which is very clear. We see that over 20 to 40 billion for the rest of each year, despite significant increases in health, social, and other infrastructures. That's what it says to itself, and what it says. A senator knows the best after being a member of a different government, that professional ministers need to know when a particular course is taken. The campaign's greatest instructions were to improve health issues. That's what they're doing. All of us need to focus on that. As I said earlier, I would have liked to see very clearly the targeted financial support of a new ocean research vessel, but I'm not. I'm not going to stop fighting for it, though. In terms of space, you're absolutely right about what you're saying. A senator says it's not much. But I'm trying to inform the United States of the Common Era that the amount of space available to us is still available for research. It is mostly in research, then in an effort to build up MAST. I have reason to believe that in view of that report, the council needs to come later to try to trust the foundations of MAST. In fact, I've submitted it here at the council as a Senate document, and I hope it's the highest. The next week, the president will find room for discussion about that report after Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u276	A respectable president. All of these are beautiful words, as are the articles on, the goals found in chapters 12 and 13 on agriculture and on the fishing road and the fishing industry. We're discussing a financial program. It is true, then, that the minister says that priorities are being set in order to accomplish most of the work. For that purpose, everything else is kept down. That is why it is my question and our senators in this discussion with a unique professional minister: How will people achieve these beautiful words and goals? In the fishing field, we have a Habitat Research Institute - that can use quite a lot more money, I know we're the highest. Ministers agree on that - and the Fish Room and the Food Organization. There are studies under Matis, which are treaties that will not get much money for innovation. How should this be possible when a minister must adhere to a 2% requirement to the small increase between years, 65 million in the fishing road, except for the first year, 2018, and 2019, while the barrier is up to 125 or 130 million each year? In other words, it means that there will be only a great increase in framed and setting of priorities except for quitting some tasks, that is correct. What, though, is the task that has been so overemphasis lately, some quality project that is not to be canceled? Is that an assignment from the Oceanographic Institute? Or is it a project at the Food Institute? Not according to the report and not according to what we have heard from the Oceanographic Institute in recent years. I'm not here talking about an entire ship of several billion. Here, I'm just talking about growing research and innovation and having a chance to put money into those beautiful words and these beautiful ideas that are presented here. How do you do this? We have not received very clear answers from most advisers here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u277	Madam President. It is proper to stress that the claim is just 2%, which is 2% in 2018, then it goes down 2019 and 2020, so that it is maintained. I would've liked to see more money at the Oceanographic Institute. There's nothing wrong with acknowledging it. But I also stress that the big political messages that we received, the voters brought us here at the General, were primarily supporting our health system, the elderly, the desperate, the social affairs, and that is the government's work. I think it's important, and I remind you that in the financial program, Merro also has this opportunity to study our resources. They need more research and money. There is also the need for funding on more days for Cape to do exactly that. But I also want to say that projects don't always last, some projects stop, others come in. This is not always the case with government agencies. But I'd still like to keep my attitude up here that there's a special way to deal with the Habitat Research Institute because of the fish fire. The same goes for MAST, and the same goes for Fish Room. In particular, if we are to make this happen, we need to be especially careful to support these institutions so that new employment practices in the marine field and agriculture can flourish.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u278	President. I'm not completely objective in these matters here, but I have to say that I still feel that the government of the seabed and agriculture has been heard of by fresh winds. The minister of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir took the keys there. I'd like to use my first half here to have a place to talk to. A minister on a fishing road, in particular, to discuss a price that users pay for access to the common resource our fishing grounds are. As a result, the financial programme, or section on goals, standards, and measures, says No. 3, with President's permission: ▪ The aim means that governments progressively contribute to an increase in terms of exchange for the use of common resources in the ocean. And the measure, once again, by permission of the President: ▪ The community's headquarters in resource resources was proportionate to the product of fishing. Now, a respectable president, the sea route has been living under the standard and increased prosperity of the nation throughout the years and is still doing so. Changes in recent years and decades have made this development a more powerful and targeted sector. Iceland's special situation is, in particular, that it does not cover public funds. It is appropriate to use this opportunity to thank the highest degree. Minister for that special situation to be done. The results that have been obtained are much to be imitated, both in the country for other employment and for the fishing grounds of other countries. Now it is time to take the next important step, which is really growing up. A minister has announced an order to the commission for reimbursement in the fishing field. The plan has, of course, been able to access the budget, but I am an impatient woman, so I ask the highest level. Minister: What news?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u279	Madam President. The answer is that everything is good news. I'm waiting for an appointment from one political class so that I can appoint a committee that has the responsibility of making peace with them for the payment and arrangements for the sea espionage, the basic work of our Icelanders. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator's need for this to happen as soon as possible. I can see that the committee will be arranged for Easter, if all works out, but that it will then have room for this year to be returned. I have emphasized that I wanted to take the fishing route and the agriculture out of the holes or shell warfare that political groups of all the spectrum have taken to the court before election. I want this to be won as soon as possible, in the previous part of the season, so politicians can surmount the factors they believe will promote further reconciliation with the water. Like what? A senator correctly introduced it is absolutely amazing that he is not overreached by the Icelandic government. That's one of the questions that we get very commonly in the groups that come here to study the Icelandic fishing system. There we must be careful and careful, though pressure may be strong, or indirect, in order to cover possible pay or any other aspects of the project. I consider our situation in Iceland to be good in the waters of the sea. I also consider space now and opportunity to be there by my conversations with people of all categories, people wanting to make peace. We want to finish this so that we can simply put our arms around the article so that we will discuss it in a positive and upbuilding way rather than always arguing about what the arrangement should be like. We need to keep building the seabed. This is done by politicians who take responsibility and try to form the reconciliation and make up the reconciliation that has to do with the depositing of the fishing grounds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u280	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. So it's half past the afternoon, and I'd like to take another case, which is agriculture. I'm going to, by permission of the president, quote the Constitution in which it says: It is important to focus on increasing production, interest and choice of consumers and farmers and variety of products. [...] The import equipment must be reviewed and the grounds for variation from competitive legislation for the milk industry must be reviewed and appropriate changes made. A respectable president. I want a modification period, as you might call it, so it's appropriate, too. However, these footprints are evident in the agricultural programme, where there can be an increased aim for agrienvironment schemes and activities to promote further awareness in the environment of the article, so I will continue to read from these landmarks here. One of the most important factors. Agricultural minister has already proclaimed a review of the milk beyonds of the milk industry's terms of competitiveness. I am very interested in hearing from the highest. Minister on which issue is now a matter. I also want to pray to the highest. Minister to bring up reports of a published review of routes due to the distribution of tollovates for agricultural products. Again, I remind you of the highest. A agricultural minister should here stand an impatient woman.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u281	Madam President. For the import options, these rules will not change until next year's. We assumed that the European Union would accept the import waste now in April/mar which would take effect immediately this summer, but I have received reports that the European Union will not complete this situation until the second part of this year, which means that we are facing real changes for the next year. That means extra space for us at the Ministry to review a new arrangement. It's not easy. You cannot find the only solution to consumers, fit producers, immigrants, and farmers. Happily, though, we have more time to examine the arrangement. My guide to importing the box is to ensure the right of consumers, more product selection and freedom, and we must be able to do so. In terms of competition in the milk industry or the lack of competition in the milk industry, I, as it is well known, put in the light of open informed administration, presented till a bill on the Ministry's Web as an understudy or a special rule of the milk industry from competitive law. It was a review, and the reaction varied. Some felt that I wasn't going far enough while others were not too jumpy about the proposal, but we keep going and we're going to be careful. What needs to be taken care of when we review these indications is that milk is collected everywhere is secure. It needs to be solidified. I see that collecting milk will be free of competitive laws, that of being able to draw milk anywhere in the country, regardless of cost, of our country, for our community responsibility. Then there is the access to raw milk, being equal, in order to promote innovation in the article. [[The president calls.]] These are the factors that we need to keep in mind as we consider these changes. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to give you a bill on these matters next fall. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, we will review the indications and comments that have been received.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u282	A respectable president. You may want to start here after the speech of the first speaker to wish the minister of good luck to find this blessed reconciliation when it comes to fishing. For a long time, I thought it was almost impossible to feel at peace. The only thing we have agreed on is that we want the article to pay for the use, but then we fight about everything else, including the amount it is due to pay. I'd rather go to something else I'm pretty optimistic about, at least, that maybe me and the minister can get together, and it's about a project I've heard is now called the Maturo of Iceland. The minister introduced it, I think, whether it was at a meeting today or yesterday where it was just introduced this new name known under Iceland's Food Land, a project that started or was funded from 2015 on how we could promote our food culture and the experience of related food. And then they're even looking to me. Sweden, where they have called their task Try Sweetish, has been successful in increasing jobs in the food trade sector and in increasing shops with Swedish food. We'd look at our natural Icelandic groceries, and we'd consider exporting them. I also know that Sweden has often been able to shop for the government and the government on the purchase of domestic food products. We are so lucky that our exports, or those who consume our product, have arrived in the country. This year we receive 2.4 million tourists who are being predicted. As an example of some well - known individuals who have indeed called attention to Icelandic foods, there are the Kardashian sisters who went and visited the World of Peace in their time, who ate tomatoes and pasta with tomatoes and tomatoes and tomatoes, and I don't know what to eat. [[The president calls.]] So I would be very interested in hearing from the minister, but as noted, she has limited money but great will and strength, how she can see to it that as many tourists come to the country as most of Icelandic food. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u283	Madam President. I think that the project I presented today at the Hotel History, the Farming Palace, can contribute to this, i.e. It's Iceland's food red. We had to change our names, Iceland's Food Land was in place on another project so it wouldn't cause confusion. I think that's exactly what we're talking about. We're talking about this in the country, this isn't supposed to be exporting, this is designed to build up culture, the environment at home in the food fields. We're talking about increasing our awareness of our culture, the diversity of our food supply, the culture associated with it; the culture, and the history. When we go abroad, we know for ourselves that the local interest is great what the local people have to say, what their local speciality is in each area. It is so vivid that we are closer to the nation. I think, and I'm convinced that through our culture of Iceland, tourists are going to connect even more. This includes: We're going to need to get some farming done. There is certainly a concern where tourists, tourists in Iceland, have increased so much, up to 2 million, up to 2.5, 2.6 this year, that their consumption, e.g. No more lamb. But I am also optimistic about how we can contribute to an increase in consumption because we have come along and have excellent chefs who have begun to change the way they make the meat. People do not necessarily like lamb. It's not in their upbringing right now. Sad to say, the tourists have the opportunity to get to know our Icelandic great lamb. We do this by making various types of meals, connecting them to the story, linking them in all kinds of ways. One talked about the trolls, looked at me, and said, "We can introduce you to the ogres, some ideanail was there." But I think there are some things that we can do with our food culture and at the same time encourage food production, food interest, and possibly the overproduction we have on dilka meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u284	A respectable president. In a survey I came across, some 74% of Icelanders consider lamb and lamb meat to be our national rights. It must be our goal that no one would pretend to be with a man who has come to Iceland without having tasted our lamb. The same can be said of the fish record, people don't come to Iceland without eating our fish. As an example now while we've been in this discussion here, I've watched David Lebovitz from then on at his house, a known blogmaker, chef, and writer, who is clearly here in the country, has 152,000 followers in Instantram. He's showing the Icelandic food shovel. He's now at Kol eating lamb and he was eating our cords, so it was at breakfast there. This is of utmost importance. I understand that sheep farmers are trying to get the lamb into the Bocuse d'Or contest, which is a natural huge event, and Icelandic cooks are getting good results there. We can see that our first restaurant is getting Michelin a star, which is also a big event. I'm always getting more convinced that it's just a huge opportunity if we start watching it. I think the Minister is getting close to this when she starts talking about the land of knowledge, when she might take her past as a minister of education and try to promote it, we try to educate people in how we can develop our products, and we offer that people don't come to Iceland without eating Icelandic food. Then we don't have to worry about any exports. Or even import.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u285	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for this pleasant and rewarding approach to our food production. This is exactly the case with our cooks, our students, e.g. of MK. I was there at the opening of the Food & Fun at the beginning where they were there, the students, presenting what they were doing. The thought, approach, was a bit like just being at the art university how they thought it, took advantage of the lava, took advantage of all kinds of new ways. You think: There will be only new production, there will be something else that we do not know even as they do, or they will offer future tourists and travelers. This is what they're doing, they're linking it to other fields of industry, designers, arts, possible steel industry, or other industry into the food industry. That's what I find so incredibly exciting. Let's say it comes - we're talking about 2.5 million this year - 2 million tourists. Each tourist may be here for a week, eating two meals a day, most meals in a medium and more, than two meals a day, giving it to us. That means 77,000 meals a day, every day. It's an amazing amount of money we have to try to make so they can feed themselves these days, these nice travelers. I want to thank you. A senator for developing and producing these positive factors that are taking place in the agriculture sector in connection with travel services. That's important. Just a moment about the giant case, a little bit. A senator came into his first question of reconciliation that it may just not be possible to reach it. I say, "If I don't believe in the reconciliation, for you are fighting for it, who else will believe in it?" [[The president calls.]] I believe that it is possible to do so. This requires that politics settle down on the years to make that peace. [[The president calls.]] We all need to yield, but we need a view of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u286	A respectable president. I'll get a tip on a few things, cross the sea and land, which are the language of the highest. Minister. The Icelandic U.S.A. is a great source of strength these days. It pinches the muscles. It doesn't look good on her somehow, and she doesn't feel comfortable with it, and she'll be left out in World Class. And we haven't seen all that, for the next two or three years, the cost is still growing. It is said that the structure has a problem today, at least Part of it. Even today, the largest of the fishing projects were less successful, but less developed. Tells you the highest. Secretary of the court. that there may be some more specific, cutting action to take on the less deforestation in the country? Something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How does a minister see that our income for the entire population of the ocean's combined resources is developing during this new period of ours? Are any aspects of this strategy based on the fact that the stock market is part of it? What does she think will bring us great benefits? How does it feel that a review of the fishing system will affect the article during this period, which and how? So you get out of the stocks, only about self-sustaining. How does a minister support sustainable agriculture, adapting the production of the market situation primarily within the country, subsidies, and perhaps I also refer to the high aims of sheep farmers we were learning from during the days? When does a minister assume that the competition in the dairy industry will be restored to its goal? [[The president calls.]] What effect does it have on the article and the producers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u287	Madam President. Reduced, specific actions. I don't like specific procedures. I'd rather work to create a standard protocol that is transparent to everyone, know what they're doing. That is why it is so important for us at the Senate Hall to achieve this reconciliation that many feel is unrealistic, but I believe that it is possible to achieve it first and last to live in stability for a long time. There is no stability, however, that every four years, and even every year, an argument is made about what to pay for the access and access rights to the resource. Therefore, the decision must be made in this matter, both for the development and for the community. I've been asked that question earlier today: Shall the discount be extended? Today's discount, it's a big misunderstanding when people think that it's my only fault. He's not. I think there are other ways to go than to extend the discount. I won't use it to make him longer. In terms of the review, I intend to refer it to the Committee that it will complete this year in order to present a bill immediately during the next spring session. I'd like to say about the ways that we're going to go back to London, we've spoken very clearly before the marketing route. We'd like that route to be gone. This will be considered by the committee. She'll look at even. the same is true of the present system, and even it oversees possible tax laws on the article. There are several ways you can go to collect the amount needed for the resource use. It is the role of this committee that will soon begin to operate, but it will appoint representatives of all seven political parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u288	A respectable president. I'd like to stress that I'm no special spokesman for any specific action, but I'm concerned about these circumstances. There's still going to be a step, maybe about 10% to 2019. That's in the light of what I'm calling it. What would a minister consider the development of the project to last so long? Or is this an unnecessary concern over the development? The fish farmers' business. Is the government going to be driven, not taking sides on how much money we're going to make? Is it going to strengthen the policy frame? The sector itself cries out that it is too much of a release. The Geiri themselves have great ambition. But they complain that they may not get enough of the rules and that the rules are not clear enough. What's the top count? Minister normal for the article to pay for it? In my first speech this evening, I mentioned that fishermen had discussed the need for this article, even before a longer and dignified minister has said that we should take it slowly, to get a frame plan in the article. Just a minute about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u289	Madam President. Fish breeds are huge, they are exciting, and they are a means for us Icelanders to trust our foundations in the community. It will be, as I have said, to be slow and slow with regard to life, nature, environment, and reconciliation in the closer community around the fish farms, but also in the community. I'm sorry I've only been in office three months, but I'm going to get this frame. I've been putting pressure on the committee that was taken into operation when I started at the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry to return this summer. That's what she's supposed to do on June 30. You're absolutely right. A senator says that we need to be more critical than the rest of the design of rules, that the council is about to shape rules, perhaps guidelines on fish farming matters, where there is a clear schedule and supervision. I'd like to highlight what we've always said and that's true in a fish farm too; those who have access to the limited resources of the country should pay a price for it. They're supposed to pay the resource fees. However, we need to take into account the fact that this is a relatively young article. We're gonna have fish farms. This means that we expect them to invest in the best equipment, invest in research, and invest in the infrastructure as well. It will cost a certain amount of energy and a certain amount of money. It is not likely that we will follow a similar route as did the Norwegians who later took resources when the article was better established, but we will also learn from the Norwegian experience. At that time, resource expenditure will be taken, and a part of the resource expenditure will be left at home in the province in order to improve the content of the article as such. It has many opportunities. We're gonna get rid of this release as fast as possible. A senator talked about it. I'm going to have a clear policy later this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u290	Madam President. I'm going to swerve in my first talk, my health issues in a financial program. The main focus of the health - care programme is to increase the focus on prevention and public health as well as improve access to health care. It will be endeavoring to improve the effectiveness of the ministry, making it easier for individuals to seek service in the right place, in the most suitable places for subjects and problems. Efforts to promote a multidisciplinary health service aim toward this goal, to try to prevent individuals from seeking special service, even emergency services, when this may not be necessary. The main challenge of multidisciplinary health care is the growth of different professional groups, e.g. Mental - health professionals, physical therapists, and nutritionists. This helps to increase the likelihood that patients' needs for service are needed earlier and that they will reduce the need for more complex measures. The aim is to reduce the proportion of patients in hospital emergency departments who should rather receive medical services from 20% to 10% by 2022. During this period, it is assumed that at clinics, there are at least six health - care groups in each medical facility in 2022. Elders also have a bearing on this purpose. By promoting and integrating aging services, it is possible to make it more possible for individuals to live their own home for as long as possible. In this connection, the balanced service is key, and we agree that we can do better there, e.g. by further linking home services, health care, hospitals and services to the elderly, e.g. during the day, rehabilitation, or nursing homes In this context, I say that health support may be the key. The financial program is designed to promote home nursing as well as increase the number of day - to - day resorts and spaces in nursing homes over the period. At the beginning of the financial program, there will be four new nursing homes already planned. At the end of this period there is also expected to be an increase in nurses. The objective is to increase the number of nurses by 292 and by day 150. When it comes to the services of hospitals, the highest building of a new land hospital is located on Ring Road. Another existing building in the area of Hospitals will be improved. It aims to complete the construction of the treatment core at the Ring Road, the heart of the new Land Hospital in 223 C.E. The project is already begun with the construction of a medical hotel that will be expected to be used before the end of the year. For other buildings on the land of the Land Hospital, plans for soil and street projects to begin at the beginning of the next year, and this is also expected to begin preparatory and cross-cutting at the beginning of the next year. The hospital's work in Akureyri will also be strengthened, especially in the latter part of the period, when it is expected to start a new ward at the hospital. The aim of improving integration and improving access to services has to do with health institutions around the country. Their work must be strengthened, especially with regard to the use of valuable things, human resources, housing, and equipment there. The aim is to increase access to a more targeted health care provider that can be provided in a healthcare field close to the individual. Thus, with increased cooperation and support from special hospitals in public hospitals, a wide range of services can be provided in close environments for a large majority of the population today. The financial programme will also continue to improve access to specific measures, with a so - called waiting list campaign, which will continue the period and try to spit in. The work field and prevention will continue to be supported. As mentioned earlier, healthy life - styles become emphasised, and there are hopes to, for example, be expected. The ministry of nutritionists in the medical field has a good effect. I see my time is running out, but we've got plenty of time for the discussion. The financial plan reflects the importance of powerful guardians, wholesome ways of life, and fine service that is readily available and safely available. To achieve these goals, it is essential that the healthcare professional has enough qualified personnel. The education and training of health care professionals are important, but more importantly, that the work environment is attractive to interested and powerful workers who have the opportunity to provide good service. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u291	Madam President. I'd like to start praying to the highest level. A minister to do a little more detail in the larger picture of health issues. When the increase in health care is broken down and taken away to the construction of a Lands Hospital at a U.S. university hospital, i.e. to the building itself, to the equipment plan, to the larger hospitals, to shorten the waiting list and other specific items, which, of course, are all positive, I wondered, because it is not easy to see what is really left to the actual health care and health care management programme and to improve health care according to the schedule. On the other hand, I want to ask the highest. Minister on that. On the other hand, I'd like to pray to the highest. Minister to discuss a little more carefully the plans for the construction of nursing homes, which I wondered would be far from meeting needs. If I heard correctly, I said the highest. Minister to speak of four new nursing homes. On page 18. The budget of 304 refers to the construction of three new nursing homes, two in the capital area, and one in the annual city, but in a summary on page 5. 68, though, says that five new nursing homes are expected to be built, including three of them, by the direct cost of a government fund. Is there something else to be built that is somehow otherwise financed? If the highest. A minister might answer that question in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u292	Madam President. Thank you for the many questions. I'll try to talk really fast. When we look at the overall health issue, about 22% increase in budget during the entire season. This shows that health matters are put first. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator to build a new hospital is a large part of these extra expenses. We figure that's about what we're talking about. A 10% increase if the hospital building is taken away in the current schedule. It is important that we do not forget that in the years past, 2017, there is one of the biggest increases in expenses for memory health care, or just about 10% that we are holding in. Only when it comes to hospital expenses is there an increase of more than 5 billion per year. That's how it's gonna be 2018 and go. Remarkable about the development of nursing homes. Four new homes are in preparation or in a building now. Their construction will be completed, but it is then assumed that the latter part of the period, 2020, 2021, and 2022 will be improved if I remember correctly. Three new nursing homes are expected to be directly from the government. Then the rural communities also have plans to build up in nursing homes. I guess that's where this number comes from, five more new nursing homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u293	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to add to the nursing home and ask about the possibility that the provision currently available to the people will be expected to take money from the elderly's labour fund, stop in time, or whether it is intended to be continued. So a little bit more about the big movie. Once what goes into the construction of the Land Hospital has been taken care of, 7.3 billion will remain in another location. It is, as I mentioned earlier, done to shorten the waiting list, etc. Does the Minister think that there is likely room to reduce the patient's cost of involvement in the system? It is very general in the plan that it will always be taken into account as the wind progresses whether it is possible. I would like to ask a minister: Do Ministers think it is simply likely that they will be able to do so within the space? Finally, Madam President. Is there room within the schedule to meet the needs of the Akureyri Hospital for a new division wing designed to improve unacceptable mental activity and other aspects of the operation there? What is the minister's position on the matter, considering that the Hospital in Akureyri is defined as one of the two separate hospitals in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u294	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for good questions again. It is assumed that there will be room for them to leave the habit of shifting money from the fund to the nursing staff. Whether we can turn it all the way is only vague yet, but we will at least do our best. Money is expected to do that. Also, the plan has been assigned or assumed that considerable funds are going to reduce the expense of patients. However, it has not yet been determined how it will work out or what emphasis it will be. When it comes to the expense of patients' participation, the natural big news is the tremendous changes that will now be made in May by a new payment system. I assume that the experience of this induction will, to some extent, dictate the emphasis we put on the next steps to reduce the patient's expense. Regarding a new level of Akureyri, I mentioned running in my history that it was assumed that the construction of the newcomer in Akureyri would begin in the late part of the season. This procedure will not be completed during the period in relation to the current schedule, but it is expected to begin at that time. Because of what? A senator specifically asked me about my opinion on this subject, I believe that a very important and professional job is being done in the Akureyri hospital. I think it is very important that we continue to be strengthened, both for the Norwegian, but also as part of our special hospital system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u295	Madam President. Here, members of the government stand for hours and days explaining in detail why this plan is bad and really dangerous. That's the sad answers we've been getting so far from the counsellors and the so - called greater portion that had less in elections. The sad answers, Madam President, are because we are at a turning point as a nation, whether people realize it or not. There is a medical emergency, there is no doubt that economic growth will continue and what we now do will have consequences. V.E.G. According to health minister Óttarr Proppé, after he went to these unpopular government activities that have wiped out his class and his surveys, he has suffered some attacks. The highest charges have been made by some candidates. Ministers to sell their souls for the Minister's chair and say he has shown by this great lust for power, opportunity, and other even worse qualities that I will not list here. I can't believe it, Madam President. It's a small community enough to be able to identify people with questions and friendships, know them well enough to know that the highest. Proppé is no villain. On the contrary, I think that he is doing good by means of a government organization and that he has considered it his job to influence this other wicked, extreme government. It's just been a failure. Although I understand the highest. At this point, a minister may find this difficult to recognize, and this financial plan illustrates. The Congress is agreeing to a five-year plan that puts the whole community and health system in a straitjacket until the age of five, so I witness to financial advice. I know it's the highest. Minister thinks he's doing the best thing in the situation. But I also know that he is wrong. I know he's got enough skills to look after himself, because it's pretty clear. I believe that, in time, the effects will be the most intense. Minister Óttarr Proppé apologize for his actions here today. Madam President. We're making a big, big mistake here. Eventually, no one will wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u296	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for making my character the main thing in his speech. I have to deal with it in some way. I would like to say that these attacks and what has been said about my personal involvement or the future of this government have been a number of factors. I'd like to state that you're right next door. On the contrary, I do not believe that I have sold my soul for the Ministership or participation in this government, but I regard it as a vital role for our political duties to shoulder responsibility, that we view our responsibilities, whether they are here at council or on the Minister's chair, as a service to the public and to the common people who chose us according to the democratic system of this country. I can't say what to say. On the contrary, the senator says that the government that puts up a financial plan is a wicked fanatical regime. This is a five - year financial program, which is in harmony with the emphasis on the future of Bears in Polish, on long - term thinking, on average. It is not only a plan but also a financial policy that was adopted today, which has a softening effect on the expansion and the Icelandic economy. There is also an increase in expenses, however, with a greater degree of priorities for the welfare of others and, especially, a health professional who sees the most important financial expenditures. I don't agree with what. A senator when he speaks of things getting worse. On the contrary, I am rather pleased with this financial plan, even though I had certainly been pleased with the more money I received from a seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u297	Madam President. I'd like to apologize if I offended the highest. Minister by making his character a big point on this matter, but I think it's important that I want people to remember this moment as quickly as possible. V.E.G. True, a minister has endured many unfair things, as I once said, it was not my intention to add to that. I take strong words because we're discussing serious things. At the short time I've been at the General Assembly, I sometimes feel like there's a certain play going in between. I don't often speak in this council hall, and only if there's something in my heart. I could probably have said those same words to the highest level. A minister under four eyes if it hadn't taken him weeks to find time to meet with me, which is another matter. I don't like to be hitting him, but he's probably the conscience of the government. Yet it is the most common wish I hear when I go through downtown and talk to people, they almost always ask me, voters, to hit at the highest. Óttarrir Proppér of the Pontta AlIIis, not because he's something worse than all the rest of the government, but just the opposite. His health - care clients are just disappointed because they expected everything else out of this direction. I try my best every day to be optimistic. So I understand the highest. There is a minister who teaches himself about a bright future, but there is a difference between optimism and self - deception, Madam President. There is no reason for optimism when governments turn the nation into a straitjacket for five years of freedom of choice, procreation of their ludicrous plan that this will be the longest and most economic growth in the whole of Iceland's history. Then you get the answers from more than one of the highest. Minister after all of this, this completely unbridled economy, if miracles happen, you will first be able to attack the actual infrastructure. Whether one is lying to himself or to anyone else or to anyone else, this is a lie. This financial scheme is not merely symbolic of where we are going now but binding. I'm sorry, but I think we're all going to remember that night when we wake up with a bad dream within a few years, and the financial program has become a mill around the neck of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u298	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the fire speech. I still have to disagree. A chairman of the foundation because I believe that it is, so that I repeat myself, one of our main responsibilities which are elected to trust at the General and which have the majority of support at the General Assembly to sit in the government, however, the greater things may be, or not, to show responsibility, to take our person out of parent out of parent barriers, not to be fond of popular wishes, but to do us well for our clients who are the Icelandic people, who are the common people, and from whether it may arouse us in popularity or in the future votes. I have put my heart into all my work my will and stressed my best to prevent my interests, my limited interests, or my personal taste from following my ways, and will continue to do so. I reiterate what I said in my previous reply that I think this financial plan is good, it's a responsibility. She's in line with the position as she's evaluated. On the contrary, it is not the government that makes national forecasts, that is, made up of the situation and the measurement available. In fact, financial advisers have said that the problem of financial policy is that there is not enough support. [[The president calls.]] I believe that a part of this is a modest schedule, that it is both shown here, but it is also shown to be an increase in expenses, especially for welfare matters that are important to be increased. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u299	Madam President. This is one of our most important discussions in this room. Of course, it is a privilege to live in a land where there is a parapolitic agreement that health care is as good as possible for all. Although it is our responsibility to deal with the precise way of doing so, it is a privilege. I wanted to have a conversation with the highest. Minister. First, I'd like to stop for a moment about the construction of a new hospital. This has often been included in the discussions here, usually under certain merits. I'm not going to go to generality, but I've heard a lot of news that except for the construction of a new hospital, there's going to be an increase in total donations and so much. The numbers are about to remind me that there will be a 20% total increase in donations for the hospital service. That's why there are 9% over the period, except for the construction of a new hospital - if I get to continue with it. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[To the point: This is wrong.]] [[Up front.]] I'll just keep going, thank you. I just wanted to say that it's amazing that we're building this hospital. This, of course, is part of our medical care. Just as the doctors'pay, this building is part of the medical system, and it matters. I just want to congratulate all of us that this step has been taken, that funds have been put aside from the last government, and that has continued right now. I just wanted to remind you how important it is. I'd like to hear if the Minister doesn't agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u300	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'd like to go to bed. A senator spoke of the increase to hospitals as 22%; the increase over the period to health care is 22%. A new hospital is a very large part of it, approx. Half the total increase. I have to agree that a new hospital is very important. I know there from my previous life in the city of Reykjavík that a new hospital service started in Reykjavík in 1975 and that we have been working hard on this building now for 20 years, if not anymore. In fact, it was in that time that the last government ever began with the design of a new Landspira mental hospital. During the last term, a hospital hotel building was started on the property that will be started in use later this year. What wonderful news! I'm not going to take this assignment or this government, but it is very important and a sign of priorities in this financial programme that these programs are being conducted and that the treatment core is being completed by 2020, as stated in the Constitution and financial programmes. Not only is a new hospital important as a house but it is also a working environment because the health - care system is especially the staff involved. The health - care specialists and caring for their health - care providers are very important. Experts may not be available and want to work for us. A good work environment and a new hospital are key to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u301	Madam President. Thank you. I'm sure I thought I would have said it that way, yeah. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, about 20% have gone to hospital service. I'm sorry if I put it somehow different. But I'm going to get back to my case. I'm standing in front of these matters about the hospital, which I think otherwise is an incredibly important and important project. But there's something else I'd like to talk to you about. I'd like to hear more information from a minister on the ideas of a new system of payment. It sounds like one of the most remarkable steps ever taken, I'm not talking about the sickest of patients, since I understand that the idea is that the roof is in place so that those who are the least of them are relatively weaker. I understand that there is really some equal thought that those who are lucky rarely have to go to some kind of hospital service, pay more possibly even more, or whatever the case, in order to cooperate with the task that those who are the most ill get the most help. The figures I have mentioned in this context - and I'm not talking about it being talking about 1.5 billion a year on this project only when it is fully effective. The plan says that more than 3 billion people are going to cut down payment departments in general for patients and that's a great deal of ambition to me. I wanted to finally, as I know I'll get a minister back here in a pita, to ask about it so I can understand it better -- I've been in this pit before, and I've talked about the situation of psoriasis patients, which the nature of the case, according to the nature of the cases, possibly day after day, and maybe just 30 seconds at a time, but I might have to pay each time. For them, the payment department may be large in comparison with others. I want to know more about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u302	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sverrisdóttir ofverrisddóttir for the inquiry. The payment system was adopted by the General Assembly last year and is now on May 1. This is certainly a big step because we have seen that there has not been equal among patients. Depending on the afflicting nature of a person, a person may sometimes ask himself, " Do I tend to be random by the time when I start treatment, whether the cost is high or low? ' The new system of payment is designed to solve its impossible condition, i.e. to start by equalizing the patient's health system costs so that it is covered. In particular, extra coins are put in order to lower roofs to children, families, elderly ones, and microorganisms. There's gonna be a big change for the system. The effects on groups have been calculated as sodium chloride. At any rate, the system is designed so that certain groups are not affected, but we need a little to see how it will work. Most people who enjoy regular health care end up below the roof, like possible psoriasis patients. If they do not go to any other health care providers, there may be increases, but the system is designed to allow the cost of the event to exceed 24 yous. and, by any means, during the first month, the patient is already in a discount system for the remainder. [[The president calls.]] Once the system is built, we too need only to learn from the experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u303	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the story. I just wanted to mention that at the end of the last council, cross-collar reconciliation was achieved when all health committees agreed on in a committee study to reduce the payment of patients. The whole committee agreed that this was the first step towards a better payment system and that more services would also need to be added to the system as soon as possible and to combine the pay program for medical and pharmaceutical care. It was noted in the SEC that the pay button should not exceed 50 points. K. on a man, and not above 33 thoust. K. have children, disability, and the elderly. However, we now read reports that there will be some 70 counts of payment. K. and 46 yous. K. In some cases, children, disability and the elderly. I feel like there's some uncertainty about these numbers. I have to say, when I read a five-year financial program, I think it's a little strange that political policy is not any bigger or that men are not willing to make a commitment to this transverse agreement. I read to film here, and I want to, with president's permission, to witness directly to the plan, which says: A new system of credits takes on force and aims to reduce the patient's cutoff in time. According to one estimate, contributions due to this new system will be listed in the following and the numbers, but it is not specifically mentioned how these things affect patients themselves. I really miss it when we're going over this big, great document that you can't make any more commitment. Perhaps I have missed that, and that's why I want to ask the highest question. Minister: What is the situation? I'd be very grateful if I could have a clear answer and a dollar count.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u304	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In May 2017, a new patient - adopted system of charge is taking effect. It is in accordance with budgetary contributions determined by the World Council of Funds for this year, so it is not now taken up by this financial system any more than it is financed. Additional contributions to the system are about 1.5 billion, which I mentioned just before and is intended to reduce the cost of children's families, the elderly, and the desperate, and will continue. The numbers that were on. A senator mentioned the facts. There has been no change in numbers or roof schedules for individual patients. The system, however, is extremely complex. This is because the cost of an adult enterprise, such as mine and my bad, is the result. The senator does not exceed 50 of you. K. In the year, and in the children, and in the poor, and in the aged, not above 33 thou. K. each year as shown by a welfare committee, except in absolutely exceptional circumstances. Care should be taken to ensure that there is a possibility, if individuals were not in any part of the healthcare system, and if there is a very bad chance during the discount period, the cost of the event should be increased. The reason why contributions designed to reduce the cost of public participation during the period covered by financial programmes are not further implemented. Because of this big change made by a new system of payment and also that we are going to put new money to reduce the cost, but we need to determine exactly where and how we will do it and how we can do it, and that may become evident in our implementation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u305	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for these answers, which were somewhat in terms of the increase in clarity in this dollar number. I have to say, this is one of the biggest cases in Icelandic society these days. We hear very sad stories about people who have to rely on very large sums of money and may be in situations that are extremely difficult for them, sometimes very tragic. So, I hope it's as the Minister is saying, the payment isn't over this 50-point line. K. The reason I think there's such a suspicion against the system is because the government is putting in this five-year financial program, and that's not a proper implementation. It is not a political commitment to such a big matter clearly. That's why this suspicion is so. There is no particular transparency in the budget. I am convinced that it could have been avoided if men had just committed themselves and this was clear. Besides, I don't think it's too much to do simply because it's your big commitment in the terms of how you're going to split your budgets. I think it's a rather cold greeting to patients that there's no better export on this than it really is. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the following: What's the plan to get drugs and medical care into one payer? It would be very interesting to hear what the plan is. I would also like to hear the minister's viewpoint on information sharing, because I often feel like a lot of patients and even health - care professionals don't know exactly how these matters are being handled. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to hear it from the highest level. Minister how to meet these concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u306	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir for the questions. To answer, the 2018 -2022 financial program is, of course, a financial program. This is not a rated budget for every year. It is essentially a box of 34 languages, and then there is a defined emphasis behind this frame. For this reason, accurate implementation is not out of the question. The financial program allows for an increase in money to reduce the cost of patient participation, but this is not implemented, and as I mentioned, it is done by deliberate minds, not to hide anything or to make it confusing, but to get the most out of it. Now a major change is being made in the 1st of May when a new payment system is being used. We can expect something to surprise us about how the system will turn out. We also assume that there may be some change in how individuals use the health system, hopefully to get a better service. But it's a responsibility when we have legal rights that we need to see how the system's using resources before we take the next step. Of course, when it comes to the healthcare system's preparation system, it is the long-term goal, but there are two very important changes to the water that we need before we take the next step. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with what. A senator says we should take it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u307	Madam President. I'd like to start by celebrating what is presented in the financial program, but it shows, to be sure, that the government is setting priorities for health and welfare. This is an ambitious plan, and I must say that a minister of the press has been very successful in the management of the highest business. Secretary of finance. According to that, I don't suppose so, Madam President, to the highest degree. A health minister had to have his arm turned to the top of his arm in particular. The secretary of finance ends up completely in line with the policy of restoration and the government, setting priorities for this group of lawsuits that we address here, and that is a cause for joy. In particular, I would like to mention an increased availability of mental - health service. According to the programme, there is considerable improvement in access to mental health care at clinics, including with increasing mental - health status values from 22.5 to 40 before 2022. And I'm also glad that in the plan, a shorter waiting period is expected to be arranged for the services of the children's and teenagers at the Land Hospital. You see, as we all know, good mental health is not only important to those who enjoy it but also an enormously important key to economic and social development in society. These priorities are just something that has been very important in the European Union, but it has much to do with the link between good mental health and quality of life and good mental health and production and economic growth. I would like to ask a minister about this whether some kind of goal or plan was set or an assessment of how much better the health of the people of the land could have on the economy and production in the long term in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u308	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for interesting and good questions. In fact, at first I'd like to agree with what. Senator, I don't want to mean that, in particular, the upper hand had to be turned up. When it came to putting health interests first in a financial program, a minister of finance. Health matters are put in particular, not only in the Government Treaty, but also in the policies of all the government groups and, in fact, all political parties at the General Assembly; and in a series of surveys, I want to deny the outcome of the election, point out that much more of the country's members agree that the health issues are meant to be top priority. For mental - health matters, as for others. A senator made special publicity, then the structure of mental - health services is a special focus for us and for us. It contains a very important task of increasing the number of psychologists, as well as the so - called mental - health professionals, in cooperation with the city of Reykjavík. There is an attempt to increase the number of these melancholy cases. Also, shortening the waiting list to the BUGL, Pediatrics and Teenages Department, like whatnot. A senator mentioned. Mental health may be the most important part of our health care. There is much to do. For example, we have emphasized that in the short future, we expect to place money in a financial program that can be useful to us in some form of public health care. [[The president calls.]] I guess I'll have to find it better in later on in my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u309	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to do this later, especially in the country, to start with something that is also extremely important to me about the country, but it's health care. I would like to start by celebrating the programs that show up here that will strengthen the health care system as the first stop. This is particularly important in those terms where health care is the main health care provider, i.e. in the settlements. It truly requires a better access to national health care. Therefore, in particular, I would like to welcome the increase in the number of different professional groups that the minister entered just once in his own heart, in every medical matter, i.e. that there will be a minimum of six health professionals in each medical district in 2022. This certainly does have a great record of service for clients in the country. It's supposed to be a celebration. At the same time, health care services are expected to be more accessible so that the proportion of patients in emergency departments who should prefer to receive medical services is reduced from 20% to 10% by 2022. This is of utmost importance in reducing the pressures of the Land Hospital and the very good it is that money is coming to meet this urgent need, for this will be a step toward improving the service of the Land Hospital. I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers to distant health care, which he mentioned only in his previous reply. According to a financial programme, work will be in accordance with the proposal of a remote health service group from May 2016. I noticed that I could not quickly see that the table I studied expected cost. So I wanted to ask the highest. A minister would it be proper to conclude that the introduction of distant health services that are not at the expense of service?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u310	Madam President. Of course, there is a cost of long - term health care, but in the large context, when we look at the health system, it is low that it is not expected to be in a budget for five years. Efforts in distant health care have been under way and are being strengthened. I think it will be a very important part of health care, of course, in the more scattered areas than in the general setting, as seen in other nations, e.g. in New Zealand, and has had a very positive influence in increasing individual service. So we return to our mental - health routines, and health care is a very important first meeting in health care and especially when it comes to mental - health care and health care, as well as to promote health in people. It is also important in this first phase of service that we reduce gray areas between government - provided health services and rural social services, but often the same individuals have services in both places. It is important that these systems work together as a team. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned a previous question, about the national benefit of being good at mental health, I think it is of great importance. We see a high level of disability, and we know that much of that growth is due to mental health problems. Of course, this is a national problem, but it is no less a problem for those who are ill. [[The president calls.]] This must be the basis for the health system, such as the system of things, that individuals are comfortable and have a happy, productive life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u311	A respectable president. Two minutes is not enough to converse with the highest level. Health Minister to discuss all the issues needed. I have decided to discuss two things today that are very important in order to promote and improve my health. In the short future, we have talked about promoting health care as our first stop in the medical system and in the larger additions of services there, including the health care program. with increased bioavailability to experts and increased services. I think it is very important that services and management can be improved by making better use of the knowledge and experience of the many professions. The 2022 financial program provides three measurable goals that I consider to be the focus of the future. I'm glad you're here. I'd like to have the highest. Healthcare Minister only discuss these objectives and their impact on the structure of the health system here in Iceland. These objectives, with the permission of the president, are in regard to health care: 1st More efficient services for patients who seek medical care. 2. Improved patient bioavailability into a broad range of mental - health services regardless of the economy or habitat. 3. Increased education and support for patients in life - style and life - style related diseases I'd be especially grateful if it was the highest. A minister spoke as if during a two - minute conversation especially about the matter of mental health, which he introduced only, since this has been a source of criticism. Councilmen lack numbers related to financial contributions. For my part it is more important at this stage, very important, to see that here are actions that are practical and that are the head of the welfare committee, I take part in the responsibility for reasoning and to fight for more capital. Mental illness is a major reason for the incidence of disability, as we discussed, and it costs society a lot of drugs, medical expenses, and lost hours of work. But I would like to hear a little more about what this is like because I'm personally interested in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u312	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's a pleasure to hear how many go. Senators are thinking about mental health, a delightful development. Mental health has often been a shy affair in Icelandic society. During the past few years, it has completely changed. It is a pleasure, not only because it adds pressure on us as a means of improving our case, doing better in the ministry, but also because it reduces the social isolation of those who have a mental health problem and should make it easier for them to seek a ministry and hopefully to have information to seek the right ministry. I agree with what. A senator stressing the first phase of health care and the structure of health care services and the availability of health care in general but especially for mental health care, and then increasing the education related to life - style and life - style related diseases. Many would like to mean that in some way a life - style and modern society could contribute to a mental - health problem. So I think it's very important that we offer up increased service, increase access, and that this includes. A cumulative behavioural treatment is provided. We have recent figures that show that we use more than 100% more antipsychotic drugs than neighboring nations. While antipsychotics are important and beneficial when appropriate, these are abnormal numbers and may indicate a lack of others and better options. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u313	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and look forward to starting this work. Next time I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Health to have a conversation about nursing and living space. Not long ago, we got laid. A well-being committee presentation from the Ministry on the seminary. I see in the financial program that very ambitious goals can be found, that are performing a functioning and health service and minimising the need to stay at an institution, increase in nurses, and improving nursing equipment in line with the quality of the Ministry. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to these criteria. Here, as in many other cases that belong to us at times. The welfare committee is dealing with subjects with such complexities or rather with challenges in which there are blurred responsibilities between state and rural society that have reduced efficiency in services and practical use of funds. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain to me just how much growth will be in nurses and how he can predict the best way to work on this discussion and cooperation with rural society in order to meet challenges and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of this important topic. Also, if there's any time, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers must present abbreviated delay period for a rehabilitation period. Earlier tonight, I had a conversation with the highest. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on how the elderly will be added to the pension system and social security. I believe this is a group of lawsuits that are holding hands. A key factor in improving the quality of life of the elderly is in the bright future. Part of it is to ensure access to nurses that reduces the need for elderly patients to stay in emergency hospitals with a conditional problem for the individual and the overall system. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to hear what is expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u314	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for many good questions. First, we work according to a mental - health program adopted at the Council of 2016 and its emphasis but are working better, or rather said to implement that plan faster than expected. With regard to nursing, the criteria are common. A senator asked about a so-called RAI assessment that evaluated the individual's abilities and the need for service. This assessment, in turn, controls access to the ministry and is also used as a basis for an annual cost assessment when it comes to the distribution to nursing homes. It is the office of a surgeon who sets the criteria for a situation, etc. Hv. A senator asks for a waiting period after rehabilitation. The answer is that it will be reduced. Rehabilitation is very important, not just for the elderly, but for others who need it. Improving the rehabilitation process and shortening the waiting list will make it easier to make the individual not only independent but also to get to work, etc. Regarding the increase in nursing mothers, it is expected to be almost 300 spaces over the period, and the increase in the daytime is about 170 over the period, if I recall correctly. And, yes, cooperation with the rural communities in this whole structure will be considered very important for the two stages to work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u315	A respectable president. I don't know what they were talking about, chief. Ministers, like what? paritaprevir Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir, who ended up wrestling with brothers. And who won? As usual, Sigtryggur won. Not the people of the country who believed in the fact that these groups were going to improve health care, make significant improvements, that it would be reversed. No, there must be a better time to wait for the human government to arrive. I wish to the highest. A health minister is happy with the plans to build 292 new nurses. All of them are needed in the capital area. It warms your heart. But that is short - lived because I don't understand how to operate this nursing room. It's supposed to be a total of 5 billion medical services. The 5 billion are likely to last for a year and a half. There will be a growing number of day - to - day resorts, which are very effective resources, and rehabilitaters, which will be used to reimburse institutions for the elderly throughout the country, which will be available to each member of the security standards and building regulations. It's gonna cost billions. At the end of the bargain, we are dealing with an unfavourable nursing home right now. That's a worry. It's just a ticking time bomb. Then we have the hospital service between 2017 and 2018, and we're not supposed to do anything about it. We cannot, a respectable president, place it on the heads of a land hospital and in other health institutions to have to do with their hairs in the public squares and in the media and here in the Generalist halls to make sure that the institutions do not have a catapult. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u316	Madam President. I want to agree with that with what. Brjánsson One of the greatest challenges we face over the years in health care. With the growth of the elderly, with the aging of the people, this probably will be one of the greatest challenges for decades. The good news is that at the same time as in just the last five years, which I want to say is as long as this financial plan is, there have been big changes in our ability to provide both services and cures, to improve the quality of life of individuals. Although we look only to the next five years, we look at a little vaguely. The new nurse 292, the new day space, is funded in the budget, but it should be stated that they are adding, they are being built up throughout the season. They will not all be in use at the same time and will not all be in business for the whole time period. For hospital service, it is not right to add anything else. It is true that in 2018, you would have liked to have more improvements, but the basis based on budgets for 2017 and it required neither this government nor anyone else, for the fact that a transnational Council without a clear majority returned 10% more from the previous year to budgets for the medical services, including hospital services. In addition, we will be in the financial program for 2018 and will continue into the period. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u317	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. I believe that they still lack enough money to run this facility, even though they're falling in all this period. That may cost less than 3 billion dollars. A year to run 292 spaces, if I calculate correctly. But that's the way it is. Of course, I want to celebrate, and we all do so in our hearts, from the heart's sincerity of a new university hospital, and from the heart that it is a gold guarantee that it will come to pass. But more is needed. The hospitals are needed in the South, on Selephoss, in the West, in Stykkisolmi. From the first day on, there will be increased efficiency in the work, both professional and business, if we are able to correct it. The same is true of Aranesp. Health care has been fought on the banks, and it is still abject. I hope that the promises will go right after their advantage, but it's not easy to see. The new payment system will go into effect on May 1. There are many burdensome factors still outside, i.e. The dental services. When the last agreement was made with experts in 2008, it was supposed to cover up to 80% of the cost; now, the TR subsidies probably cover about 23%, as clients tell me. It's a problem. We offered higher and better at our reception, we offered and suggested we go down to 35 points. K. which is now up to twice the amount, up to 70 levels. K. [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. Is it not possible for a health minister to go lower?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u318	Madam President. Thank you. A senator who traveled abroad. I'll make sure of what. The senator still plans for the medical home to be cared for the way they are. That's what the plan assumes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u319	Are they the same as they are?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u320	They are funded in financial programs as they are estimated to be. Thank you. A senator for the comment. You're right. paritaprevir Guðjón's servants of S. Brjánsson point out the importance of building health care. That is a key goal in the budget. I have to reiterate what I've said in reply to another what I've said. Senators tonight, the system is expected to take over now May 1. It is funded for 2017, and it is not expected to change. The amount, the ceilings for individuals, was the same as presented to a welfare committee before the New Year's Eve. Only in extreme circumstances can the roof of an adult be expected to be more than 50 of you. K. above the year and above the 33 C.E. K. for children, older people, or disability. The only exceptions, possibly, because this is a very complex application with acquired discounts, are for people who are completely new and raw into the system in great service. I'll state that the system export was adopted transversely during the last term. We are in this financial programme to take it into force now 2017 and thus put stress on it, but we also plan to have the experience of it before we continue to reduce the cost of individual exposure. Then we need to look to even the future. A dental service, like a dog. A senator pointed out. [[The president calls.]] I also say psychiatric services, et cetera. But I felt irresponsible about making it available now before we have a better experience from the carts as they're taking over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u321	Madam President. First, I must say that I miss not seeing the chairman of the legal committee today. Here's only one agent from the budget board of the greater part. I'm very sorry that they're not here and listen today as we have today in my section, though. We are not just dealing with better business and financial fairs, we are dealing with people in the community, and how we share the government's resources for common consumption. In recent years, tax increases have weakened the government's revenues and have reduced the hold on the government's financial affairs to a greater degree. This means that the state's income institutions are not enough to finance the expenses needed for building wood and well - being, despite the stimulus. Six individuals now have as much as half of the human family does. The least to be remembered and to gather upon the hands of the few who have most. The financial agenda we deal with here will not bring money to those who have more to strengthen their combined consumption and plans for greater personalization and care for what is to come. The observance presented here will cause the management of the medical institutions to remain on the flank. The plan for the growth of nursing mothers up until 2020 is only half of the estimated need for new living space to 2020. SAk is still behind us, the Akureyri Hospital, until the end of this program, when the project is scheduled to begin. Despite a long period of economic growth, the minister says that no more money can be put in the middle of the programme period to this important group of subjects, yet he is groping in the world motto when the health minister says he has never done so well. In line with the changes made in the rights of the pensioners until the year 2019, there are no changes to the social security system. This means that disability will continue to exist in complex systems and with a dollar in return to a dollar of impairment, which is very damaging to the population at the most. The birth worm is to be raised in three stages by 100,000, from 500 to 600 thousand. It may be wise to look for ways to extend it for a year, making sure that everyone has at least 300 thousand. Finally, the user - controlled personal assistance is to be legalized, but unfortunately this is done in a conflict with rural society, as indicated by the forward bill of Social Affairs, where parties identify about hundreds of millions. Everything is on the same book as dealing with societies. The financial policy arrangement to deal with the gray areas was to be cut down and appeared to us here. The university is far from achieving the standards of OECD and the northern countries. The colleges are cut down by 1,700 million over the period, and promises are betrayed that the funds that fell to the three - year shorter school would remain in the high - school system. What about the University of Art, a health threat? Is he expected to be in a long - term home? I can't see that. The environmental issues, the climate, the issues, the issues, the get a billion next year, then turn up a little bit in 2020. A group of paintings that should be in front of us gets a bad ride here. Despite new decisions, contributions during the period decrease by less than 400 million. The Court's office, which is to be a new, independent administrative agency and is to handle a large task, is not going to get the money, but, as stated on page 18. 116 with President's permission: The range of budgetary budgets is not sufficient to finance these programmes. The law has had to deal with an amazing number of projects, including some of them. due to increased tourism, which calls for increased border guard and high-report control: Internet crime, sex crime, and domestic violence are stressed, but we still see in the news that pedophiles are free of charge because police have not had resources and resources. Finally, it is hard to see that they and our ships can be mended properly, as shown on page 20. 181 The aim is to support, in part, the quality of the quality of the budget in order to cope with decreased income from foreign activities. By permission of the President: Sadly, though, there is little room for the ever - growing crews on helicopters and watch ships. Is the prison case a treasure? I don't know, and I can't read it out of this financial program. It's been getting old in the last few years. According to the plan, 550 people are being punished. Business labor was recognized in this fall, but as shown on page 6 of this magazine. In 193, unless older persons are resolved and funding increases, the balance of services is not balanced. A collection of 266 million peaks. Otherwise, if this is not documented, there will be a significant reduction in the office's activities in the form of a reduction in the position of payment and staff. This means reducing the number of public jobs, including in the country. If the information should only be used, it is 53 employees. The State Department has received a cut-off list. I have to ask you, how far is the government going to go? Transport and communications will receive 5 billion a year, confirming that the government of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Bright Future will not succeed in campaigning for the construction of the road system. At sea and land, the public transportation is nearly 250 million years old to straighten out the cow. I don't see that they're expected in this program. Despite laws saying that countries should participate in seafront building, the marshes and airports have been completely distracted. Even the last government could not complete the airport in Akureyri despite a given pile of materials. We are now being informed that some airports will be shut down. This year, for example. It's just a small amount of money in the airport business, but it's nothing for maintenance. For the next three years, 450 million light - optic cables are used. We must maintain that the cost of rural society and the population is enormous, and that was not at the outset. The number of connections is still spoken of, not to establish connections to the small remote settlements. There is a reduction in the research committee of transport accidents where there is no other way around the seminary, as financial resources were not put in place. Is it possible that this committee should have a special research and action plan? Let us consider that. The secretary said that the next step would include a seven - year strategy and will be interesting to see if there will be no significant increase in parish budgets, since, according to the 2017 budget, unchanged budget is expected for the next five years. One strip refers to bringing tasks closer to the locals, but the next is a small amount of money. In terms of increase of cost taxes in tourism it is very important that the analysis of how this applies to the article is made, especially in the scattered areas where tourism is of great importance but is not yet a complete wound article. Clearly, some form of countermove action has to come about. The growth of the article in the target areas cannot be determined solely. We have a so - called cold area, so to speak, but the employment that tourism produces is of utmost importance when it comes to living people. There is no such thing as housing issues in the policy of the government. Despite the fact that the number of apartments mentioned earlier needed for the next few years is not going to be enough. Growth improvements decline substantially from 2020 to real value. The independent group government, Action and Bear's Future, according to the financial programme, will protect 0.26% of the staked national incomes for development every year, but as a review of international commitments to comply with the UN's goal that industrialized countries will provide 0.7% of the staked national income for development. There is no need for Iceland to meet these goals for the next five years, as the North countries have been doing for years. It is the shame of the government parties to suggest such in an economic period. There are reports of release of a third of the government's workers, including teachers, the Union of Colleges and Iceland's Medical Association. The financial minister's message is that there is only a limited amount of pay available, and in the plan, only a 1.5% of financial gain criteria are expected. I don't think it's very unlikely that these people will accept such a trivial thing. Finally, in spite of declarations to strengthen the council and the members of the council that are in great need, the Council is put together, especially now that we deal with the introduction of the law on public finances. Madam President. Left greens stand for freedom, the freedom to educate, the use of health care, and the same opportunity rather than a simple question to market interests. We do not want freedom centered on the fact that social possessions such as banks are placed in the hands of few and healings of private value and the loss of government wealth. Left green: An equalizing of well - being society, worth of value, and a fair tax system. To that end, those who have the highest pay have to pay more to society than those with less, but not as when rich people can assume that the right government is holding them in line. It has to be said that the paper we're dealing with today, this five-year plan of the right government, is unacceptable. Surely, then, our most important assignment, along with our people, must be to put this government away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u322	A respectable president. It's a good thing I didn't go on the list like that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir went to. But I have a little different vision this time. For the second time, public financial laws are being tried. For the second time, it is unusual. There was only a small amount of time spent working on financial policy, on which financial programs are to be based. Thus, the budget is not the same as it should be in view of the treatment of Congress, the depth of a discussion that we should get for a long process and so on. We are not now on our way to the introduction of a law on government funds, and we will see that the debate on the financial agenda should be comparable to the discussion on budgets as it once was. In order for that discussion to work properly and be as accurate as it needs to be, the plan needs to be performed sooner, preferably at the beginning of the year, or at the spring council. Just as budgets are submitted at the beginning of the fall. In his talk earlier today, the prime minister arranged for public financial legislation. Hv. Congress officials who opposed the minister were concerned about the Constitution of the council's duties, the government's financial matters. The concern is that there are too many financial decisions for a minister without the presence of the council. In the past, each member of the budget was prepared to finance the budget. The Council's decision - making authority is now tied to issues and issues. No further violation of government law is expected. However, according to the Constitution, the matter cannot be understood in any way except that the council has all the financial resources to say. The difference between the previous and present arrangement is that Congress officials cannot vote for individual financial resources, not on budgets to individual high schools, e.g. or health care, as they used to do. The budget of last December knew members of Congress, for example. Not quite how to make changes. Now, as I know many other senators, I am still learning the new process. What significance, e.g. The financial plan, if the Minister says, like the Supreme Minister. Minister of innovation earlier today, in times of need. A minister was asked about the lack of donations for innovation, by permission of a president: ▪ I am eager to put these matters on schedule and will do so. I'm pointing out that this financial plan is not the budget, of course. The problem with this kind of compromise is that if these changes occur as high as possible. A minister needs to discuss the reasons for the topic field, not just the priorities in the field. An increase in money in the topic area means a different priority than that of us in this program. But this is exactly what I'm missing in this process, which I'm learning better as I get older. This is so that we do not base on experience when it comes to political treatment of public financial laws. We're just learning it all over and over again. So I'm going to suggest a certain idea of how this process should be in relation to what I've learned about this subject. At first, it's financial policy. It needs to contain everything specified. It's like she's now missing a lot of things, but everything needs to be there. And it is absolutely essential that there be an idea of priorities for the years of policy development. For example, there may be something like this: During the first part of the season, a special attention will be given to the structure of the health - care system, and in the latter part the emphasis will be on building up the college campus. Just general ideas about priorities, so when a financial plan comes up, you can see: Yes, it was said in policy that your priorities would be in the health system, and that's the highest level you see between the years in the plan, okay? The budget then publishes precise numbers on the topic areas, as we will discuss them today. We will see the very priorities of economicism reflected. In addition, financial programs produce key projects in the topic areas. The discussion, then, must be about whether the amount of the material field is sufficient for the expected task, that it remains within the budget. Just as we discuss the priorities of policy-making, we will discuss priorities with the projects and the topic groups in financial programmes, i.e. We have a precise implementation of grammatical fields and general ideas on the priorities of grammatical classes. Finally, we came to the sheep. In this regard, the debate is about the projects set out in a financial programme and how they are organized to that class, the precise distribution of the amount, the priorities of the issues set out in the policy. However, and here is the important thing, if contributions to the sector are clearly changing, I believe that the current financial agenda needs to be changed. The reason is that a new financial review of the Council needs to be about its effect on the baselines and on the like. But the main question is, How should the council influence their priorities and provide funding for tasks that are not set out in financial matters? Money policy, financial planning, and financial laws come to the council in such a way that it is actually only a presentation of how the Ministry wants the results. The Congress does not see the tasks the Ministry rejected or how they set the priorities for a particular project lower, lower or low enough for it not to appear in financial terms. Obviously, the council must be allowed to see all the evidence and to explain why one option was chosen above another. Only in this way can the Council choose what privileges will be added if financial priorities are otherwise set in the topic category or what projects will be replaced. Change proposals should therefore preferably be first in the financial programme if there is evidence to be a change in the extent of the topic matter, so into financial terms if there are changes in the scope of the issues to which the report shows how their priorities should be used. To put it this way: If the changes are high, don't turn the amount of resources into budgets without changing financial plans. This process supports your baseline levels of firmness, transparency, and stability, and keeps you from working so that you cannot just set priorities and new financial projects. Finally, I would like to repeat my review of this financial program. It is made clear that the financial agenda is about debt. Everything else is actually going to be left over. It specifically states that all business ventures go into subsidies, one being left over. The priority order of the rest is relative to the general reserve, it is most added, perhaps because it starts at zero, then drugs, medical products and health services outside hospitals, employment markets, unemployment, disability, and the affairs of disabled people. At the bottom of the government's priorities are such grammatical fields, such as research and innovation, energy, environment and school levels all. The financial debt - related debt spending plan, the monopolitan income, the occasional funds are used in subsidies. I don't remember that campaign, but I do remember some of the promises that come to pass. Now I would like to mention the so - called priority for health matters that have been often discussed. The increase is 16 billion in a five - year financial program, but the total increase is 9% over the period of time. Taking into account all the other health - care media, extramarital health care, medical products and medical products, and etc., there is a 17% increase over a five-year period. It is the same proportion increase as in the five-year periods of 2004-2008. It's priority, really, what we've always done, outside of the collapse of the data that I have. I don't see it as priorities, but as usual. This is gonna be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u323	V.E.G. President. It is true to mention, since it was mentioned tonight, that I can assure the Senate that the chairman of the legal committee watched the discussion very carefully and is still watching it; unfortunately, he just had to be somewhere else. There is a turning point in making financial plans for 20181⁄2022. This is the first financial program that can be said to be established under the new laws on public finances. This, too, is the first financial program proposed after the ban. True, not all of us have experienced the result of the release. We're in a lot of economic growth, in a run-in. One of the reasons for financial planning is the continuing economic growth, the longest we've known. Investment and export lead to economic growth. Strong economic growth was 7.2% last year. What is historical is that there is no anticipated shock or strong setback on the basis of the plan. In financial policy and in the financial strategy we deal with here, we are seeking an Icelandic economic smooth landing. The national dweller's outer position is strong. We have more possessions abroad than we owe. In fact, there has been an historic increase in financial resources in this country. Unemployment is negligible, and professional activities have never been asked more. The long-term lack of work is almost gone. A few years ago, we began to assume that long - term unworkers would become active. Happily, that discussion has not come true. The greatest challenges lie with money and gangs, labour markets, dress management development, housing development, tourism, and the aging of the people. Such situations also create tension in the economy. These are all positive factors that are both joyful and enjoyable. Thus, a growing financial agenda is not simple, dealing with economic problems. At the same time, overcrowding the accumulated needs of many of the factors that have had to be given in recent years. Implementing financial programmes is also the fact that the state's budget pays large interest payments, as well as debt is a priority. It limits the fact that many factors called for building up and increasing donations for management cannot be performed more rapidly. When it comes to a financial program, it is clear that, at the end of it, there will be much room for financial affairs. Following this project, financial and financial agendas have combined that the amount of money to reduce debt and payment on interest is reduced and there is a tremendous amount of space created to leap up many aspects of our community. Although it is not the time to talk long enough about what we can do after the time of this strategy, it is clear that this is a great opportunity. Yet, it is as if everything that is prophesied will be carried out at the end of the next year by the Council for hundreds of millions of dollars. On that basis, I believe that an overall review of tax stocks and the use of the tax system for economic management and income balances will be revised. Especially, then, how economic management further facilitates communities' position, that public services in the country's settlements, and the expansion of their services will be in order to promote and establish stability. I want to draw special attention to other government debts, which are pension bonds. The main direct commitment of the state's funds is pension commitment. The policy shows that there are some 600 billion unfinished pension bonds. It is expected that five billion people will pay on commitments each year in 2017/2022. In addition, it will be determined whether irregular revenues will be devoted to paying more quickly down commitments. Although such a course is important, it is even more valuable to meet up with the rise to the next year. The majority of the legal committee's assessment of financial policy was considered the need to engage in transport, ports, airports, and other transport projects. I can inform you that I would have liked to take a more ambitious approach to the country's transportation. Yes, it is now that the transport program adopted in mid - October is not fully financed in this financial program. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the plan allows for the budget to become more than 20 billion more than a previous plan, where the increase approved in December is being established. Does this mean that there was a giving up on the task of reaching out for more money to fix ports, airports, and roads? No. I want to reiterate my opinion that we can and should allow ourselves to think of new ways of financing projects. The budget includes many important tasks to be carried out. Let us mention the purchase of three rescue helicopters. It is a big step for us as a nation to be able to buy three new helicopters. I'd like to say there's a big breakthrough here at the Council. The plan of the budget committee is to activate all the topic committees of the Parliament in a reviewing financial agenda. A financial committee will expect, at their meeting tomorrow, following this discussion, to refer the matter to the Committee of the Council to discuss specific issues. Thus, each committee is moved to give attention to policies, goals, and actions in its own area. Language groups overlap to some extent between committees. It will be tried to fail. The journey this spring is a formative process. This will lead to all committees of the Parliament's budget. They will be provided with a minister for discussions and to give the financial committee their opinion and the indication of change, if thought necessary. In the spring, a financial committee will now provide community members, whose communities play a key role in public financial matters, an opportunity to come to the Committee with reviews. A financial committee considers it to be in no way a tightening or generally reducing the formative of the state's success. One of the objectives of public financial law is to provide a comprehensive policy in public finance. In order to accomplish this, the establishment of a bill for financial gain has been changed to develop a five-year financial policy that will be followed by an annual five-year financial programme. The budget is based on financial management, and it is the aim of the above - mentioned procedure to help the General evaluate the government's policy in economic terms. It will also be easier for the Council to evaluate the government policy, as it is established, according to the topic areas and then the seminaries. The plan is to increase the emphasis on general political policies, while less emphasis is being made on the General on the business and activities of the state or the small financial arrangements. (b) What has been the result of the recent legal action of the Council, and what has resulted from this? But these responsibilities have now been increasingly laid upon individual ministers with a reference to their responsibility. Is this emphasis in harmony with the aim of strengthening the natural government of the Generals and the implementation of budgetary oversight? By means of the direct and regular reporting of all Ministers to the budgetary committee, which is the Committee of the Parliament that handles financial matters, it is guaranteed that the Council has increased the opportunity to monitor the implementation of budgets as they develop within the budget to support themselves both ahead and more fully on the factors affecting the longer - term financial policy. In view of what we've got here, the Allied Guard is one of the basics of the law. A budget will care for this on behalf of the Generals. In this regard, it should be noted that the Ministry, its agencies, and its budgetaries are not normal; they are the only ones who care for themselves. An external party, in this case of the General Assembly, is necessary to provide government resources and require explanations of both favorable and inefficient abnormalities, improvements when improvement is needed, quality and other items expected by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u324	V.E.G. President. It's almost the end of the 1st. with regard to financial plans for the next five years. In this discussion, many of us have commented on the importance of this matter, which it truly is. Then I must say that I would have chosen in the light of the importance of the highest. The minister of finance would have been here all day, paying close attention, as well. Prime Minister. Hv. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson explained the absence. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Board of Shepherds, who, in the truth, I began to marvel at her. We also know that the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Also, the minister of justice has not been able to be with us today. That's not good enough. I have to criticize it because we're doing something new, a new methodology for public finances. That procedure demands that all of us work together, that all ministers participate in the discussion, and that all committees are doing their work accordingly. I just don't feel like it any good to be so out of line when the discussion takes place in a Senate Hall. At the same time, we're doing this for the first time, and I want to let people enjoy the doubt, but next time it's got to be better. The same applies to the financial structure, in a way that is critical. A few have mentioned it here today, and this is a friendly criticism, that when you review the target tables, the expense columns are always empty. I think it's due to a lack of time, so I expect it to be pulled back next year. As I have said before, I find this exciting tool to work with, this thought of policy and long - term views of the government's finances. I think this is a very responsible way to increase the discipline of the government and keep the boxes in place according to the economic policy. I wondered about the five-year time limit we're considering now; at least we should think about it for a long time, when we've had some practice, if it wasn't right to extend that time, we're talking about a long-term plan, five years is no super long time when you're working on policy. This discussion here today has been most enjoyable. It's a fun form of Congress that members of Congress can come to a short talk, get immediate feedback from counsellors, and then go back, very fun shapes. But I also wondered, " Should I not go more far? ' Last night, I thought the discussion was the best. Secretary of finance, in fact, deeper and better. Still, she was organized in that there were at most one or two members of each class who went to the discussion so that it became very calm and well organized, we reached a certain depth there. I say for my part that today's discussion at the expense of fun activities was a very smooth surface. We didn't have enough time to go a little deeper into things, I think we could all benefit from it, both ministers and members of Congress, to get it. I would like to be less brief in some of the areas that have been discussed today, which I still worry about. Sadly, even though the discussion was enjoyable, we did not find much conclusions to be drawn. For example, I'm dealing with the environment. They do not make enough money in spite of the nearly a billion added ones now, especially in view of the fact that many projects already started in the Ministry, big and important, and very important projects, and other projects are already on the move. I'm worried about this. Another thing I'd like to mention is the section of Public Security. There's a chance to buy new helicopters, which I'm sure celebrate, for the National Guard. However, a financial program shows that marine safety cannot be improved by guardship. On page 18. 177 says, with president's permission: ▪ To shorten the response time to 24 hours. The number of ships to use and crew needs to be increased, but there is no room for that in the budget of 2018,2022. It'd be fine if it was the highest. A minister might come in later if he has time. It's not something else about this special aircraft that the National Guard has to do with foreign projects to finance the maintenance and monitoring of helicopters and airplanes and airplanes. On page 18. 178 says, with President's permission: Thus, in the coming years, it will be a challenge for the Agency to maintain an adequate level of service during observation, search, and rescue. - but the projects that the plane has been doing abroad for a few years will probably not be there. I have to ask you, what does this mean? Won't the National Guard be able to perform legal tasks according to an existing financial programme? I felt that I could not find answers to that question today during the discussion. It's not the prison business. I came into them today, and I didn't get any answers. While there is a considerable increase in this material area, there is a wide pot that is broken. This is not specifically explained in the Senate, not in a konscret. Social services and electronic surveillance and a lot of things to lose, but when you look at the tablet for a waiting period to be handed over, that time has been on for a lot of years each year. As you examine the court section, the number of cases is growing and evolution is just above, so it must continue. You wonder about the situation in this regard, both in courts and in prison cases. The two may hold on a little, but obviously they don't have enough focus on the financial agenda. Health - me and the rest of the advance workers have criticized the tremendous financial demand, but it is only 0.5% in health matters that are fine. Of course, a person is concerned that the increase in health care is going primarily to the construction of a new land hospital, which I am glad to be about to rise, even if I had wanted him to be anywhere else than on the Ringway, but this is just good for this land hospital. I didn't feel that I could get enough explanation for the continuation of the health care system, which we all agree on is a complete foundation in our health - care system, but it needs to be strong support; we need to be able to rely on national health care. I also worry about the funding of nurses - why. paritaprevir In his speech here and in the local hospital service, Guðjón the son of Brjánsson was very careful. I'm running out of time, chief. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u326	- Wow, that's going to be okay. Then I'll have to get to the bottom of my story. I was just about to come into college. The colleges are naturally badly left out in the cold. The same applies to the university. I was going to read here a resolution published by the University of Iceland on a government budget, that is very harsh and critical of an existing financial program. I agree with that conclusion of the university. The art school - we've talked about it in this hall many times. I cannot see that he is responding to his position in this financial program. My conclusion is that there are a lot of beautiful goals in this Senate document, all sorts of pills, and finesse, but the hold is too much. Keeping up on 2% of the majority of them is way too much. [[The president calls.]] Me and the laymen would've wanted to go another way. We would have wanted to pick up new taxes and reduce the resources to build the necessary infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u327	Madam President. There will be a long discussion over a two - day discussion of a five - year financial program. Although the discussion is being discussed for a long time in this chamber, of course it is not long in the context that this is a five - year appointment of lines in the financial affairs of the State. This is the first time a new government puts up a plan of this kind, where the lines are set out in financial terms. New laws on public finances are a major change in government management. The fact that we have set up rules and laws to plan five years into the future - where national forecasting is assessed, the position most likely in the economic environment, the most likely position in the management programme and in the development of various budgets - is discipline that we Icelands have sorely lacked over the years. If there's something we've all learned over and over again, we who've been tracking or just living in it, it's that sad inability to look for longer. Perhaps it is in part because of the rise of the Icelandic world, the pursuit of the sea, and the hardy country, but the thought that it was somehow red; and that it can be saved in before it rains, has marked the U.S. economy all too much and has set in motion all kinds of parties in which we have rejoiced and run out with joy and shame when there is no such well - being or shock. Again and again they all say, 'I didn't expect this to happen.' I wanted to, before they continue to celebrate the introduction of new practices. They're not my thanks, they're not even due to this government, they're not even due to this council. It is in common with the efforts of Icelandic politicians to adopt better practice, and I'm glad to be able to work with them. I told my colleagues during the days at the Department of Health at the Ministry of green, but I didn't say that January 11 is probably the worst time in the year to start a new government, especially in the light of new laws on public finance, because of working and preparing for a five-year financial program and this plan should be far along on January 11. In addition, the plan should be based on relatively new financial laws established by the same government at the end of the previous year. It has still been amazing to be a part of the work of preparing these financial programs, not only in the politics but also with officials of the Board of Government, with officials of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as officials, economists and experts in all the faunas, in the institutions of professionals. Much work has been done until late into the night, in councils all over the country and in institutions across the country. It is the basis for this financial program. There's a big misunderstanding that we government ministers have been sitting somewhere and writing all of this up because on the basis of it, public finances are a very permanent world. The majority of public spending is quite fixed size. It is important, and it is political. And the political priorities of this government are made clear in this financial program, not only that this is in line with economic stability, working with the maintenance of the years now, but also the building up for the future by an effective reduction in public debt, etc., but also a strong priority in the priorities of the issues of high priority to others; the priorities for health and other welfare are prominent in this financial programme. This does not change the fact that a large proportion of expenses in all categories are quite given, i.e. We continue to carry out the ministry that is available and try to improve it as far as possible and with priorities. The good news is that during the last weeks of the last few weeks, before a government was formed, it was well established that expenses could be made well for 2017. It has been shown in the discussion that cost of budget 2017 increases by 8.5% over the line since the previous year, and when it comes to my highest-level case damage, health issues, about just less than 10% between years. What may be the big news in the budget, despite the need for increased expansion and the response to the expansion of Icelandic economic conditions, is that it is successful to defend this much increase in 2017 and to add, although it is true that you would have wanted to see the improvement in the first year being greater. We all know the projects are down. They're very important. Of course, you always want to do better. I believe that in this financial program, the average approach between responsible economic management and long - term thinking is very careful, but also that the place is a guard for the most important service, for the welfare matters, for health matters, and for the development of structures; although this structure might be more rapid, it is clear and strong. I can't complete this speech any other way than to celebrate our success in holding in and keeping a lamp in the construction of a new hospital. I cannot stop talking about how important this project is, how long it has been waiting, and how well it is done, not only with the ability to serve but also with the ability to organize our health care and to provide good health care professionals, which is both good for the job but also completely necessary for recent management of the health system. Icelanders are not the only people in the world who are having problems with expectations for the health system, expectations of health costs, expectations of health care. Iceland is not the only nation that is growing older, where the elderly grow older, and their expectations for better service and better living conditions grow faster than their ability to increase expenses. But we see a steady increase in the financial period in health care, and I especially welcome it. I see my time is running out. I had promised the highest. President I wouldn't use the whole time to shorten the night, but I'd like to thank you for a very pleasant discussion. I agree with someone else. The delegates to this arrangement, which was able to establish, with a longer conversation yesterday than a shorter discussion and a sharper line of conversation with a professional minister today, have been very helpful, and I think we should imitate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-57.u328	Madam President. This is where they spoke. Health Minister for public finance to be a permanent world. No, that's a big misunderstanding. First the world came into existence, then the men and the human life. Money is what adapts to it. It is the human life that determines what financial matters should be. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir spoke of this discussion as being more superficial, lacking depth. What's deep? Is it deep to point out individual teams in the budget and discuss if there are 3 K's? 5K To the jury? No, it's been a nice talk today. A number of senators have learned and spoken in general about politics on the broad platform. That's what we're supposed to be doing. paritaprevir In his talk by Njáll Friðbertsson, it was a turning point in the history of the Council, that general political policy would now begin with a new work ethic. It would be better if it were. I think this breakthrough is something that doesn't end tonight. That's exactly what I think this big discussion is NjállTrausti A senator was likely talking about the need to take place, and it is about the kind of community we are going to build. You see, we're standing on the edge of a knife now. We can fall on either side of the grieving. We may become wealthy or it can continue to be an active democracy in which the people govern. Unfortunately, Madam President, I feel as if government policy will push us toward a society where money may take over even more. And of whom? From the common people, and especially from the lowly ones. There's been some significant developments today. V.E.G. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's minister spoke of this financial program being carried out under much time pressure, there are reasons why people have not had much time to think about things. Is that acceptable? Is this acceptable eight years after a whole society of Icelandic people suffered a collapse in which even middle - incomers fought and still do not see their way through it? V.E.G. The social minister of Þorsteinn Víglundsson also said that in the collapse, they had the weakest lost. If this wasn't a constant economy, they'd lose again. Yet, there is going to be an approved financial and financial programme that requires that the economy continue to swell, indefinitely, allowing space to be allowed to attack the necessary structure of health systems, education systems, and infrastructure. We know that this is not the way the economy behaves. Here's the mood swings, and then we go down to the black dollars in between. This rule will make it a rule that, under such circumstances, is confined to the snare, and there is no room for man. Where, then, will they be carrying down? Where, then, will it be? So, what kind of weapons do they have in their cage? Yes, it is the cutting knife that will take care of health, education, welfare, housing, and the worst. You're absolutely right at the highest. But he admitted that if the Þorsteinn were to Víglundsson, the rule had to be reviewed. Then I ask, "Why are men so bold? " Why, then, do humans have this rule? Why don't they step in and tell you that this isn't a video store, a video store, they're running a community. Society is completely different from commercialism. People are born into the community by sharing in the shares, by sharing in the shares at the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The health minister was going to activate the market law in order to obtain the income we would need to build up the wood but now have left behind. I'm not gonna tell you why. I'm not going to argue that it was a Minister's chair or a government seat or to try to keep its classes alive, but at least they've given it all away. Before elections, however, all groups at the General Assembly spoke of the need to deal with health - care problems, education systems, failing roads. But now it's time to sail safely for the greatest economy in history in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson dared to say that in this large, economic, economic, we had to be careful, we couldn't care for the educational system, we couldn't build up for the future, we couldn't afford to give in the health system, and we could have access to it. And surely this would be important, as he said, and he would have liked to make up for transportation and infrastructure, just couldn't be done, we had to be careful. What kind of message is that? When should we be able to build up our community if it is not now when there is plenty of money here? They may not be in the government box right now, but they're waiting at the highest level. Minister on the other side of the corner. We've got strong-tempered members who can use our resources for a shamefully low-sized amount, like the highest. The secretary of finance said in the campaign north of Akureyri, I think the fishing fees are only doubled where salmon and trout fishermen pay for river rights. This cannot be counted as high. Here are hundreds of millions and billions of people. No mention is made of a capital tax taken from that person. There should be no spending taxes and high income taxes should not be placed. I think there was Bjartur í Sumarhús Houses that said: "You can keep me away from the fact that freedom is worth more than the town air altitude. Thus, the Independence Party has been able to scare people for decades, that freedom is more important, independence, even though it results in a curse to all who live at home. Iceland's best investment is a fair tax system and a sharing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
