ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Internal Affairs requesting every request to provide a written answer for the application of this request. 337, for an outside-crowded song, of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u2	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council to make it possible to complete the planned discussion. It is a meeting arrangement for a discussion of the second part of the program, a financial plan, which will be both today and tomorrow, Thursday. Today, there will be a general debate over the financial agenda followed by the development of financial and economic ministers and tomorrow, Thursday, a discussion on the issues of individual Ministers will be conducted. The financial and economic minister has up to 15 minutes to the start, and the senators have ten minutes each. Butts are allowed. Tomorrow, Prime Ministers will be participating in the discussion. The detailed arrangements for this discussion will be announced in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u3	Madam President. Next year, the minimum wage goes up to 300 points. K. a month, dressbacks obtained by significant strict adherence in the last boxing ceremony. Those who accept a disability pay receive a value of between 250 and280. K. per month. The income they have from other sources, e.g. from pension funds, cutting them pay so that they never get paid much by 300 yards. K. It's famous. Of course, when we examine the official consumption criteria of the Ministry of Health, whites show that people with children need more than these 300 counts. K. to survive in the community. Here, health care costs more than in neighboring countries. Patients have a higher degree of support. Education is not free of charge, whether we are looking at leisure activities, school meals, or what it is. We have enormous housing problems, rented skyscrapers, difficulty in getting into property markets, those with the greatest problems are especially those who are unique, or single - parent families. These are the poor people. Special discussions about poverty cannot be made on the program, special discussions about poverty do not have the priorities of the council. These are large groups of people who never make ends meet and we, in the 11th richest world society, have no solution to how we're going to solve this subject, how we're going to make sure that here in this rich and good country, everyone can live with dignity, and people don't have to be ashamed. I was sitting at a meeting last night with people who are poor, and they said, "The worst is the shame of being poor, which isn't a lot anyone chooses for himself. Madam President. I wish this special discussion had come on. This truly is a subject for which the Council is to act, for it is a disgrace. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to be happy that the presidents of HB Granda had a discussion with the town management of Aranesp and the Board of Resources for the future plans for the company of Aclin. It is very important that all in these interviews are in their heart, not in their formal conversation. This is a huge business of interest that we have to figure out so one hundred people don't risk losing their jobs. If that were to happen, it could affect the livelihood of these individuals, the pay of the town and its services. In the event of this, the HB Granda operation would have a multiple effect on the community of Aranesp. If the town management of Acdíns and the Fax Force Seas with the nation's nation's highest business failed to produce results, I believe that it would need to reevaluate a dinner system that we live in today, to see if it is more clearly possible to connect the quotas with settlements or to make it easier for rural society to use the premarital rights for which a decision exists, such as this threat does not increase the security of a number of individuals, and thus in some case, a community-based basis. Of course, we want a fishing business to bring profits. That's what HB Grandi has done. This is important for advancement in this article. But let us realize that since 2008, HB Grandi has gained about 40 billion. If such a large, elegant fishing business wants to agree on the article, they need to be ready to take a little dip when they are in bad years because they have had a very good year's trip. It's socially responsible for what we're doing. Senators to see if action needs to be taken, as mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, HB Granda's case is not the only thing that has been raised, but it's the nation's richest firm to take action and it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u5	Madam President. Here's a short review. There's a financial plan now. Her author is Benedikt Jóhannesson, the highest. Secretary of finance. It is 363 pages, beautifully installed, and in a fine band. The contents are more suggestive. On page 18. 12 says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Governments have the responsibility to choose between short - term interest and long - term interests, building and saving, taxation, and freedom. Where, though, does the idea that taxation is an opposition to freedom originate? On the contrary, tax pay is the best investment in most people in their lives. It ensures the majority of public carelessness and meaningful life, yet a more reasonable taxation could guarantee all free schooling, cheaper health care, carefree life nights, and many other things. Without the concordance, we would also be badly protected for the big events that happen most of us over our lives. This is the most beautiful expression in her life, of empathy and cooperation. It is also wrong to conclude that structure is necessarily opposition. In fact, there is a chance that the development of infrastructure, poor health systems, and expensive school systems will lead to a great deal of savings in the past. It is true, however, that for short - term reasons, opposition is long - term. There are short - term reasons not to make more money for those using resources and for those who are very well - equipped. Then it's a practical error to lower the value tax and increase private consumption during the run-in period. Thus, 13 billion will be lost from a government fund that will be used to strengthen public service on bread legs and ensure social stability. Madam President. This is disappointing, for the author has often published more successful books and magazines. The book ends badly. It is a recipe for greater freedom for the common people, not for building the necessary structure, and it will cost us dearly in the future. Finally, it is based on short-term reasons. Madam President. I give the book one star.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u6	Madam President. A few words about college. There's often a gap between words and fortunes in politics. Education does not mean a greedy attitude toward financial matters. Unfortunately, the government is heading for more years for dystrophy to these substances if the government survives. If a man glances at the transparent state funds as they occur in our current document, he should be improving the quality of our university work. As we read further, quality advice and new models, information systems, and reevaluation of laws are referred to. That sums up everything. Ten courses have fallen into the University of Iceland. Some professors are not employed for release. Then you ask: " What kind of quality is that? When it comes to the figures, it is found that during the entire study period, there are less than 3 billion who go to the whole college job. Iceland University has, for example. A 15 million increase between 2019 and 2020 and a 21 million cuts between 2020 and 2021. This is called a resolution in Icelandic. When it is taken into account that the house of Icelandic education is included in their numbers, or at least There's a plan that's put out there, and there's no way we can tell what's to do with our own business. When it comes to what is said about the setting of knowledge and university outside of Reykjavík, which are not mentioned on the name of this fine piece of credit, we will discuss cooperation, that is, a better perspective, and so on, but it does not imply that there are really several extra credits for this work. So at the end of the day, it's a starving policy that we're going to face today and tomorrow. Let's hope the better men work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u7	A respectable president. The Environment and Transport Committee held this morning an open meeting on the affairs of United Silicon's factory in Helga. I want to take another chance to thank you. Chairman of the Committee for a good response to my request to hold this meeting. Some details were presented during the meeting. V.E.G. The Environment Minister there considered ideas that she has on how to use green incentives to get heavy industry to reduce pollution. More disappointing, however, was the fact that there had been no thorough examination within the Ministry, of its lawyers, about whether in favor of the factory agreements there was some means to take action against the factory even now. What especially caught my attention, however, were the words and comments of the local authorities in the city of Rhinetown that encouraged us to examine the environment of these cases because once the process was set in motion, with heat distribution in the past, and with the process being triggered, the local authorities would no longer have found out how they would go about it, surveillance agencies would be seen to monitor activities that would be there, etc. I think we're gonna do what. The members of Congress should learn more about the comments I have here incontrovertly and freely related, comments from local government officials in Réjanestown. It is obvious that this is a matter that could come to our attention, and we made a good decision in this legal environment. A representative of the local community was very clear, wanting the factory to be closed, and further development has not taken place. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget that even if this factory is started, another person is knocking on the door, and according to the words of the factory leaders, it may take a year or two to put such a factory into the song in which one wants it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u8	Madam President. I promise not to run from house to house right now after this speech, as I did yesterday. But it was quite a successful protest meeting we had outside the Ministry of Health. True, we didn't get to meet the highest. Ministers, but their assistants invited us in. We may have been 60,370, and a group of Men of Faith and two members of Congress. We received the answers that they should do everything in their power to keep this strategy going. There was no amount of money to be promised, but the conversation is at least the ocean, and we follow through on this. To follow through on this, I will reiterate my desire to have a meeting with the highest degree. The minister of health to discuss these matters in a larger context. I will also request special discussions right after the Passover on mental health, and especially on the arrival of fellow workers. Then I can report, Madam President, if you don't carry it much further, that, hopefully in the fall, we're going to try to have a large seminar in which we call together representatives of a number of organizations, charities and memories and such bodies that burn for these matters and are willing to work together to help the Ministry of Health and the Government find out what goals they have set for themselves. For this, the precise role of these organizations must be explained if they are to receive public funds. I'm glad that this conversation is now taking place and let me be more optimistic than I was yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u9	Madam President. I call attention to the chain of responsibilities presented by the Minister of Social Affairs in the government. We left green have proposed a synonym, which leads to chain responsibility, the responsibility of contractors on sub-sections. The prime address of social security ministers only involves chain responsibilities for practical projects, foreign sub-products, and staff property. It's not accepted by national authorities. Why? The reviews that have brought on our left greens on chain responsibility all depend on setting the chain responsibility laws, that it is the most powerful weapon to prevent social subsidies, even human halls, ensure that subsidies pay public fees, it is not black pay, etc. The only negative report on our left green case was from the firms of professional life. They didn't think it was right to legalize it. It could be met differently. Interestingly, the present level of activity is at its height. Department of Social Affairs was the executive director of the Association for Employment. Is there a free flow in between? I'm just asking. It is sobering not to walk all the way, since those members of the workforce who have been preparing this bill want to do so. ASI severely criticizes the fact that no further has been taken. What is being spared? It would be possible to deal with this problem in Icelandic society and economy, to collect money from the state, and to prevent social subsidies in a labour market that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u10	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. member statesmen often use this team, the council's work, to complain about the work of the council. I'd like to get out of our routine and talk about what was going well this week in the council. I would especially like to comment on the topic. The Foreign Affairs Committee, now held on Tuesday, where we finally had visitors whose lesser part had asked of us some time ago. Hv. The chairman had agreed to have this discussion with us. The subject was nationalism and nationalism. Of course, discussions that took place on the committee were that this should have been an open meeting so that people could have heard and seen what was going on. National pride is exactly what is taking root in Europe. We can see a similar development in the United States when it comes to Donald Trumps. Similar things are seen following the use of Bgreit. Getting the meaning of national polygamy and the big lines of politics that are forming are very important to the committee work. I feel that we have done far too little by taking on expertise, talking to political experts and historians, not just engineers and cartographers and lawyers when appropriate. We need to understand the big context. Our committees need to be centers of knowledge and education as well. We are to share that education and knowledge with others. When this is said, I suggest that the conference committees of the Generals be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u11	Madam President. It is now a year from the news of Icelandic politics. For this reason, I would like to quote a conclusion that the Pirata Government of the Northeast issued on Sunday night, April 3, 2016, on permission of the president's permission: Today's starlight show the tremendous corruption of Icelandic politicians. It has been observed that those who have led people to believe that they were working with honesty and the interests of the public have deliberately lied about their possessions, which they hid in an African community in foreign currency at the same time as they spoke to the Icelandic crown. The people of this country deserve something better. There is a need to interrupt a council and to announce a new election where people will be given the opportunity to take their bag and prefer honest people instead of them. After that, governments and the common people must deal with this corruption - dealing lesion. Now elections are over, actually for a while. The reimbursement of the council was quite some, and now it's time for us here to deal with the corruption. There is a basis for such a struggle. In this context, I would like to point out that Piratar and I have suggested that the various files will be opened and made available to the public without cost; partner list, annual accounts, and so on. We want rules to be changed so that the so - called 10% rule will be removed so that all bank owners and shareholders in the banks will be forced to appear in the daylight light, which is particularly important now that the sale of Anion banks is at hand. We want the bank's sales to be examined in a manner similar to that of the Bank's sale, as well as that of an investigation of the Secret Bank's investment route. Madam President. We've got to get the lights on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u12	A respectable president. It is my great privilege to stand here and address the world of Congress for the first time. I'm particularly pleased to take my place at the council as the representative of the younger generation and as the youngest seated representative of the dog. Today, I am grateful for the trust I have shown. Although I belong to the younger generation, I would like to first adopt my words in this discourse to older ones. The subjects of the elderly are, of course, all of us who hope to age here and who have often felt that younger ones are lacking in their ability to communicate with them. The improvements made in the social security system by the end of the last council were steps in the right direction in which the relief categories were decreased, increased basic pensions, and the system simplified, as well as increasing flexibility at the end of the work, and increased pensional age. Especially an important feature of that system is a major interest factor. It is important that people can improve their jobs after they reach a pension age without having to suffer with excessive impairment. Therefore, I rejoice in the plans of the government, which are presented in an existing financial programme, to raise the holiday target during the requested period. In a society that sees the rapid growth of the elderly, we need to act on the motivation of the system so that people who are around them can see their best in making money. This is not only financial gain but also a matter of individual independence and their social functioning. At the same time as I rejoice in government plans, I encourage my progress in improving my economic situation and making money decreases to the role of other northern nations. We need to do well in handling this group. It is our duty to make sure that those who have done good day work and paid to the community throughout their lives can have a carefree life nights as well as encourage the effectiveness of those who have the ability to work and choose to continue working. If we can't guarantee it, we can't expect us to live here a society in which future generations choose to age. [[Foreground on: well spoken.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u13	Madam President. Today's morning broadcast was able to hear an interview with Helga Sif's Friðjónsdóttir, Dr. Helga Sif referred to a medical staff report ordered by the health minister to consider the harmful effects of existing legislation on people using substance drugs. Since screeching is a word that is rarely heard here at the council, I want to make it my subject of the day's work. According to the above - mentioned report by the health minister, there is a reduction in the damage based on recognition that many people around the world continue using drugs despite even the most aggressive efforts in society to prevent or continue to use drugs. Therefore, there is a need for alternative drugs that help you minimise the risk of continued exposure to drugs. Thus, information on damage, damaged services, and other interventions is needed in the community to help keep people who use the drugs healthy and safe. Madam President. In view of the focus of this report and this interesting interview this morning, I want to draw attention to the fact that there may be a success in setting up a safe spending space, which means living rooms where users can safely consume drugs under medical supervision without risking arrest. Access to safe consumers reduces the risk of death from overdose, improves general health of drug users, improves their availability of health care, reduces the incidence of infectious diseases, and reduces crime to control drug abuse. Worldwide, there are now a total of 88 safe consumption areas, Denmark, Norway, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Canada, and Australia. With this speech, I would like to begin a conversation about this approved damage control program and declare my anxiousness that little has been heard to increase the significance of damages to Icelandic drug policy since the release of a medical report. The decrease is about realism, human rights, dignity, and health of people with addictions. I got it. I got it. To find out more about it, a senator. Health Ministers and Justice Ministers to press necessary legal adjustments that replace the destructive and useless punitive policies that have been in force in the country so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u14	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke earlier that an open meeting this morning on United Silicon issues had been held in the environmental and transport committee. There came the Ministry's representatives, along with the highest. Environment and resource minister, and the EEA, as well as the Ruyjanestown agents. You're right. One senator said, this was a good and useful meeting, illuminating, with a objective discussion that led to this operation and the events that have come up and what the situation was today. What may have been particularly enjoyable at this meeting, in contrast with what has been previously understood in this discussion, is that it was perplexable, free from major declarations, and maintained the facts and laws and regulations. My appeal to the U.S. Congress in this case is that it is usually more intelligent to see how the matter is growing before it is kept in the way of making major declarations. In this matter, it is about looking at what has gone wrong, what is possible in the implementation of the law and in the surveillance that may be lacking on the part of the Commission and what needs to be fixed. That's a special matter for the council. What is in our legislation on these issues that need to be considered? These are all very good things. It is also particularly interesting and good to hear that the heads of the left greens are ready to be involved in this journey and are not going to deny that their share in this case is large, including, from 2009-2013, by the government. who turns to Back, and Helguvík. I'm glad they're in on this trip. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u15	Madam President. Last Friday I gave you a bill for a change in the law on birth and parentoroft. The adjustment is that in the case of still unborn babies, both parents of the child will be paid orlof, regardless of their marital status. The law on maternity suggests that when parents who are not enrolled have a baby, a contract must be made for common custody or association so that the parent who is not giving birth will receive his or her birthal rights. When a child is born still, the nature of the situation, as it were, is impossible to settle such a deal. If so, it is impossible for the parent who does not give him the time to grieve and to recover from the trauma of a child's death. Is this just? No, it's not fair. Our role here in this field is even. To ensure justice and reasonableness for the people of the land. This is where we're going to find the gaps and problems in the laws of the country and make things better for the whole thing. I believe this law in the present form promotes harmful ideas in a man - made image. It is harmful for men as a whole to minimize their feelings, experiences of loss, and emotional well - being. In recent years, there has been a very important community discussion about the bad effects of not allowing men to feel normal and human emotions. It affects their health and promotes harmful ideas about men and men. It is my firm wish that at this assembly the matter be found so that it will not be available and that it will have to be submitted a second time. This case is a pure, balanced case. I can't imagine a government claiming to represent gender equality that won't lead to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u16	Madam President. This morning, did I have the privilege of conducting a meeting called Radird, young people who listened to young people's views? It was on the way of the Youth Council of Children, the Children's Agent and UNICEF, along with a representative of Iceland's Young Association. I wondered, then, about the teenage council that we have a youth conference with various members of a community, and we have a youth council with rural society. So now the members of the group of members of the General Assembly of Children have been considered to set up the General Youth Council. There's something we're going to take care of, and I hope we have some good fortune to find a stage where young people have access to decision making. We are wondering: Can young people have power? What qualities are needed to have authority in the community? There are stereographs, both of us older ones and the young people. May be young, e.g. increased knowledge of older people in politics or results in the age-related power structure systematic differences, e.g. if we look at what the film is like in school, between young students and older students? Is it not for us to give information, to be counselor, and to accept counsel by inviting others to talk with us, e.g. at a council, give them a choice of participation? Democratic education is not about divulging, children, and adults. Rather, it is about the willingness of all to participate in democratic society on their own terms. An election party was one of the things that were discussed this morning and is fond of all those taking the initiative to bring an election age down to 16 years. So I challenge the World of Congress to accept our left green proposal of that matter, but we have suggested that 16 - year - olds be allowed to vote for national administration because it does not require a change in constitution. By doing so, we can show by our actions that we want their view of matters that matter not only to them but to all of us. And I'd like to remind you that this weekend there will be a conference of youth for a discussion of democracy and that young people are today's leaders, not just the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u17	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir rather slighted me that I felt that I was here in the name of someone other than myself and my conscience. I'm very sorry to hear this. As a matter of fact, I'd be very happy to have us here on the subject and not on the man's side. It is a good subject, of corporate chain responsibilities, of the struggle against social substitution in a labour market and to ensure that all enterprises work here in equal competitive conditions and that, no matter where they work, all employees live in comparable rights. There I am very proud to present this matter to foreign workers, who are particularly responsible for chain responsibility. I am impressed by the fact that this is a turning point for labor movement and professional drivers to work together on how this is going to work. Of course, it's not simple, there's a lot to think about, but there's a very successful solution that will be triggered by experimentation in certain sectors, and hopefully more sectors can be implemented as we get along and experience in this matter. I'm certainly glad it's going to happen. Hv. A senator may feel that the matter comes from this direction and views it as sour, but others have to deal with them. I was sorry that I was doing this on some other reason. I don't think it's a beautiful presentation at the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u18	Madam President. I recommend a financial programme for 2018,022. The plan of this format is now submitted a second time on the basis of official financial legislation. The plan is 3,70 pages, and so many pages are to be taken. It expects construction of wood, welfare application, simple tax systems, and a rapid payoff for the State. In other words, responsible economy, which aims to increase prosperity, stable gangs, and lower interest levels. The strategy puts it this way: The government's policy declaration is going to work out in numbers. Health costs increase by more than 20% over time and costs for other health care costs by 13%. A new national hospital will rise in the coming years, the patient's payment system will be improved, and the user - controlled personal assistance will be legalized. There will be room payment in the maternity canal. Transport expenditures are increasing by nearly 23 billion dollars. ... froma previous financialprogramme. The list is a long list of important issues that make room for the plan, no matter where you kill. First only about the form. The plan includes thorough implementation of financial policy targets and economic development policies and paying the public price. The law shall lay the basis for the development of a bill for funding and financial programmes of rural society for the next year. The economic policy that is fundamental to this program has been discussed here during the past few weeks. Helpful comments were received about financialism, as well as for financial advice to discuss it in detail. Economic and financial policies include government, rural society and government companies. While government management is much more extensive than rural society, it is the common responsibility of the State and rural society to ensure that decisions are in accordance with economic goals. A respectable president. The government's economic aims can be summed up in four key elements: First of all, a government venture, especially during the first part of the strategy. This is supported by financial policy, which assumes that emissions of the government account for 1.6% of the gross domestic product in 2018 and 2018, but then reduces the maintenance as a result of the reduction. Second, the labour market needs to promote stability and reconciliation so that pay policy will be in line with government and professional tolerability. Third, the vast structure that has changed radically depends on exporting. In particular, a well - thought - about long - term procedure should be considered rather than short - term solutions. Fourth, there is a need to secure and promote services and infrastructure. To that end, the career must be powerful and commercial. The budget is based on Iceland's Organization for Economics since February 2017. Economic growth last year proved to be higher than predicted, i.e. 7.2%. National forecasts account for 4.3% of the interest rate per year and for the less. The forecast will be one of the longest continuous economic growths in Iceland. There are a number of reasons for economic economic developments. At the same time that tourism has increased rapidly, the regional external conditions have been favorable. The domestic debt has been reduced, unemployment is low, and inflation has been subject to the inflation aims of Iceland's Federal Bank for some time. Although the economic outlook for the next few years is somehow practical, the sky is dwindling, including the air itself. increased tensions in the work and housing market, mainly in the capital area, rapidly increasing tourism and rising gangs of the kroner. All export branches have experienced loss of income as a result of the crown's funding. No Member States in the European Union carry a interest rate greater than Iceland as a share of government income, but about 10% of government funds are spent in paying interest fees. Payback is therefore the key premise that space can be made in order to increase expenses or reduce taxes. All business venturers should go to subsidies instead of setting up permanent spendings on their foundation. This is in line with the opinion of the financial body. High interest rates in Iceland, compared to neighboring countries, limit job structure, increase individual housing costs, and add combined interest rate to the state budget and rural society to the top of Europe. Governments who respect the independence of the bank to make a decision on the control of interest are the only option to create knots with their economic management and circumstances that require a reduction in growth. The largest single factor involved is to maintain a business venture, so money policy may not just have to offset tension in the economy. A late bank may then have less growth for the benefit of homes and businesses. Three forces require maintenance; economic expansion, gang support, and heavy interest, causing a financial policy submitted to the early Council of the past year to account for a considerably greater share of government funds than the policy adopted last summer, or 1.6% of gross domestic product instead of 1.0%. According to the government's law on public financial matters, governments are to set debts for themselves. For example, during a financial conference published in January. it is assumed that the total debt of the official total will be less than 30% of GDP by the end of 2019 and that it will not exceed 26% of gross domestic product by the end of 2022 and will meet the requirements for public financial debt. Let us now move on to the survival of the state funds and policy plans for the state's budget. The economy is now bigger than it was a year ago. Expenditure goals indicate that there will be about 40 billion dollars left in the state. typically a year or about 200 billion dollars. in the cumulative rest over time. In a previous financial program, the criteria were 25 billion. leftover. Most sources of financialism said that the survival of the programme was of no less importance. The financial programme offers suggestions for the overall changes in the merit of the tax system and for munitions to serve as room service and a variety of tourism services. This service is generally step - by - step from the middle of 2018. Thus, the article has 15 months to adapt to that change, from a presentation to a validation. The analysis work that was carried out along with this change suggests that it will slow down, but not stop, an article that has grown faster than infrastructure can handle. Based on the scope resulting from such taxation change in tourism, the overall level of cost taxation may decrease from 24.0% to 22.5% and the interval between the lower levels and the total levels decrease. This involves making a lot of money for consumers, reducing the need for commercial growth. At the same time, insurance costs will be used to reduce the second part of the terms in which there will be room available for those who earn and work. A consistent system of green taxes must be treated, which includes natural laws against contaminated activity, and it also stimulates recovery and other compensatory measures. This requires preparation, and the first step is taken by an increase in carbon costs. A respectable president. The part of the plan that most people are interested in is the frame spending. For the next five years, this total budget is divided into the 34 topic areas. Further priorities and decision-making are found in a financial bill nearest to the fall. It is estimated that the Kingdom budget will be about 78 billion dollars. By 2018, by the end of the period, there will be 11 billion lower. As a result, interest costs will range from 2.8% of land production to 2.0% in 2022. The State budget, the so-called primary fees, will remain almost unchanged over the period. The growth of the main government business groups, management and monitoring agencies, law enforcement and security agencies, educational institutions and health institutions is expected. Also included in the budget are budgets for meeting expenses, where significant excess expenditures are predicted in the current year on health insurance, social security, and security. More than 8 billion a year are spent in this budget. The program has a generally built-up 2% goal for 2018. In addition to the lack of permanent unemployment and social security insurance, a lower reserve is put in hospital and aging agencies, 0.5% of them. During the later years of the strategy, the general budget is expected to be 1.5% instead of 2.0%, while other criteria will remain unchanged. In addition, the plan allows for a more efficient budget-and-invest space for the period between the topic areas by setting priorities. In other words, the amount of money you have decided to spend is not determined. The range of vectors increases as the schedule goes on. The priorities of the government in the program are an increase in the contribution made to health care. The field of health care involved is the largest single currency in the state's business, with the exception of their straddling expenses totaling 188 billion dollars. This year. The plan expects an increase in health - care allowances to be taken up by more than 42 billion dollars. Gathering together in 2022, it will be some 230 billion dollars. This means that there will be an increase of over 22% in the amount of money over the period. The major health projects are the new Landspike, the short - tailed list, and the growing number of nurses. A new system of credits takes effect, and there is a review of the patient's pay period. Mental illness will be treated by a number of national actions and psychological services increasing in schools. In addition to health projects, there are many other projects within the budget, including projects that focus on the principal issues of the government. These include the purchase of three helicopters for the National Guard, as well as the use of animal tunnels and a new Army cell during the period. The Iceland project has completed light-lined in the season. Expenditures to the university will be increased in order to improve quality and meet international comparisons. The infrastructures of tourism are strengthened at tourist locations and in the transport system. The maximum pay for parents on maternity vacations will be increased. The commercial market for senior citizens will be up. The need for disability will be reviewed, the average pay will be increased, and the help with jobseekers will be increased. Legislation for the construction of a general tenet will meet the growing need for housing. The user-controlled personal help will be registered. Preservations for the first purchase will be provided. The rise in number of people who fear the truth will be received. Climates will be dealt with in a complete way. Research and relief measures will be added to a number of topic areas. The budget shows the priorities of the government. The largest budget teams are health and welfare issues. These areas will continue to be strengthened. But a key point is that the 7,700,800 billion that the state spends each year are making the most of it. The budget therefore offers detailed goals, actions, and efforts to set out as a number of measurable goals. In order to meet changes in society, such as the change in population age, the needs of the work market, and to respond to changes in the demands of public service, the government is concerned. The objective is that the citizens receive as much as possible services for as little as possible for taxpayers. A respectable president. Although the plans are on many aspects of the state's success, many of the important elements of extramarital operation, e.g. Reevaluation of the money policy, opening accounting, as much as remuneration and agricultural reforms as fishing. The Commission will then work to reimburse fishing in the fishing sector, which will affect future financial plans. This schedule has a monophasic between maintenance and normal expansion. In accordance with the government's objective, the priority for health and welfare is at the same time as school work is extended, and the total value is 2,925 billion. In addition, transport is spent with regard to the latest financial agenda. The plan is ambitious in all fields, building up for the future at the same time that debt is paid down. In this way, we are living as a relief from propaganda in the decades to come. Iceland is bright ahead when things are wise. The government's guide, balance, and vision, gives this testimony, and it deals with this financial program that the government now presents with pride. I look forward to the discussion that lies ahead at the Senate Hall and the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u19	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of his history. He says that it is bright ahead in almost every group of lawsuits, but already it is for the head of one university to step forward and point up and declare its disappointments with the contributions offered to the university level in this program. There is some evidence that much of the increase at the university is intended for stock costs, i.e. As a result, the construction of Strategies in the United States has been drawn too long and was unhearably by the last government for some reason. It is a very good thing to build. But this shows that only a small amount of donations are available to the university itself. If we read through the program, it seems that our primary goal is to reduce the number of students at a university level so that contributions to each student can be said to increase. The emphasis has been spoken by headmasters at college in the country, and college students before protested, i.e. to reduce the number of college students rather than to develop a powerful university education and increase the donations, if we check them on each student, twice as low as in any other country in the North and considerably below the average OECD. This is a matter of concern, considering that the Scientific and Technical Council has agreed to agree that these contributions are intended to go up. We have an average OECD and an average of the northern countries. This was expected to happen in 2020. We are by no means in this program. In view of the fact that the Scientific and Technical Council is now primarily appointed government advisers at one time, you simply don't understand how to accept such policies in that field and then submit this strategy. I want to pray to the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics to explain this to us. Does he view this as an adequate vision, reducing the number of students in college, making up the contributions? Does he really believe that this is the actual expansion of the university?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u20	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for her answer. This is where contributions are being made to the university beyond what had been done before. Of course, that is so that for a long time you can improve. This can be done in two ways, one by one, and the study can be organized differently, and both will be done. That is what every time students of the university are constantly wondering how they are providing the best and most progressive education for the contributions that the State gives at any given time. This is certainly so that after a collapse, a great deal of emphasis was placed on improving quality of life and perhaps higher education prospects as well. I think it was a good, sensible course. Now, however, there is another situation. There is more employment, and it can be expected that this will reduce the demand for higher education. There was a general demand for people who did not have a job, and they wanted to use their time to improve their knowledge and position in a job market. What we are doing is adding donations to a student. In itself, there is no irresistibly unhealthy decrease in students or cuts that this financial plan assumes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u21	Madam President. I'm concerned about these answers. Minister, especially since I said earlier that as many as half of the additional donations have been available, it seems to me that up to 50 percent of the total amount of money is rising to the stock costs, i.e. The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, has been published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc., by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. The colleges have been underprivileged for a long time. It has become urgent to do something about it. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to the contrary. Here, the Allied Parliament adopted a resolution to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. Among those approved by the Allied Council of Iceland, the 2018 Commonwealth, the Commonwealth, was expected to be made up of a natural museum in a future financial program. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretary where exactly I can find the Museum of Nature in the budget. You see, I still haven't found it. I can't see it in the chapter on cultural issues, and nature can be found in the university section. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, where is the Museum of Nature approved by the General? [[The president calls.]] Of course, we cannot overlook the approval of the Generals for the development of a natural museum in the next financial program. This is the next financial plan after this resolution was adopted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u22	Madam President. I have to confess to him. A senator and the House of Congress all that I don't know where this museum is. This is based on proposals from the plot, and I assume that's right around the corner. A senator says this is going to be under the Ministry of Education. So I'm kind of sorry I can't answer that question. I just don't have the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u23	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech I listened to stunned. I wondered: " Could I be at the top? A minister is describing the same financial program I've been reading these past few days? To me, heaven is between the highest policy declaration and the sea. Governments and policy-relevants and websites at the highest level. Minister take the lead. Tells you the highest. Ministers it is in line with election promises, government declarations and policy of setting only 338 million. K. in hospital service between 2017 and 2018 and that most additional hospitals are being built into a new hospital? I'm glad we're building a new hospital, but are we supposed to cut down the service while we wait for the building? The increase in nursing care is expected to be only half of the expected additional need for new living space until 2020. It simply states that the problem is being raised by the aging nation to the next government, which will bring about the future. Is this the ultimate vision? Ministers believe that a cohesion of the campaign promises, policy of restoration and the government's declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u24	Madam President. I think it's a strange account that an additional four hundred million dollars is estimated as cutting. It's a different calculation than I'm used to. Of course, the future and construction of health services in Iceland are of utmost importance that this is a funded and built national hospital, and they are supposed to be far off in this strategy period. Perhaps the most progressive thing we can imagine in health care is that we receive a modern hospital, leave the house that has become - I think everyone will. Councilmen agree on that - absolutely unsurpassed, which is virtually neither water nor wind. People are in a lot of trouble. I must absolutely dismiss the fact that building a new national hospital for hundreds of billions of dollars is a small or insignificant contribution. How important it is that we set priorities in order for us to build a new and impressive high - tech hospital in the years 2018 to 2020! We are adding in all things. It is true that for many reasons, this was a long time, but it was not possible to build up and even cut down in hospital service. It was, for example. making specific progress in 2009,2013, for reasons that we all know, is being built up again, and I think we should celebrate together. We always move closer and closer to our goals. We realize in the garden that you will take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u25	Madam President. Now I'm afraid it's the highest. A minister has not listened to me at all when I addressed him with questions. I was especially happy that this was a university hospital for us to build. We've been waiting a long time for that, and I'm happy for this step. But what should patients do? Are They to Hold On? V.E.G. According to a minister, a strange bill is 338 million. K. an increase is cut. However, when an increase in patients is estimated at 1.7How2% per year, this is a cut-off of 338 billion. K. total hospital service in the country is at 0.4%. That's obvious. While the government talks about and beats that there is a great increase in health care care, there is a call for surgical cuts in the local hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u26	Madam President. It doesn't matter what it's said all the time. An additional one's not cut. That's just the way it is. I can't really say that in any further than last time. However, I would like to take this opportunity because I have received additional information due to an answer to the question. paritaprevir Katrín, Jacob's Jakobsdóttir, and add: The plan accounts for about 200 million. K. a contribution to a Museum of Nature for the next two years and then a higher contribution to the latter part of the programme according to the information I get here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u27	A respectable president. Indeed, it is interesting to consider this financial program. It assumes national interest in economic growth, but in this case, inflation is also expected. In 2018, growth and inflation should be 3% and 3.2%, respectively. In effect, inflation consumes the economy. In the year 2022, there should be 2.6% economic growth and 2.5% of inflation; in reality, it will eat up the economy as well. At the same time, the difference between donations to the 2017 and 2022 is 6.7%, i.e. The amount of contributions to the 2022 university is 6.7% higher than the 2017 budget. In view of economic growth and inflation, it is difficult to see how this is considered to be a significant university contribution. With regard to health care, economic growth of 19.4% or something overall, contributions to health care should be increased by 22.4% for the management of hospital services, medical services outside the hospital, nursing and rehabilitation services, and medicinal products and medical supplies. If drugs and medical products are taken out of parentheses, contributions to health are as high as the economic growth, which will take into account inflation. I can't see how this is a huge increase in medical donations. This follows the trend that we look forward to. In order to reach these goals here, the financial programme has to address many other topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u28	Madam President. That's the opposite of what we're talking about. A senator may simply base on misunderstandings. The wealth there is solid prices, and economic growth is not based on inflation. Rather, it is an increase in solid prices. This is real growth, although it's likely that in the past 12 months there will be inflation, I think we can agree on that, although it's not quite certain because if we overlook the rise in house prices in Iceland in 1.5%. In fact, it may not be possible to do so, but we do plan to do so. These are basic pioneers of a real economy that starts with over 4% and then dances around 3% of the second part and decreases, becoming 2.7 in the end of the period. He's starting to adapt to the average economy over a long period of time. It must be said exactly as it is, like a one-out. A senator noted, of course, that a long - term plan will never be very accurate, but we try to reduce such fluctuations by looking at fixed prices and standards where we look at average economic growth when the present situation is further reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u29	A respectable president. Let us then look past the inflation a little and examine the real growth. The difference between 2017 and 2022 is a 12.1% increase in actual exposure. Economic growth in which this growth is to be costed is much higher. Actually, there is accumulated economic growth and certain cuts in this financial program. Economic growth is far beyond the 6.7% of those who go to an extra college degree. In view of the economic growth we look at and the development we watch, the university is far less than generally the rate of economic growth. The budget definitely says about the priorities of the government, and although the figures do not allow for precisely meeting, the ratios can be expected to remain if the figures change, and the university levels are far below interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u30	Madam President. It's true that we're in there trying to follow some kind of economic growth. I had this discussion with a representative from OECD a week ago. Like others who have given a review of the then successful financial policy, he felt that perhaps by following the economic growth, we would bring about an increase in expenses for each individual. The population in this country is about 1% a year, and we're going through it considerably. He described his view that for a long time, expenses should be in line with population growth. However, I said that for various reasons, we had fallen behind, and it was natural that in this country the increase was greater, at least or less time, until we recover from the crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u31	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget for 2018,2022, which has been waiting a long time, can be said. At any rate, I and the council members of the government have prayed and discussed that, considering the policy, there is no good. Sadly, that has been the case. The policy confirms what we left green and more have held up in our discussions, i.e. that the application to the infrastructure announced by the Independence Party, the restoration and the bright future for elections will be held here on the table. It is widely referred to as a welfare offense and as being bright as the highest. A minister said, balance and vision are what the plan holds. The government is going to make a great deal of the budget, both for recruitment and for the government's institutions. The maintenance goal will generally be 2% next year and will include more causes than was suggested in Bjarni Benediktsson's financial programme; 2% will be well-connected next year, and only health and aging agencies living at a 0.5% conservative requirement. These 2% of maintenance Scenarios reach high school, the university degree. It will have to be maintained four times more strongly than it would have been according to the Declaration of Independence Class and Front Class. There is a decrease in the legal system, in rural areas, in urban areas, in tourism, in the high school system, and in housing support. It is noted that the cumulative decline in GDP will be around 29 billion, and by the year 2022, and in total, the cumulative continuation period of 90 billion. It's on page 8. 57. Wasn't there supposed to be large amounts of money to school? Of the 660 million higher colleges between 2017 and 2018, the largest part, as mentioned here, is going to be in the construction of House English Enlightenment. The only option in the government is to suggest that the number of students in college should be limited if there are a higher level of funding than in the rest of the North countries. There is talk of an impending teaching card, but there is no suggestion on how it can be met. Well, it's said that we need to reexamine the law on their education and make a plan of action. This is not a new problem. The senior schools are not allowed to enjoy the financial resources that would be spared by the reduction in the number of students in spite of the large declarations of the subject. Hospital service contributions are about 7.3 billion. During the course of 2018/2022, if aside, contributions are made for the construction of a new land hospital. It's in the middle of nowhere, just like here was traced off the river. paritaprevir Adolescent G. Harðardóttir daughter, that these funds are by no means sufficient to strengthen health care services, although it is difficult to see it will keep up with the number of patients, let alone the promise of a patient's lower payment rate, such as the highest level. The secretary of health has repeatedly said so. I am deeply concerned that this government is going to continue the course of deforestation and privatization. I don't minimize the plans for the proliferation of psychiatrists at medical clinics. It was decided in the past government, and good plans are in place for the present government. I'm sorry, but I can't see that this is meant for enough money. Time is short and much to take. There is no such thing as housing issues in the policy of the government. Although the number of apartments mentioned earlier may not have to be enough for the next few years, this plan reduces the budget. Certain agreements were made, but it is clear that this is not enough. Growth improvements decline significantly, and since 2020 they will be nonexistent. The big issue in the government's family activities in combating poverty is to initiate a full reexamination of children's families, and there are ideas of having a single settlement that combines traditional child reforms with all the benefits a parent receives through social security. Hopefully, this will not go the same way with older ones who ended up with a much fewer increase. In the 27th issue of disability and the affairs of disabled persons, there is an expected reduction in the number of disability, including the number of disability, as well as the number of disability. Through a workout assessment. It is dangerous to believe that prior to the full analysis of the results of this would be possible for the population to be sold for that purpose. Seven micro-energy donors are poor, and they did not improve in the actions of the last government. I agree with the concept of extending the period a person can be in rehabilitation and that there are important places for people in rehabilitation rather than for a job participation pressure because the labour market is not so eager to get disability. There is an increase on page 8. 54, section on pay and prices proposals and economic change criteria. It says, by permission of the president: In line with average percentage increases in labour markets, where they are expected to become higher than inflation over time. The increase in improvement is based on a decrease in the range of 3.13/4.4.4%). This is far below the minimum wage rise and really means that the status of a pensioner is getting worse. Finally, the user-controlled should be arrested personally. Unfortunately, this is a conflict with the rural communities, as can be seen in the forward bill of social Affairs, which explains about hundreds of millions. Everything is on the same book as dealing with societies. The arrangement to deal with the gray areas was set aside and appeared to us here. The average NAPA contract for 2014 was more than 11 million, and the government's costs have gone from 20% to 25%, while the communities believe that they have to be 30%. At that time, it was some 5,000 people who took advantage of such service. I'm sure they'll grow. Reading on page is a very strange thing to do. 328, with President's permission: A child's relationship with mental and developmental disorders is characterised by a lack of overall vision, as well as a lack of integration and cooperation, and a lack of service in certain fields. As a result, there is an increase in hatchlings. I think this is very much said about the inactivity of the last government and cannot really see that this is being taken into consideration in this program. In fact, it is difficult to grasp many things, including just a complete conversation between every case and little or nothing that is wrong with the issues and about the amount of money that is laid down. Environmental issues that are counted among all the most important issues of the next decades - what do we see there? The climate we are going to be talking about? This group of paintings goes up around a billion between 2017,2018, and then they decrease between 2018 and 2019. It is not acceptable for a government who claims to put climate issues first. I want it at the end, because time flies on and you're on the verge of coming to the top, asking the highest. Minister on a few things. On page 18. 11 of the plan says, with president's permission: It will provide a clearer framework for the use of nature and the resources of the state, both land and sea. These include government revenue and sustainable use of resources. What does that mean? What are we doing here in the lake? For example, will access to salmon license continue without resource bills? Later, says: A uniform green tax system must be established, which includes natural laws on pollution activity and also catalyst emissions and to other counter-important measures. It requires preparation, but the first step is taken by this financial program, which means an increase in carbon costs. It's like the highest. The minister came in here. But is the release of contaminating activities exclusively in carbon emissions? Is there more to carbon tax than automobile exhaust, as well as investments, at least on a cut of the price? What green taxes are planned to coordinate, and in what ways? What policy does the government maintain regarding the taxation of electric vehicles that have reduced carbon emissions? Will they be taxed on the loss of a government fund? What really involves measures to reduce carbon emissions? I also have to close my mind to criticize and agree with Mark Bly, professor of international political economics. He has criticized the financial rule, which is totally in the spirit of what we left greens discussed when the law was accepted and I feel that it is here in policy, and now it continues in the budget. But Mark Bly points out that financial rules such as these are becoming increasingly common. Thus, it is as if an attempt to establish a place and to make virtually irreversible the maintenance policy that has rode homes around the world over the last few decades. It is of only benefit to the creditors and the ruling class. I'm sorry, but under this, I'm going to have to take it because I feel that everything points in that direction when we read this plan. And at the end, I'm going to throw up more questions. There are several words of a crown or a proportion increase in this plaque that is difficult to access; and this does not support transparency. Why have the aims of counseling not been synchronized? Some of the department's budgets, others don't, and some of them just don't deal with it, and they don't work according to current laws, they just give us a half-baked job to the council, and they intend to get us out of work. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm sorry I can't make any more talks in this tube.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u32	Madam President. I want to use this answer to answer it. Senator, as far as I can. I want to draw attention to the highest. A marine and agricultural minister has been identified as saying that there is no restrictions on the right to fish farms and encouraged that people do not go there to an uncontrolled growth. I can imagine that it would be normal to have resources. It uses common resources in private companies. About a question why. A senator on green taxes: It is true, there is more to contamination than carbon. For example, I have studied in the Ministry of Economic Affairs taxation of Diversity and Gas, but at the time, people believed that gasoline was more dangerous than a drug for pollution. Today, recent studies have shown that serious pollution, although not carbon pollution, comes from a fragment. I think it's normal that we look at the taxation on this fuel. In the case of electric cars, there is no plan to eliminate them in the next few years, so I say exactly as it is. So we still want to encourage their use. Finally: It is normal for good equipment to be used more effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u33	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is a pleasure to hear of the electric cars, not to tax them, but to keep them from the current state. It is also very important to tax both diesel and gasoline more than we ever have because we want, or at least we left green, emphasis on doing what we can to reduce increased traffic as much as possible. It's also good to hear about the salmon licenses. I've heard of the minister of the sea emissary that she does not intend to take action without control. But in itself, it has not been done on the part of the government, nor is it suggested in this five - year plan. There is a possibility that the resource costs should be taken from this rather than increase the resource costs of some of our resources. I would also want to see and hear from a minister whether he thought it should be reconsidered that the industry has been well paid when it comes to paying the fees. You know, about maintenance in good school. V.E.G. I suppose a minister knows, as I do, that the Ministry says they can't collect themselves into the 2% they're supposed to do, i.e. To make a reserve for themselves, because it is such a treasure: some, I will not say that it is all of them. It has been observed at a meeting of the branch office that they are unsaid. This means that they will not be able to react when they are under evil or when they need something that should be solved within the Ministry, unless they receive additional funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u34	Madam President. I had thought of falling away from the second answer. In some ways, this might be a little reverse. But I would like to inform you that in the Ministry of finance, we are planning to make a financial effort, where we will help recruitments and their institutions to meet this requirement and also in general to review how we can provide the services we are already providing for less money or to provide more services for the money we already have available. I think it's very important for the taxpayers at any given time to review. At the same time, it is important that we consider whether the ministry provided is always necessary, even though it may have been at some point. I think it's important for a man to ask himself these questions. We in the Ministry of Economics will be trying hard to help other agencies with whatever is at the same time. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u35	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. It is currently 11 billion weaknesses in the budget of the year. There are 8.4 billion who have been included in the financial program we now discuss, of these 11 billion. Which basically means there's a ◯status quotο. They're not making up for it. That's where we're talking about lawsuits that are hard to control. We're talking about S-labelled drugs and takeoffs and other factors that are hard for us to deal with. I agree with the minister that it is very wise for us to find out at any given time whether we can provide better services for less money. But we also know that after passing through the collapse, the number of our institutions is still very poor. I mentioned here before high school. Although the number of students is getting smaller, the money saved was to be returned to school. But what happens? Here's $1,700 million. K. surgery. That's no small thing. It is not about making promises, strengthening the institutions who are unable to receive students, unable to use the latest programs, etc. It is not enough to support and strengthen their institutions and agencies as to how to do better. That's a good thing to do. However, there is a lack of financial resources in many parts of the system, despite the ability to do better by various other measures. That may be what I feel is totally overlooked in this financial program. Besides it's not transparent, you've been trying to look at it and understand it, but despite good intentions, we have to face the fact that there is not enough to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u36	Madam President. I'd really like to come and say good things about this ending, and it's a top priority for us that this financial plan is good, it's important for all the people of the country. Sadly, though, we have been disappointed once more. I'd like to trace the disappointments a little. If we look to the future as stated in the introduction to the Parliament resolution, this government budget will frame Iceland's reality into 2022, although it will be updated every year from now on. It tells us what the future will look like according to the present government. In 2022, children born last year to attend school, students who started high school last year may be finishing college. The society in five years will be about a lot different from what we know today. Five years ago, the Occupy Wall Street movement stood at its height with a demand for freedom and balance. Today is the year and the day since the greatest protests of Iceland were held because of the corruptions of the past - and present prime minister. Five years ago, artificially intelligent people won the first time in Jeopardy's question game. Today, artificial intelligence is driving cars, meaning languages in real time, and planning things that we hardly understand. Our ability to predict the future is virtually zero, even if it is only for the next five years. But we know some things. We know that knowledge will become more valuable, that infrastructure will become more important, that people's freedoms and equations will remain the cornerstones of society. The introduction of the financial program refers to government as being responsible for choosing between building and saving. Here, structure and savings are expressed as some kind of contrast, which is preposterous. Wise structure is essential for future savings. But in financial policy, there is very little structure. It continues with a number of projects that have been called up for years, such as the new General, a new Land Hospital, and the House of England. It's all very good. However, this is not consistent with the cumulative need for building up that has occurred due to action and apathy in the past few years. This lack of structure is already causing us harm. There will be no saving of the long-term delay of waiting on that approach. In addition, in the introduction to financial programs, it is said that governments are responsible for choosing between taxation and freedom. It's simply absurd. The opposition to taxation is taxation, not freedom. Freedom involves many things, but avoiding taxation is not one of them. This should be the best. A year ago, the prime minister was taught. In fact, taxes can contribute to freedom, study freedom, health, freedom to reach their destination, and so forth. At best, it is naive to insist that taxation and freedom are opposites. Really, that's ridiculous. The vision of the future in this financial policy is not a vision that fills me with confidence. Here's the vision for the future: A small improvement should be in several areas, but the majority of the community is down. Forests are expected to collapse, national education levels are to decline, and no structure can be done to encourage the economy or the nation without first demonstrating both in the economy and in the nation's need for no encouragement because everything is linked to the increase in GDP. President. On page 18. 54 of this document says that changes in the Icelandic kroner work programme are not predicted but are expected to be maintained throughout the entire period. Understandably, people may find it difficult to predict the order of the Icelandic kroner as it has been, but assuming that the period will remain unattainable. The link between the crew of the crown and GDP has been very strong in recent years. Since all financial programmes are based on GDP, that it continues to increase so that no cuts are needed, the key key is that we have some sort of financial boundaries, that some rise or decrease can occur in view of the changes in the past few years. The crown's current gangs are very close to the level of a fortune when it was the strongest of collapse. The production pen is similar to that of the prices corrected, and we are only on the edge. The level of government action is just the same. It is assumed that 105 billion will be used. in the subsidies of this year, which is about 10% of the entire state's debt, but not expected to substantially reduce the interest rate of the state's budget due to this, which is an incredibly small decrease in interest compared to the proportion of debt. The main reason is that interest - free loans are being paid off to the Federal Bank, that I understand, for some reason, that pays more than high interest loans. The majority of interest on the loans of the state is trapped. They do not change in market growth. This is about 79% of the debt. This means that even if growth decreases, as has been announced over and over again, without our having seen some of the facts, the financial burden of a government fund will not necessarily reflect it. I just think it's top priority for the government in a financial programme to get close to the interest costs of the state's budget. However, the purpose here is to reduce debt without much looking at interest costs, that it reduces by a total of 10 billion over the period, which is not very much compared to what it might be. Budget support is scheduled for 14% of this period cut. This is mainly because interest improvements are not updated, I think. Prosperation is far from a perfect system, but this is what we have, and the government has declared nothing better. Thus, this cutout would be a disaster, even though it was not an enormous debt of real estates, housing shortages, and huge interest levels on the mortgages we now experience in the community. This approach to the government may fit perfectly with the maintenance objective, but it would be more correct to call a retrospective goal. Government funds decline from 42.3% this year to 41.4% at the end of the period as a share of GDP. This leaves room for the budget ceiling at 0.1%, which is about 3 billion a year. This means that reduction is required, cuts are needed in order to meet the decrease in debt and the rest criteria. This means that only a slight inflation is needed beyond the increase in gross domestic product for us to be in a position where cutting is necessary according to financial policy. There are certain facts about large - scale expenses for education that are confusing. There is talk of an increase in the category of environmental protection, which, of course, is at the end of the period, but in most of it we are talking about a reduction. Some of these are great things they say about doing, like it's like, you know, like... like... like... like... you know, like... you know, like... you know, like... you know, it's great, it's great. It's like, it's But overall, this is not good enough. Madam President. Consider the future. In the year 2022, a new financial agenda will have to be established until 2027. In this financial policy, there will be complete collapse of the infrastructure, lower level of education, worse health care, vast problems with transport and welfare systems that are not ideal for the well - being. All of this hangs by the continuation of the longest economy in Iceland. It takes no more than a small setback to make the entire town collapse. The corrosion may go or the touristes, the oil prices may increase or decrease the aluminium prices. There is no tolerance into the system that this financial program describes as minor accidents in the economy. The future is not bright. There will be no restoration. I just kind of think that it's a pretty rough way to be independent of the people of the country. This prospect is ugly. I express great sympathy for those people who may be forced to live with them. I could have read up a percentage and discussed specific details in this direction. I guess my partner, huh? paritaprevir Leví the Gunnarsson of Gunnar will do so below. But to be honest, the problem is not necessarily hidden in the individual components but in the big lines. There's no good prospect here. We see again an example that the present government has no vision of the future, does not intend to prepare the land for the future that will come, whether we like it or not. I'm very worried that if this is not going to be a good result for the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u37	Madam President. I would like a word of trouble. A senator on interest payments informs the United States of an announcement made to the Council of Price today that the state funds have purchased back their own bonds of debt worth about 100 billion bucks. It is an American bond that carries 5,875% interest in paydays in 2022. We'll buy this at the price of 115. This means that over the next five years, the interest payments will decrease from what is expected in the plan, this is just what is going on today, about 5.8 billion k. every year. It's a real reduction. I know it's a pleasure. A senator says there's a much greater decrease. We are attacking the loan or the debt category to which the highest interest is due. We feel that we are making a living for the period we are discussing right now. That's why I thought it would be true to say the opposite of what you're doing. A senator. Information about this and the results of the decree were received just as this discussion was about to begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u38	Madam President. That's a lot of news. I assumed that the financial program would be successful, even after it was approved. This refers to significant changes that do not occur in the Bible. Admittedly, it is positive that things are being paid faster down. True, I don't know what that money was done, whether it came from that 105 billion dollars. But it sounds like two-year interest, which we're paying to buy back. I'd love to, if anything. A minister could confirm my understanding that we are paying two years of interest on this loan in order to buy it back. Then there is good reason to ask: Will anything in this stand to the fact that soon something is being undermined? While doing so is positive, we need to keep an eye on how the government's finances will continue. Otherwise, we're going to talk about and even agree to what is called a complete lie.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u39	Madam President. I've said before that I don't like language when it comes to language. At the end, a senator did what I'm learning about exactly what is happening. I still remind you of a word I reminded you of in my previous answer. Hv. Harðardóttir Oddný's true that you don't know everything that happens. The only thing we know is that not everything we expect is because we're talking about a uncertain future. These reports, however, come at a very good and favorable time because we are discussing a financial program. I believe this is a very positive news. You're right next door. A senator that we pay it under pressure to save money into the future, including interest payments on the current year. But we feel that this is the best payment on the loans offered to us. In other words, it was hoped again to buy, for 88% of this debt class was now paid up with a government fund. Regarding the amount of money involved, the depositor's deposit of the state's savings was used on the rights of some $100 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u40	Madam President. I don't think anybody can say this isn't good news. The problem is, we're trying to figure out what's going to happen in government for the next few years. It's really hard for us at the Council to imagine what's going to happen in terms of government over the next few years, when it is not even possible to fully understand what will happen in the next few minutes. The fact that we're talking about a financial program that runs out on certain grounds of subsidies, which is just the best of matters, and that all the factors are upset when we're on the first. to see if you're going to agree with that budget doesn't inspire much trust in you, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I have to admit, I don't know exactly what to say to these news stories. This is good news. Of course, it's good news that we're paying off debts. I suppose it's of the 105 billion who was expected to go into debt this year. But it would be to be remembered if the highest. A financial minister would learn to give the council some kind of data that would illustrate the reality we will live with, rather than let us know about purchases that go through some time when we are trying to have reasonable discussions about what is going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u41	Madam President. I'd like to start by celebrating these stories. That's a lot of news we're hearing. This loan is in my mind in 2012. It was supposed to pay up to 2022. A very adverse loan of less than 6% interest in reimbursement, but compared with today's walked, the success at which it is being bought, is quite unbelievablely practical in itself. This is a great cause for rejoicing and a way to make that statement. I just wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy: When he talks about the gang issues and that we're supposed to put some kind of prognostication into the financial program, how the senator envisions it. Because it's where we're into something that just can't be true in itself. Is this supposed to be different forms, or what? If the Ministry's employees or other institutions that work for us are making long - range predictions, they're going into another business in itself, a business that's only a currency trade. It's some game that I don't see how things could work in the future in such a five - year forecast of a particular success, as well as about the strength of the Icelandic crown, if we think about it. If the crown was predicted to become weak, would it not be to speak down or up? There are these thoughts that I wanted to ask you. A senator in his image that we could predict this in such a way. Would that be of help to you? How would the senator imagine that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u42	Madam President. I appreciate that question. That's a good question. It is simple to answer. If you took that starting point as the Ministry of finance and the highest. The secretary of finance assumes, to walk continuously, but then to build a line that gradually expands over the period from the historical flutter that we have seen in the past five years and calculated into it symmetrically so that we are not measuring the crown's relief or damage, but the margin that was perhaps 95% or 90% or even something down, would be visible to some sort of cone stretching out over the period in which we could measure the accuracy of the prophecy at any point. It is a simple methodology well - known. Or we could talk about other possibilities, such as setting up, such as cot. A senator mentioned, some scenarios where we anticipated a 10% crisis, a 10% crisis, or something like that. All of this is also well - known. Or that we could even go as high as possible. Secretary of finance has spoken a lot about, going into some sort of gangship with other currency. It may be a little bigger than that, but we might not have to discuss this particular point. What I mean with this is basically that there are lots of methods to make such predictions in that it is not being concluded that some thing will be true over a five - year period that has not even proved true over a five - day period. That's the point. Methodology is very important in everything like this. I think it's a rather technical thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u43	Madam President. Is then what? A senator agreed that there would be tremendous misunderstandings in this way? Of course, financial, financial, and then the budget must be based on something solid, how to put the floor and build on. With many motion pictures, or a variety of prognostications, and other things - there is one essential factor of an enormous number of factors on which all of this is based. The shrimping phase will increase on any ground that is floating in any way, how to manage e.g. refers to the financial agenda. I don't see how this could work. There are so many reasons that would speak against it. I don't think this government is thinking of taking in coin advice or getting a walk or anything else. There's another discussion. We're talking about a financial program that has to do with what we're talking about here. So that they can be fed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u44	Madam President. Here's the news in almost every answer. The term "mind " is now spoken of as" not standing to bring about the mastery of coin. " As far as I can remember, a committee was formed to consider that possibility not long ago. Well, I don't know. There's all kinds of news coming here. But I'll tell you what. paritaprevir Of course, putting in some predictions would increase the misunderstanding of Friðbertsson, Njáll of Trausti. But if we look at this fine piece of paper, or not a good thing, by the way you look at it, we're on page. 13 National Predictions. [[It's been great.]] It's one page. And then we have economic ratings that sound on a few pages. As we look at the complexity of this document, which is all the business of the Icelandic state until five years of age, I think we could quite afford to have national ideals that have more weight than one page. At any rate, I would not be harmed if I had to read ten more pages, which would tell you in any way the underlying factors could be turned aside from the best possible forecast. Now you could just figure out to take just two stage photos, a 10% rise and a 10% decrease, and then in some way describe what the government's action would take, based on the fact that there was some percentage variation in one direction. At least then, we would have preconceived reasons to appreciate the considerable confusion and uncertainty that this describes. Because, of course, you have to build most of your plans on a regular basis. But there are no constants, and we have to understand that there is some diversity in real life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u45	A respectable president. I'm glad we're in the U.S. Congress area that we're talking about the budget of the year 2018,2022. I feel like a light of this plan. It is a light that will guide us as we discuss it and how jealous we have become as a community after many years. That's what I feel to be the big line when I read the financial plans presented today. We should not forget, of course, that we have different opinions, that of course we have different expectations, but in all basic matters, we look at an exciting time ahead. For the first time, we actually discuss financial programs according to the method we have set for ourselves with new laws. True, we agreed on a budget during the first spring, but we may have built it from the foundation to this point. Of course, it's not perfect. It's not perfect. It's not perfect. We will take some time to practice more in that presentation. Yet, we are talking about a financial program in situations that are much more likely to be the means of managing too much growth, of managing much economic growth, of having a full economy in the past year. We have a situation in the national setting where unemployment is at the minimum in history. A few years ago, we were discussing whether long-term noncooperativeness would become possible in Icelandic society. We're not talking about it here. We're going to talk about women's professional initiatives, and they've almost never been more. These are the circumstances we are considering over the next four years. We will discuss a financial program in view of an increase of 9.5%, which is naturally incredible. Let's hope we keep them a great deal of money in our purses. We'll discuss a financial program that reflects the great resistance society has observed in recent years. We also have a serious problem discussing financial programs over the years, but it is a pleasure in that we are dealing with positive factors in this case, tension in society, but not in recession and pessimism. I think it's very important that we remember that when we discuss this important matter. We will discuss a financial program that deals with the big task of holding the state's funds with more effort to address the spell at the same time when it is determined to reduce debt in order to cover interest costs. That is the main theme of this financial program and the news at its height. The secretary of finance moved from this chair to tell us that we were achieving a faster pace than we planned, a few days ago, a very joyful event, and I welcome them. In that light, I'd like to discuss a financial plan. We will discuss a financial program that confirms what we were participating in in a conversation in society during the fall of the election, that we were going to prioritize money for welfare and health. We're putting it in place in this financial program. In December, we had unique circumstances in the council, putting financial laws, and we fell prey to the kind of work of criticism that we were throwing too much money into a single group of languages. Still, we are taking the steps we took at the council in December. We are, for example. by 20 million. K. More on transportation than we had a few months ago. Yeah, I'll bet you I'm so bummed that we don't even have more access to transportation. I'll admit it. But this is what we have from playing, and with it we'll win. We do not discuss much in the financial program on the development of government property, but I think that we should remember to discuss when discussing the plan, how we can use our property collection to advance faster, and how we use the government property, and what assets we can put down to advance faster, such as On the road. There is also much news in the financial program that I would like to draw special attention to. When we come to the latter part of it, when we see the potential end of building the long - awaited hospitals, which we are truly going to be behind and building in this program, at the same time as we are achieving the success of having reached the State's interest rate substantially down, we face the remainder - of course, there is nothing unchangeable in this world, it is transient and we will not forget it - a tremendous opportunity, a huge amount of money, which some call, in my mind, to create the basis for us to cross the tax system on a new and prepare it under the future, and how we will use it as an economic and dresser than we have the opportunity to do in these situations. A respectable president. I feel like the tone of a financial program that we're going to discuss every year - this is just a plan we're discussing in this spring, there's another plan coming in the next spring - big news they're that we're looking for a long time and we're dealing with the things we're going to do in our society, prepare them and prepare us for them, e.g. buy three rescue helicopters that I think are remarkable and important, that we are achieving the success of being able to support it. In this discussion, I would like to mention that in the treatment of the Council case, we are at a number of milestones in which we will now, for the first time, refer to a financial program to all members of the council for a professional discussion. All committees of the council will be hired here after the Passover stop. I also say that I am an important milestone in the Algill work, and as a result, we make the financial authority committed by the General of the Council much stronger than it has been so far. We have discussed the financial agenda, and often in discussions about the new laws on government finance, we have spoken of the fact that the Council has given up some power, that the Council now has less influence on the financial situation of the State. I want us to take this change guided by the fact that we are promoting the sovereignty of the Generals by the way we use the World Council for the next few days to discuss the important financial agenda. Let us not lose weight in the discussion of the fact that members of the council are not aware of how they affect the cost of a proposal, for that is, of course, a course that we need to work and explain, the extraordinary power that will not be taken from the Council. No one can take with general legislation the government's authority for financial management in Iceland. I would like to emphasize this at the beginning of the discussion and that we all have in mind how we will use the council to now take individual lawsuits, review with the advisers how they will achieve the goals they will set out in the budget and what action they will take. Since then, the last assembly has made contact with the contents of this program. As members of the council, we've got this in our hands. This is the proposal of the government. It is then up to us to discuss it and to make adjustments and to emphasize the emphasis that the council will bring on. In view of this, I'd like to stress that whether it's a budget or a member of the Parliament's Committees, they have a lot to say about how we're extending our futures and how we're preparing for the financial program and how the Senate's payment on it. In the new law, we have appealed much to the increased responsibilities of a minister. The Ministers now set out their goals, and it is up to us to follow them. It is also for us as the Generalis to follow the way they are applied. There are many challenges and challenges. In this discussion, members of the council have already addressed some weaknesses that are in the current budget of this year, but we must also be reminded that it is our custom to provide and intervene when necessary. I also picture myself as an extension of the General Assembly's strong budget that the annual reports dealt with by law on public finance will be the basis for the subject of professional committees at any given time to address and review and to be involved in their field policies based on financial programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The decision is now made, or it is suggested in this council resolution, to place a merit tax on sleeping and recreation in the general stages. I'm glad you're here. I've been talking about it for a long time and actually suggested it on the budget bill that I was responsible for in 2013. Actually, it would have been a better time to do that. But that's not why I'm saying it's too late to do it now, far away. But I was surprised. Of course, this service was also surprising. I was in charge of large meetings with travel services and with representatives of all classes. Not one group spoke this way, except the United States. The question was repeated, right - left, and no one was going that way. I was not surprised that this would come as a complete surprise to the tourism service, since the groups now in the government had not spoken for this route at all but, at least, a class by which they spoke against it. Senator. I want to ask you why. A senator: When did this change become? Which I celebrate. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator, for he says that transport contributions are only reasonably good to him, although he would like more, but they are only about five billion dollars. When there is an inexpensive transport plan between 12 billion and 15 billion. I'm surprised. Would it not be better to refrain from lowering the general step down to 22.5% and use the benefits of putting the tourism into a higher value tax level in order to build up transportation and other community infrastructures? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, I could have mentioned it in my talk about these valuable tax changes and spells at the tourism service. I didn't, but thank you. A senator for reminding me to address this subject. I strongly urge that in the case of the Parliament, people will carefully review the consequences of such a system change and what we will do with it. I think there's a lot to recommend that we go that way. There is also much against going in that way of making this system change. I'm not ready to say here and now this is the only right way. On the other hand, we are confronted with this, and we are right. A senator says, or not quite right. A senator said, since during the campaign, we discussed some of the ways in which travel services were paid. It was done. I am quite familiar with having participated in that discussion, at least in the campaign I was involved in. I said that the amount of money we have made for transportation may be larger, and in some respects, I could be disappointed here that this road program we have often spoken about is not fully financed. Actually, I don't think it's knocked off the table. The government and the Supreme Government. A secretary of transportation has prepared and started a discussion about other ways to finance transport, which is not then discussed in a financial program for this time. But they are absolutely there. I also mentioned in my talk that we should look at the government property collection and see how we can shape property in order to advance transport. It will then come to the Senate's attention on the matter of how and whether we apply such ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u48	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. A senator whether I can understand him so that he is not entirely convinced that this is the right way and could even consider the legal committee that he takes the lead in providing some other suggestions. Counts 'em out. Senator that taking e.g. ... money,likeahead. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, suggested that he sell the base and take advantage of the funds in the way, bridges, ports, and international airports, as he did. In an article in the Morning Press, did a senator write it? Counts 'em out. A senator, the chairman of a legal committee, that these are two things, using property sales to do, or changing the tax system for implementation, have the same positive economic effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u49	A respectable president. I have a very simple answer to much of the questions as well. A senator will turn to me. Yeah, I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli, Björn Kárason that I thought it was a good idea and really desirable thing to do. We've got a lot of action to do, not just on roads, but on ports, improvements to airports, and such factors, and it might well change our share of property to the air station to do that. Yeah, I'm saying that when I talk about the government property collection and how we can change it to advance more rapidly in that subject. But I'm going to make a decision that I think it's very important that in the treatment of the matter here, and when it comes to discussing the worth of tax changes in travel services and in the conduct of her members, the Council Board carefully reviews how we stand for such a change and whether it will be exactly as implemented as it is in this proposal. I would like to emphasize that the council is now in its own hands. The procedure should also be unpredictable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u50	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke of much leeway. However, the financial program says that if economic growth fails, it is very difficult to reach its goals. I don't quite understand the amount of space you're talking about. Now, not much has to happen, e.g. Just a collapse or a slight decrease in the number of tourists, although we have not yet had an analysis of how sensitive the article is in the statistics we asked for. It's also about the reduction of debt as high as possible. The secretary of finance introduced us earlier. One minister said that the deposit in the Federal Bank was used to pay off the loan. Then I guess it was some of the currency store or something like that. Somewhere, these 100 billion come. Somewhere, they are part of the economy we have and should be used for something else, a growing one, or something like that. This loan was paid down rather than something else according to plan. Now the plan is not approved. The bank was to be used to pay off the loans. It makes you wonder how this will affect the rest of the system and the economic candidates on which the whole policy is based. It would be interesting to know whether it affects the financial resources that a minister or the government has in other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u51	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said he didn't quite understand where I could see this leeway. I mentioned the space I see in my mind - and I used to use a lot of caution to say that everything in the world - that when we come out of the time to have enough money to build hospitals and go further on paying off debts and paying off interest costs, I see much room. That's what I meant in my speech. I hope so. A senator saw where I was going in that regard. Regarding the second part of his questions, it has been discussed in the press on the Congress case that we are headed for a more efficient government fund. There was also talk of a fall in some of the apartments in Iceland. I'm giving myself the payment now made from the deposit of the Secret Bank to pay off debt is part of that budget management.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u52	A respectable president. I hope we have this scope and we'll be in the position that the budget puts us in in five years. But at that point, we have had to tighten the belt in the same way that we now do. In fact, that situation is maintained in several areas and found in others. After five years, we're gonna have to enter the infrastructure, which I can't possibly see in this financial program. It says in the budget that if economic growth does not work according to a plan, which would be met if it did, neither will this work according to a plan, and then we will not have this much leeway, nor will we be planning any internal structures, except for those who have already been attacked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u53	A respectable president. I'll let me agree with you. A senator in some way. They're a lot of the ef-. But I don't want us to talk about the leeway I mentioned, and I didn't want us to think that we're going to make predictions, and that's how it stands for us. I have previously told the discussion of both financial and financial policies that, of course, in the lost decade, we did not have the capacity to charge on the necessary expenses to maintain things in our society. We'll have to work ourselves out of that position for quite a while. But we will only do so with responsible financial management and a more powerful goal on how we use the money we have from time to time, using the wisdom, primarily to pay off debt, to lose at least all the money we spend today to finance money, and saving until we can get on with something that we're sure to agree to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and president of the budget committee for the talk. I thought he was a bit steep and optimistic, but maybe that's what it's meant to be. The process can be unpredictable, but it does not make us very trapped in a particular frame. That is what we have criticized, as it were. A senator knows, and we in the smaller part have been worried about, and he and others no doubt, too. But when we talk about numbers and stuff like that, I'd like to ask, for example. We've talked about the saving, because we've talked about it a little bit. I've been trying to figure these numbers out. The cumulative change in the index of the book, once added, is just over 14 billion. I'm aware that from the end of the day, rents and other items involved in new helicopters are delayed. It would be interesting to know, though, if the senator believes that there is enough room for this helicopter to buy, as well as to train and carry on with more crews, as the Goose has requested. I think that space within the budget is very small if you also take the legal security and the other items that fit in with the lawsuit, the prosecutor, and the like. I'm asking the senator if he's convinced. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he believes that it is acceptable that most of the Ministry cannot make up a reserve because they already use their budget to meet something we believe should be a personal thing. We have been overlooked on the budget that they will not reach some, likely fewer, of them making their spending beds in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for these questions, and he also says that we on the budget have pondered the indications it offers here. I know the views she tore up. We discussed exactly - if I may allow the chairman to tell us, for it is not to be directly quoted at committee meetings - I also mentioned this in my talk earlier, that we need to practice better, or that we need to improve the development of a financial program so that we can read out things like that. A senator mentioned, so we can see the cost of spending in the coming years of the mercenaries. We try to buy three new helicopters that cost us 14 billion dollars, we should be able to read them out of the tables in a simple way. I'm in exactly the same place as what. When I look at the numbers, a senator with his reading. But behind these are also many other variables that cannot be traced in short. The other thing, I'd like to say that, of course, the budget is a document that rolls with specific sizes. It's not a budget. This happens a lot from the time we agree to the budget for spring until we receive a budget bill in the fall. It will be the final action to support the goals we set out in the budget. Hv. A senator asks if it is acceptable that most of the departments do not achieve the reserve they are designed to build up. Then I'll say again: There's still a lot of things going to happen from financial plans to the fall when we discuss the budget. Let us see how we can see this in the case of the advisers, each one at a time. But this is one of the factors that the budget must be concerned with and that affordable resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Things are going to change when it comes to the law. When this is approved, we'll be bound by this money, if I understand correctly. It is not intended to increase income or increase the borders. That's made out in the council arrangement. I'd like to ask you something else I know that both of us are more interested in, and that's transport. It's 5 billion a year. It's a drop in the ocean. This is hardly what we added before Christmas. I must understand that this is a different kind of project. The sale of property is not in hand. Then I'd like to ask the senator to go to college. He was involved in the last government, i.e. was part of that section. Now it is true that there are 1,700 million people in high school will be cut off during the period. Does he think that this is acceptable and that it is being carried out as approved when the high school was shortened?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u57	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to name it as a dog. A senator brought with him from the previous answer and said that it is, of course, expected to prepare the budget for the budget. Of course, things will change. We cannot give ourselves exactly on springtime what will happen or how accurate the budget will be in the autumn. As time passes, forecasting becomes more difficult. There is one fact in life that predicting things, especially the future, is a real challenge. Yes, I have discussed the transport issues and have called attention to the possibility that transport plans and donations are still possible. Yet, I would like to state that I think it is a great improvement that we are in the planned period talking about tens of billions more to what has been previously submitted to transportation. The fact is, we now make up the largest amount of money in our long - term transport system, but the demand is huge. [[The president calls.]] I apologize to a respectable president not to get in touch with high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u58	V.E.G. President. Earlier this week the discussion of financial policy ended, and we will discuss financial plans for the next five years. As we have seen, we are now adapting to a new arrangement following the approval of the General Assembly of a new government law. These new laws involve not only new work ethic but also new thinking. All public members are now working within the same framework to achieve certain goals based on policy ideologies and long - term goals, although some may find five years but short time. Consequently, the role of the legislature committees changes substantially, as well as the role of other WCC committees, who, in the early stages, have to participate in the debate on policy agendas in their turn. Change is always difficult, but at the same time it involves exciting opportunities. I believe this new system will improve provided all parts of the system work together to meet together. One of the main aims of the developed financial programme is increasing the maintenance of the state's funds to offset expansion. It is then planned to reduce maintenance in parallel with a decline in economic growth, but the assumption is that economic growth will decrease over time with a range of 2.5How often between 2018 and 222022. In view of the total state's budget, the plan is that they will be up to 28% of GDP by the end of 2018 and not to exceed 21% of land production by the end of 2022. These numbers are based on net debt, i.e. Without pension bonds and debts, and without bills, and without payments and bank accounts. The target of living depends on an increase from 1% of GDP to 2017's budget to 1.5% in 2018. Thereafter, the annual rest of the A State Fund is reduced by 0.1 percentages per year and will be 1.1% of gross domestic product at the end of the period. Let's stay here. Paying off debt is vital. This allows for greater leeway in terms of government, better loans, and, above all, more sustained in the long term. As a result, the Kingdom will be better equipped to deal with tragedy if it comes to them. All of these are very important things. In view of this, I especially welcome new news of a so - called dollar loan - isn't that correct? - has been paid down today. It is much and good news, and it would be interesting to hear a minister of finance later explain what this may mean for us at this work. We fishermen believe that in view of the situation, it is best to slow down a little on subsidies, since the structure of the essential infrastructure of society has become very important and that it makes me especially mention transportation, health care, and educational institutions at all levels. We would also have wanted to examine fully the pressures of new taxes, such as coming fees and public health taxes, and possibly further changes in the tax system in line with the results of an increasing profit group. Of course, the right management is not interested in this. Rather, the general tax step drops at the same time. That's weird, to say the least. It is only natural for you to ask yourself when the government's political treaty and their election policy are examined and compared with a financial program whether you are holding on to the big words and can both begin to pursue health and transportation programs at the same time as they intend to expand their financial resources. It's not. The problem is that it doesn't work out. V.E.G. President. Before we go any further, I'd like to stress that I like the noble goals of the government. In an introduction to a financial program on the financial network it says, for example, by permission of a president: ▪ During the next few years, there will be a special focus on the structure of the infrastructure and the extension of the welfare system, including with large increases in health and education expenses. As I say, these words are beautiful in writing, but unfortunately, the government's declarations do not extend much further when it comes to numbers. Consider, for example, health issues. It accounts for 22% and 13% of total physical growth in terms of this category during the period. But the increase in health - care costs is mainly explained by huge projects related to the construction of a new land hospital. This project is up to tens of billions. I can't see that the increase is due, for example. for health care and clinics in the country, at least Not to a sufficient degree, and that's a big disappointment to me. It is certainly good that we see a new landstainer rise soon, although I had rather wanted to see him rise elsewhere than at the Ring Road. It is not good that the government is not about to initiate the worldwide expansion of the promised health system. I also criticize that in view of the progress in policy effectiveness, analysis and estimates, these financial and health programs should not be based on a comprehensive health plan. Me and the rest of the candidates have submitted a conquistador of the material. I hope it will be taken care of as soon as possible at the council and that in the future there will be financial programmes for the State based on such programs that will also be reassessed regularly. Thus we will achieve real success in responsible financial management and improve the quality of public service at the same time. Transport and communications contributions are increasing over time. This increase is clarified, as in the field of health care, primarily by huge investments, such as animal funerals and a new war planet. In fact, donations raise about 5 billion on a solid price that is unsurpassed in view of our payment of the last budget, indicating that 12How billion were needed in order to finance an approved transport program. Of course, the same applies to our educational system. Increase to university can be primarily explained by the construction of Ásbjörður. The plan does not expect to meet the fact that university levels have been financed for a long time. In spite of the beautiful promise that short - term study should lead, high school contributions should be used, not to reduce the amount of money saved to the higher level. Iceland's teachers'Association criticizes this as well as the management of high school teachers. A press release from the Teacher Union says, with permission of the president: ▪ A word of promise that all the financial gain of the shortcut would not be removed from high school business, but it will be used to further the services of students have been betrayed. V.E.G. President. Let us now consider only the government covenant and what it says on academic matters, with the permission of a president: The government will promote all levels of school. The university should be supported by maintaining quality and meeting international competition as there is an increase in cooperation and coordination between Icelandic and scientific institutions. The school system model has to be reviewed with regard to the different costs and diversity of the student group. The need for basic and high school needs to be considered so that further emphasis can be given on teaching in creative articles, programming, design and education, in parallel with a campaign in traditional articles. On page 18. 6 in the Conference on Budget Plans is a table showing an exposé of causes of acidification. The high school program is No. Twenty on the list, and it shows that expenses are down to a billion in time. The red thread of the Treaty is the need to build under creative and innovation if we are to be competitive in future international markets. According to a new government official review, government operations in recent years to improve high school education have not achieved the desired results. According to Government Accounting, governments must play a significant role in the fact that there is still a payback in working. New high school laws from 2008 were to become a high school education program, an open - door program that would further enhance the education and study related to services. Since 2008, however, the number of students in training courses has decreased by 7% and their graduations have decreased by 18%. From the time the law went into effect, governments have worked on various measures of improvement without being acted in an orderly fashion, as the newspaper of the Kingdom Accounting Commission reports. The budget doesn't give you good hope that the government is going to do better with work and secondary education. We're in a hurry. In this regard, the budget is far from a far - reaching perspective on academic matters. I'm disappointed. I expected more of the good people now living in the government. There is no forwardness to go, and there is a prerogative that a government now betrays promises and promises that are broken. That's not good. I see at the top. Secretary of finance is still in the hall. If he has time, it would be good to hear him relate a little better to the impact this loan subsidies will have on financial planning and future employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u59	Madam President. I was glad to hear it. A senator puts high hopes in this government. I am convinced that by the end of the season, those hopes will certainly be, not smiling, but fully fulfilled. It is a pleasure to know that high expectations are normal in this government. About a question why. The senator may want to explain, in part, the natural interest rate for the year, and then we have to pay in advance for some 8 billion dollars. It's under pressure. However, it means that there is considerable room for us in the future. So it lowers the rate of growth, making it easier to have leftovers. What exactly does this have to do with just confessing, except seeing that space is growing in general, that in itself it doesn't change anything about the initial equation, i.e. that if we overlook a debt that many clients said should look at, above all, a debt. I think this will be one of the things we're going to have a meaningful conversation about, i.e. Secretary of the budget and what. It's a legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u60	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a good and clear answer. I just want to add: The amount of space that will be possible, if it's the highest. A minister has an answer on his hands, would that be during this five - year period? Are we talking about an increase in the rest of the 2019 infected, or later? So I kept my mind on the numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u61	Madam President. Perhaps this will work in short, so the interest rate in 2017 will be higher than we had anticipated, but the future interest costs will be lower. I think in a hurry that we should think about the difference between the two, so we're not building some kind of profit that's actually just in advance this year. But we are truly relieved of this. That's why it's very good news that we got here today. I am pleased to hear what the members of the general body of Congress welcome this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u62	A respectable president. Here is a financial program, a large picture, a long - term plan on the survival and economy of public citizens. There is good reason to rejoice in the changes in behavior after recent changes in government laws. Four main aims of economic management are to reduce expansion, to stabilise, to bond gang swings, and at the latest to ensure and promote public service and infrastructure. The situation today is that we watch historically high economic growth, heavy expansion, a great need for investment in countries and rural areas, and especially in government companies. We have overgrowth in one of the largest ways in the country that affects other occupations and many aspects of society, such as the United States. The facility, health, law enforcement, nature. We've got a lot of work to make things right here. There has now been a financial conference that has been discussed at the council recently, and now there is a plan for all the topic areas. The arrangement provides a clear link between professional goals and funds spent on individual topics. Here we are setting measurable goals and attach crescent numbers to these targets instead of random parts. This is to my mind the revolutionary progress here, on at least business matters. There is finally a policy and strategy based on measurable targets of infrastructure rather than a random willingness to do well. I have high hopes that financial policies and financial programs based on them will change the old process. A financial committee is not to be a deportation agency on random decisions. It is to take into account policy and measurable goals and to support targeted financial management. We're supposed to look at the bigger picture. That's how we'll be successful. I'd also like to mention that financial programmes are not just a budget for financial matters. It's a government budget. This includes the government business and rural society being part of it as well. Governments and rural groups are now responsible to ensure that decisions are in line with the whole economy's aims to prevent thawing, e.g. ... likea river now. There will be investments and taxation policies for that party in rhythm and in accordance with economic goals. From now on, we'll better know where we're going and how we're going to get there. It'll be a great deal of improvement. I think this practice will certainly be successful, as it is far more transparent and healthier in my opinion. I would like to direct my words to health matters, as this government has focused on health and welfare matters. A major project in my mind is to form a comprehensive health policy, define the ministry, and set goals for us. We emphasize human health, mental health, and aging. In the field of human health, which in my mind is of utmost importance, a prevention tool, it will continue to promote health and good life - style and support the health of my schools, the health of my communities, and the emphasis on mental - health projects. These are important preventive measures in my mind and ensure good cooperation with our rural society, hopefully, who are in close service to the important projects involved. The construction of the Land Hospital will continue to be done on the Ring Road, where present facilities will be improved and will continue to work to ensure design. Health care services will be strengthened, including by increasing the number of professions that serve there, e.g. physical therapists, nutritionists, psychologists. Mental - health services will be promoted, including with a growing number of psychologists in health care and colleges and in many other areas. Annual services will be supported by continued support for home nursing, rehabilitation, day - to - day care, and the growing number of nurses. Abbreviated waiting list will continue to be worked on by certain actions. Finally, in health care, it is a pleasure to have a new system of payment on May 1 return to its place on May 1. The reduction in pay time due to health care is planned during this period. Next time, I'd like to take a turn on the environment. First of all, the production and implementation of a climate plan for Iceland to 2030 is to be carried out. Second, the management of sensitive and relevant areas with appropriate infrastructure is emphasised. Third, all land uses and agriculture, such as land transplants and forestry, and recovery of introduced wetlands, take into account nature's protection and protection of biodiversity. Fourth, green economy and sustainable use of natural resources are emphasised. Fifth, focus is on simple rulework and increased efficiency in administrations using electronic solutions, as well as on integration of projects and increased cooperation between institutions. At the beginning of 2018, the carbon account of fossil fuels and natural gas is doubled. The procedure also has a positive effect on the income of a government fund for a short period of time or about four billion dollars. every year. Further action on green taxes can be expected during this period. The contribution to the environment, the 17 environmental topic sector, will increase by a billion between 2017 and 2018. A number of other important environmental issues, which I'm not going to list here, I count in all of this economic context of enormous importance. Here the emphasis is on long - term thinking and stability. In a financial program, policies for 34 topic areas and 101 lawsuits appear. The strategy involves a detailed goal for each case party and is an important tool for the Generals to follow the recommendations made by the Ministry in the categories to which they are responsible. The most important point is that this type of work ensures that the policies set out are in relation to budgetary legislation. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her excellent review of these matters, especially where there is trouble. A senator reviewed matters according to his policies. It was particularly involved in health and environmental matters. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's situation in this regard is a little more specific. Hv. The senator was quite satisfied with the added attention to health issues according to the financial agenda. It's really easy to play with numbers. I would now need to have more time than I can have here to review what I feel is just willing to submit to this programme, where basic costs are included as operating costs and accumulated compensations are sometimes added and sometimes not. But let it be. Hv. paritaprevir In our discussion earlier today, Oddný Harðardóttir noted that if the people were to be treated with aging, they would need to be added to hospitals by 1.7 to 2%. According to this budget, the increase is 0.4%. It is certainly an increase of 0.4%, but when you look at the relative number of people who need to make use of the ministry, that is no increase at all. $338 million in addition to services at the hospital. Got it. Is that sufficient for a senator? Is that consistent with a high-level dog? Senator Bjarts' future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. We focus on increasing the ministry and increasing the money to this class during the latter part of the terms. In the first phase, the sum is as good as any. A senator mentioned, but I also want to stress the importance of aging, the importance of prevention, and the people's health. We're uniting services and improving cooperation with rurals on home services and other resources. That's our big job. From demographic development, we know that aging issues will become major issues that we, of course, will emphasize. But I expect a variety of services, a collectiveized service in aging matters, a greater and better cooperation with my rural society and a greater weight in this category of languages during this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator responds, although she has not answered my question, "Is this enough for me? " But I'm good at it. A senator came into public health. Then let us examine them in the financial program. In 2017 they reach 8.1 billion. What's the extra where it's at? A senator speaks of the need? The next year, this will be 8.3 billion, and it will increase slightly from year to year, ending at $8.6 billion. The addition to human health as good as ever. A senator speaks of putting tremendous emphasis here is now nothing to cry out to. Let them be free to shop, so that public health and prevention money needs to be used as a matter of course. A senator came in. That's a very different discussion. Then I'd like to come into the environment later. A senator came in too. It is true that environmentally, the amount goes up by a billion years, and then it drops right back next year and then goes up slightly. Hv. The government has spoken a lot about some kind of environmental value to be met. She has talked about the value of meeting Paris, providing a plan for transport energy change. It's better to understand why. Councilmen and the highest. The rulers of this government that the environment should be over and over. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she believe that the Paris Convention will be fulfilled with this sum that goes up 1 billion and then quickly declines? Counts 'em out. A senator to reach the goals of transport energy when in the year 2025, with no more money than this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u66	A respectable president. I'm really happy that I did. A senator asks about public health, for this is my special interests, my people's health, and my prevention. I think prevention is a big financial issue, especially with senior citizens. During my last term, we had this great state-of-the-state public health policy that I too rejoiced greatly. Its first goal is that all rural society pursues public health policy. I think it's a big job to push the locals out in terms of public health. With regard to the government funds: Yes, I think that's enough because it's also the team's job to go to these public health projects and to improve cooperation with the health care department in each community, in nursing homes, in nursing services, in general. The individual population is organized, organized, and organized. I feel that the major task in public health is that each community is against its policies. Regarding the environment: That's right, we're increasing, and then we're reducing the increase. What is important in this discussion is that we are paying taxes. Those who pollute should pay. Our final question was, Am I reaching these goals? I'm gonna let myself be optimistic. This is policy, this is the big picture, a plan to follow policy. I'm gonna let me be optimistic about that, at least, we can take big steps this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u67	A respectable president. After reading through the program, examining economic growth and inflation predictions, and comparing expenses to various activities in 2017 with the last year under budget, in 2022, I find it difficult to discern the actual increases to various topics. In some areas, there is a clean and clear decline, a centennial decrease in the value of real value from 2017/2022. True, there is some increase in health care, but in view of that, for example. The policies and election focus on the future before election would be interested in whether this plan will provide what a bright future for voters with the emphasis on health structure, where it should end. Does this program really fill the future with election emphasis? That's what I'd be interested to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u68	A respectable president. The future course for elections was based on focusing attention on health matters based on responsibility. We have put tremendous emphasis on the process of developing a whole - souled policy and long - term view. That is the focus of a bright future. That's exactly what we're doing right now, we want to stress the health issues, to increase, that's done, but we're also realistic. We can't do a corner in a few months, as I've talked about so many times. We don't pick up everything and change in a year. We can't change everything in one year. I have strong hopes that once we have developed health - care policies, especially when we have a new hospital, a new hospital, we can define our ministry and adjust it. I hope so. What we want to do is to expand, do it out of responsibility, and still stay in the long run and define the ministry. We do not always want to talk about adding to a particular budget; we want to talk out of the goals and service we offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u69	A respectable president. Based on what I can read from a financial program, there are additional donations for health care, that is, the construction of Lands Hospital, a university hospital, buildings there, etc. Besides that, there is a resolution of contributions to the seminary. There is no real increase in money beyond construction, especially a building that had been scheduled for this election period. I would like to ask: Has the decision been made to build something more than when the decision was made and it had already been made? Besides, how can it be? A senator explained that the rest of the work is additional to health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u70	A respectable president. This isn't a different plan, it's the same plan. Our plans are to speed up the structure and place extra money in the construction of the national hospital. With regard to the other question, we are talking about more define the ministry. We want to shape our policy, to follow that goal, and to do it more effectively. We do not speak for certain amounts. We speak for them about the way our ministry is built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u71	President. I'd like to call the president's attention to the Supreme Court. Minister isn't in the house, and I'd like to ask what seats are. Here we are a five-year plan that is fundamental to the policy of a new government. It is unacceptable that the minister is not present. Next up to the roster is why. Harðardóttir This is unacceptable, except that he is in a Senate hall while speaking, and the remaining members of the House. I wish for the President that there will be a break in this discussion until he is in the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u72	A respectable president. I wanted to take this opportunity and come up here because of the comment. paritaprevir To report that a minister had to leave the house, Svavarsdóttir's daughter was with him. He's been here all along, and he's coming back. Whether this means waiting for him or what I wanted to say because I know there was an incident, and he had to go. He's got minutes, hopefully not more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u73	A respectable president. Admittedly, there may be times when an emergency makes you feel that you need to be elsewhere than where you are expected. Then perhaps it would be reasonable to discuss it with the president, and the president would have interrupted a meeting while a minister had done the business he's doing, which I don't know who. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson came in to see that the minister had been here all along. I just want to say, "But not what? It is, in effect, more important than tears than the fact that there has been a few minutes spent in discussions about economic policy and financial programs without the highest degree. The minister of finance would be subject to them and participate in them. That's what I ask of the highest. President that if there is a secretary in a house, there will be simply a recession on this meeting until the highest level. Minister's coming to the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u74	Madam President. I'll agree with this. This is shocking, especially in view of the highest. The secretary of finance accepts aquifer - related environment, the increased arrival of tourists, and especially good economic recovery after the collapse. was led by two o'clock. Councilmen who were then financiers and sit in the hall. I think the highest. A minister of finance may learn a lesson from this. A concierge of Oddný G. Harðardóttir who supports the motion of making a lunch break.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u75	Madam President. It's very unfortunate if the highest. Ministers need to clear the discussion. The usual is the highest. A minister discuss it in advance, as it were, so that he should be removed from 1st. about as big and as important a case as this is. This would have been desirable, but in view of what happened. I expect this to be a recession.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u76	Madam President. Hv. Congress officials should not constantly keep their eyes on the clock to keep track of the highest level. Ministerial servants are at each house when discussing matters in their area. I think it's a hell of a thing to do. A minister went from house to house without saying that I fully understood the possibility of such a situation. There may be various situations that make people think that they have to slip away. I don't think we're being unfair about it, it's probably on our part to interrupt the discussion while a minister has to run away. I'm assuming we have a recess until the highest level. Minister's coming back.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u77	Madam President. I agree with other members of Congress, I'm sure it's time to pause until I'm at the highest level. Economic and financial ministers can come and participate in the five-year financial discussions. It's not like we're having a little business here. I'd love to, if anything. A minister would be here while I give my speech. Here are some questions he may want to take the opportunity to answer right away or to answer at the end of the discussion. Like other senators before me, I wish we were waiting for the highest power. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u78	A respectable president. A special agreement was made here for the setting up of a 1st envelope. The financial programs where the number of speakers was limited and so on. I don't think it's the least that a minister can do the entire discussion, since it's probably a little shorter in view of standard discussions. So I support the proposal of the previous speakers and wish to take an early lunch break.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u79	Madam President. I'd like to be brought to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers made me, then, as an acting president, know that he would need from house to house for a short time for irreprehensible reasons, because of commitments he had long promised. I understood that it would be a relatively short time and that he would come right back after he had carried out his duties that he had taken. I just wanted to let you know that the highest. A financial and economic minister approached that acting president and informed him of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u80	Madam President. Despite what was presented here, I have to agree that it is normal for the minister of finance to sit under the discussion. He did so around a well - adjusted course, for I feel that a minister should follow his big affairs. No question about it. He has participated in discussions, and he has answered to us those in the government, which I love about the good I do. I have to agree that when the chairman of two classes is about to speak, it's only natural that we interrupt. If it's not a long time, we may have a cup of coffee for 15 minutes or something and a snack. It would be better if it weren't possible to do so. It doesn't make much difference to the program. It is important that all voices come to the ears of the secretary of finance itself, not just assistants or financial personnel in the sideroom. It is important that a minister can respond directly to what is asked here. [[The president calls.]] I assume both of those who will talk afterwards have some direct questions for the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u81	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for her word. It has been observed that the minister had to give up for a while. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then seated president, has confirmed it. However, I have to say that here we are having a discussion, this is not a routine discussion, but the arrangement which means that the members of the council here are emptying their speeches, this is not a traditional custom for members of Congress to return to the rosary. In view of the fact that we are making a deal with the president about a specific arrangement for the discussion, it is unacceptable, except that we interrupt until the minister is in the house because of the importance of our communication. I'm waiting for the highest. The president is now taking a short break in the meeting. I understand this is about 15 minutes or not a very long time. [[The president calls.]] I think it is by far the most natural thing to do that wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u82	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon reminded me of the very plans mentioned here, but at the time, I had a conversation with the highest level of conversation. The minister of finance who was talking about this, but there was another plan. Then there was to be before and after dinner and so on, but this is an example of how the lack of organization in the Aldulis program can change the criteria we arrange for our time. Since this was so, I feel that it is only natural to take a brief recess until the minister returns.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u83	A respectable president. It is natural that at the highest rate, it is completely unpleasant. The secretary of finance cannot see fit to sit in these discussions. We in our memory have already made a contract with us for speaking, so it's really amazing to see this disrespect, if I'm going to say it right now. If it's about 40 minutes or an hour, we can totally take a break for dinner right now. So there is no objection. The president has already received, after a very good conversation with the council presidents of the smaller section and the greater part, permission for an evening meeting. I don't see any reason why we'll interrupt this meeting and wait until we get to the top. The minister of finance comes into the house, simply because we made a deal with our talk time to have a place to speak with him, in his presence, not to be able to speak in such a way as the empty room or to the deaf. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u84	Madam President. I agree with them. Councilmen who have noted that this was a session for a talk. There is a point that is of utmost importance in this context. This means that only two members of each body can address this discussion. They can speak only once for ten minutes. This is an extremely short period of time to discuss matters as important as the financial plan of one government to five years of age. That's why I feel that there's a spontaneous and normal requirement for us to interrupt a meeting while we're at the highest level. Secretary of finance is not in a house. Otherwise, you ask yourself: " What is being negotiated for a talk period if it is not even possible to assume the highest level? Ministers will be there during that short discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u85	Madam President. As mentioned, the highest has been reported. The financier of legal pasturage or has had to run a town. It's a controversial discussion. I think it's time for the highest. President to demonstrate the flexibility in meeting the members of Congress's wishes to postpone the discussion. Otherwise, the members of Congress will just discuss a meeting administration and fill in with that discussion. It may not be a good plan to have to do that. It's just that it's such a natural wish to the highest. The minister of finance was showing respect for all speakers in these discussions, not to be mentioned among the speakers. I would very much appreciate that Mrs. President would respond to those wishes of senators whom I find very fair, and unfortunate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u86	A respectable president. Once again, the situation is that we speak into the air without having any responses from the highest level. President. It's not like we're asking for the highest power. Secretary of finance is flying to the country from Kamchatka, that we are going to postpone a meeting until night, or that we are keeping the hall speaking until another week. We have a natural and reasonable requirement in the spirit of an agreement that was made with the government opposition that she agreed to, with great tact and skill, should be able to accept her right to discuss the matter. I am, for example. There should not be a list of these things, expected for bitter resentment, but part of that agreement is at the height. Minister sit in the hall. It may well be, but it simply shows a sense of urgency. [[The president calls.]] Will we not try to have this workplace, where there is always talk of new work practices and less willingness so that smallness can be shown?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u87	A respectable president. I'm just saying, sounds like, all the other people here have talked about, of course, that people can have something else to do at 4:15 on a Wednesday afternoon than sit in a councilroom. I don't think that any of us would necessarily expect to be discussing the financial programme right now, but we'll just move it when it turns out there's going to be a discussion. When the program was arranged, the minister was probably joined in some of the plans. That is why it would probably have been for a president to consider his incursions. But it still makes me a little nervous. As mentioned earlier, we are now making a presentation of a talk period. The point is to do the same tomorrow as we continue to discuss these matters. So may we expect ministers to be out of their best interests rather than in the communication we negotiate with the government to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u88	Madam President. We'll talk about the government budget for the next five years. After a discussion of the past few days, about the first section of this three - fold new law on public financial matters, it is likely that it is becoming unsettled to begin witnessing on the law and on the organization that they make around the government's financial affairs. But it cannot be avoided in the first place when it comes to what the game is made for and what lies ahead for the process. There is a large document on the financial program in 2018/2022. There are lines to the aims for the survival and economy of the public and for the public. Plans for development are also being made and paid for the same person for the next five years. The strategy helps to identify policy agendas for both topic areas and litigators, and aims to establish that the Council is a source of information when it deals with the financial programme, which is the focus for the overall state of the state of the economy in the long term. In this context, it is important to point out that goals, standards, and actions are set for each subject class. This new arrangement - which most of us are dealing with for the first time - will likely be the first time that the process takes place in a complete circle, i.e. to promote financial policy, and, on its basis, financial planning, and finally, budgeting in the fall of the same government and council - this is a turning point. Madam President. It's still a process of modeling and pinching. The process time line, for example, is not fully in harmony with the laws on public finances. Of course, we recognize this explanation, it was the last fall of elections, and the present government did not take over until January 11 of this year. On the other hand, government laws on public finance assume that in the spring and then, in the fall or early autumn, governments will be relegated to a financial policy, followed by the spring plan by April 1 and finally by a financial bill based on a broad range of budgets for the current spring strategy. It is hoped that many of us will find it quite difficult to get involved in this new system and see how all these new features work together. At least I can tell you that it's about myself. After all, when the new process is brought together, there will be no doubt that it will be possible to improve work practices and perspective in the activities of the General Assembly when it comes to the financial affairs of the State. But we're not just talking about a new thing here today. We're talking about political emphasis on money. Health and welfare were at the top of most people, if not all, in the leading of the election in the autumn. This emphasis is expressed in the government covenant, and in the work of the financial programme, the priorities of the government's affairs for these classes are evident. Health costs increase most, 22% in actuality. The focus is on the construction of the new Land Hospital, which will finally be completed in the following years after long and painful waits for both patients and staff. Other factors include reduction of patient payment, increased emphasis on mental health through increased psychological services, including in schools, and in general, the availability of a variety of mental - health services improved. Then there will be investing in aging services and waiting lists. There is also considerable increase in welfare issues. In all, costs for health care, other than health care, have increased by about 13% over the period, or the equivalent of $1 billion. These include a review of microenergy pensions, increased reimbursement of employment and occupational resources for disability, also the induction of user - controlled personal assistance, review of the job market for the elderly, increase in maternity income and flexibility at the end of the elderly. We're also talking about strengthening a treatment plan for children and adolescents, taking steps to work on children's poverty, a double welcome for hostilities, and a greater welcome for those who come here on their own roads and get asylum. Above all, progressive steps to solve the housing problem. We can also mention a point in this strategy that is expected to increase the amount of money needed to transport and law enforcement for the last term. There certainly is more to be done. But as has been repeated, the focus is placed on health and health issues in this program. In education, more money is being put before the last term. For high school, among other things, financial allowances are expected from the anticipated reduction in the number of students due to a shorter study course to a student's test. They're promoting the university, though, we're not achieving what normally happens in OECD countries, considering overall progress, i.e. Progress and special schools. There is a piece of work to be done. I imagine that the college funding will be somewhat discussed in the next few days, and that's fine. Among the serious features are school integration and a review of the calculus used. In the present system, there is an incentive to increase the number of students, to reduce the number of courses, to simplify them and to expand them rather than to consider quality and innovation. Governments do not shape a policy of the academic contributions they want to see, and they finance, but rather let their schools play free from the money they have available for each occasion and then as a model. As a result, the most expensive study will be cut off, regardless of the need for a community education. I reiterate my opinion and wish for the discussion of education over the next few days and weeks. Madam President. In view of the times in which we live, I and others have come into the picture here as to how unusual the conditions we now live are in connection with this work. In addition, it is appropriate to mention that for the future a change in schedule is needed to allow more time for a discussion of the state's budget in the spring, rather than just a fall from the year on the contribution of a budget bill. Finally, Madam President. This plan reflects our emphasis on putting the welfare ahead of the money. This will help us to improve the health and social services and provide at the same time a plan for the next five years, which should be supported by economic management during the run-in period and thus contribute to a decrease in growth, the largest interest in the country's households.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u89	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. She mentioned education as well as the NPA. I'd like to ask her a little about it, first of all, the differences between the communities. At least it's gone. for humans who do not share their opinion of what things are costing and what it takes to do so. It was such that the government paid 20%, it's up to 25%, but the rural population says it has to be around 30%. According to the bill, it's 1,336 million. That means if we don't meet the rurals, we're gonna have a little bit more than 270 million. K. We certainly received unsigned documents that included. it was said of going into the gray areas between state and rural society. I feel that the attitude displayed here in the financial program may be just another mail that is kept as gray. It's not resolved. It says on page 18. It is noted that there is an increase in the number of disabled persons and that consistent with the NPA, i.e. individual service will need to be increased. It makes you wonder if this is going to make ends meet if we're going to legalize the help. It has been necessary by the European Union that funds have to follow that induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. It's just the right thing to do. A senator points out. I know it's my plan to increase the number of people who use this service each year as a plan. I can't help but say that this agreement is that it's not exactly mystified. I don't trust myself to stand here, to reason on it, I can only repeat what I've been assured of, that it will be done and we'll be able to do it. In terms of precise implementation, it is one of the factors that we will have the opportunity to ask the relevant professional secretary about and, on the other hand, to set up a meeting of committees in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u91	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This may be what we have to face, and this money is not expected. If people who have the right to help such a thing are expected to increase this interval. That's a lot of concern to me, and that's why I'm asking. It's true that we can ask the Minister tomorrow, but the text is at least. it is not as clear as it would suggest that this is not expected. Hv. A senator also entered high school, school, and college. We've only talked about them today. I must say, I was very disappointed to see that the cumulative cuts in high school are 1,700 million. K. The senator suggested that there should be room within the school. In view of this plan, I cannot see how it should develop. The money from the schools'budget was not to be cut off, as was the case when the study was cut short. We know, and we've heard of colleges that are repeatedly in big trouble. Not only are there a need for instruments and other items but the funds that have been put into it, e.g. What the budget put before Christmas, was up in the nose of cats. It was just to satisfy some people's most painful hunger. We need to call for a financial committee how that money was given. We'll know. Like high school students who say they have to cut courses, I am deeply concerned about high school. [[The president calls.]] But I'm asking about the promise of the shortcut, that it has such an operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u92	Madam President. I appreciate that question and answer from what. Senator. I don't know if we're looking at it completely from our point of view. When I look at the numbers and also lay down the fact that a three - year student study to study the student's test will reduce the normal number of students, the increase in each student is in comparison with these figures. This is the case with the improvement, so to speak. It's not for the student base that's inside the schools, it's not making money. In fact, the plan also makes it clear that hopes will arise in order to create the space that is believed to be missing into school. [[Up front.]] That's how I see it. This is an increase in each student.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u93	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke about the health and education system. On one hand, building up and perhaps maintaining housing was referred to as a set of health - care budgets. Then I'd like to ask you how much is being added to your health if we subtract from that structure. It would be helpful for me to know how much health care itself, apart from the musculoskeletal needs for housing and maintenance, will come about. So about education. Yeah, maybe it's a little bit more than last term. The university gets 6.7% in the entire season compared to the 2017 budget. Plan 2022 is 6.7% higher than budget 2017. This is not a major increase in five years. That, too, is what happens. A senator came in, research and innovation. This is an increase of 3.4% in five years from 2017. I'd like to ask, "What is the rise to the lawsuits when economic growth rates vary from 14 to 1019%, depending on the year you look at them? "
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u94	Thank you. A senator resists. I want to be there before I come to the real extreme or the first question to point out - because I feel that it's been mattered quickly now, that an investment in a new hospital that is finally happening is not real because it's been talking about him for so long and/or because he's been talking about it so long that the investment in the health system is not real - that while the money is spent in it when they're not involved. It's placed in key priority now because it's just not allowed to wait. But on the question of the real-life increase, the hospital's Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital services are taken away, and when they are withdrawn, I believe, according to the Ministry expert, their real growth is 15% outside. Then with regard to the second question, how the increase was 31.74%... [[Up front.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. But these are the reals, the economy numbers. This is an increase. We're in a hurry. They're putting on this. There's always more to be done. As I mentioned earlier, I think that in view of the emphasis on health and welfare issues presented in the state - of - the - state strategy, there is a chance that people would want to study the academic language and discuss how to work out the best of these matters. I look forward to that discussion. She'll be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u95	A respectable president. I asked what is beyond the increase in GDP. That means it's getting bigger. The level is lower than the economy. In terms of hospital service, there is an overall increase in total in the period 2017,22022, 19,8%. Considering that the service is 15%, building to the hospital would be 4.8% between them. I allow myself to feel somewhat low in the hospital construction figures. It would be nice to learn more about whether extramarital contributions are available outside the ministry themselves and building up, which, of course, is necessary and has been necessary for a long time, that is why I take it only out of parentheses to see the evolution of the service stage itself. If it's 15%, it comes with land production and it's good. But that means that the structure is only 4.8% of the number, which I think is a little low.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator again resists. I have to admit, this time my colleague is out of it. The money board has put me on certain phone calls because I was going to do a lot of good work and have hot information from the Ministry. I'm kind of going to have to pass on a more precise calculation. But if I may, by permission, I look forward to cooperation and a conversation. A senator on the matter in the days to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u97	Madam President. I'd like to discuss briefly that when it was decided that this discussion would not take place on Tuesday, but on Wednesday and Thursday, I spoke to the top of the discussion. The chairman of the council told me that I had promised to read Passiusum at six o'clock on that day and asked if it would not affect the meeting. The President convinced me that it would not cause trouble. I repeated it at the highest. 1st Vice President here earlier, and he told me that everyone understands. Now that I have returned, I want to quote the psalm a little bit, although I am not comparing myself to the one I was writing about. Or where he was chastised, The ones that never won? I'll have the President finish a psalm by the Ólína Andrésdóttir: [[The president calls.]] I believe and flee to you. That my trust is strength, I'll be safe back All anxiety fails. [[Foreground on, Amen.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u98	Madam President. The government's budget of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson is a betrayal of voters and the public of the country. It is a betrayal of young people as well as of old ones. The plan has nothing to do with campaign promises. A restoration and a bright future that they wanted to paint when they felt that they were meant to be equal in the campaign. Where is the structure promised in this program? Where can we find the reasonable balance? Where can economic stability be found? Where are the actions to promote social stability and peace at work? The answer to all the questions is "No one. " That is where the government of Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, gives way to nothing else. In fact, taxes are reduced in time for economic growth and thawing. Does anyone know it? High-value tax was reduced in 2007 from 14% to 7%. There were economic mistrials in baloney charities. A similar game is now being played by a reduction in the general value of taxes from January 1, 2009. Tourists are an added form of spells. It is important to meet the costs of their arrival and to strengthen the infrastructure in this country as well as the driving process. Councilmen and the highest. Counsellors are always talking about. But the localities are not to be overlooked in the discussion of the infrastructure. They have not benefited from the increasing flow of tourists compared to government funds through the valuable tax system. Care must be taken to ensure that rural communities benefit from an increase in the value of the tax. The largest taxing team in rural society is operating basic and play-school. There we see a serious lack of teachers; now that government finally increases its income by tourists and has more time to respond, it continues to reflect the huge financial problems people face in rural areas. There are cold greetings to a new government. When the financial program was introduced, the big headlines were: a 20% increase to the health system. They forgot to tell you in the process that most of the increase is the construction of a new land hospital. Of course, I'm glad to build a new hospital. But who would have thought before elections that with a promise of the hospital construction, the hospitals in Akureyri and the Land Hospital should be cut down? Even the added extension to the hospital is not enough to meet the growing number of patients, much less enough to work on the lists, the necessary purchases, or the maintenance. This means surgery on the health system. Was that promised for elections? A new health - care system will be started on May 1. The change means that you have a temperature of less than 70. K. Yearly roof for patient credit participation for health care, hospitals, specialists, imaging, research and training. The change is largely financed by the costs of those who need much health care for those who need less service. This means that for the most share of those requiring extended services, the costs will increase considerably before roofing is reached. We agreed to the law to give the local health minister, now at the highest level. A government minister of education promises that the roof for general patients would be reduced to 50 levels. K. and financed the budget for 2017. It's a fraud. The organization wants health care to be free and spoke for elections that the patient's credit parties would be reduced in resources. The Conspiracy Directive for the first phase is now being treated by a health committee and arranges that health care be free, the medical services outside the medical facility will not exceed 35 of you. K. each year, the funds companies of the elderly and the disability of dentists will be reduced. Now the load of payment is to be recovered by bringing the weight on those who seldom go to a doctor of long - suffering who has been carrying too much loads. The fact that patients in general pay higher fees may lead to further delay in going to the doctor at the appropriate costs later. It is even more expensive for society if patients are drawn to medical and other health care services. If you have enough money, you don't have to think twice. On the other hand, there is a plague of income to be done. Build a five - new nursing home during the turnoff period with 261 new nurses. This plan was in the plan of the previous government and is still running its course. The present government provides no solution to the problem of the nation's aging age in its near future government. The planned increase accounts for only half of the expected additional need for new health care until 2020. Thus, this increase is far below the expected need for the period of time covered by the plan. In addition, there is no signal in the programme that additional funds are needed for nursing and rehabilitation during the period despite the ongoing management problems of many institutions in this field. If it happens, the people will report domestic operations. Put him in the state's arms for failure. These measures are now discussed in rural areas across the country. To face housing problems, it seems to me that I keep a promise made to the previous government on collective agreements but that is not to be seen on the figures in the plan. House support drops right in 2019 and drops out the period. House - to - house support is reduced in the growth reform system and the reference height is maintained throughout the period, which means that there will be a reduction in the number of people who receive interest improvements and will further reduce the overall role of the system. This is especially true of those with low and medium incomes. The house - to - house reform system seems to be supposed to weaken, which is very bad for tenants, but it includes people, adults and children, most likely to live in a material deficiency. This image does not improve when looking at child - welfare expenses. As in the past few years, childhood reforms continue to draw real meaning together. In 2013 and 2016, families with child - reformed families reduced by fewer than 12 thousand, and financial programs will continue to decrease over the next few years. Children's expenses have added to the real value of the past four years, and they have seen nothing more than to reduce the support of family members. In recent years the numbers of children have declined. This situation, along with the rapid aging of the nation, has a profound effect on the future age combination and a reasonable long - range view of the economic situation in which economic advantages can have a positive effect on the future, such as higher child benefits enjoyed by more families, longer birthfowls, and housing systems that serve young people. None of this can be found in financial policy or government plan. On the contrary, the systems that benefit best young children are sick. The same is true of education. According to university drivers, there is no additional contribution to a college until 2020, but that addition will not be sufficient to achieve the OECD average gain. The financial benefits presented in the high school system due to reduced study periods should not be used to improve the quality of high school education with a wide range of educational skills, supporting services, or better access to national studies. However, this was promised, but it is now a betrayal. Raised free income market for 25-year-old pensioners. K. every month to 100 you. K. in the number of prisoners between 2018 and 22022. An increase in job income market is only useful to professional pensioners who earn more than 25 of you. K. But there are only about 13% of seniors who usually have jobs. According to the plan, changes in social security disability laws should be made. However, these changes are not to be seen until the year 2019 and 2020, as defined by an additional budget. The government stresses workability assessments instead of microenergy assessments. In preparation for a special discussion earlier this year on exceptional microorganism, I studied two reports on the results of a job assessment in the United Kingdom. Another was the heading: Don't make things worse. The other was entitled: Is it possible to serve or qualify for a job? Both studies provide significant results of the poor effects of functioning assessments on those with impaired function due to psychiatric disorders and chronic illness. V.E.G. During the days, the prime minister happily said that once the government has lowered the value tax to 22.5% on January 1, 2018, the general step here is the lowest in the North countries. But before we say yebbi and hurri, let's get some answers to whether the level of welfare services will be here, too, in the lowest of the North countries. It would be almost intended to achieve the good social equation as a characteristic of the North countries, which is paid for by incremental income taxation and a powerful value tax system. The North countries are the only communities that have survived the efforts of liberalism; much of it has been controlled, and right men have not changed their tax systems or well - being, rarely, when they have gained power. That's where we should be headed. In turn, it was more equal and just. Budna Bjarni of Benediktsson's financial and financial program leads to an Icelandic community in the opposite direction and betrays the people in the country who expected others to follow aesthetizing campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u99	Madam President. Here we will discuss a financial plan for the next five years, both ideas of income gain but also the proposed exchanges between lawsuits. I'd like to say in the beginning that I think there's a great need for the state's income system to be revised from the viewpoint on the other hand, that the state fund - available to us, we don't exist for him - is living up to the social projects that we think he should be under, but also from the goal that the system is transparent, efficient, and loyal to the equation. I don't think the changes announced to the IRS are in that direction. If we consider how inequities have developed in Iceland, as in other Western communities, the fact is that the most inequities are growing in terms of possessions, not income. Councilmen have often talked about the extra equation and have looked at them for money. In fact, the increase in equations achieved at the time is rather shrinking. But when we look at the property, the situation is that the richest 10% in Iceland owns 73% of all the wealth, the richest 20% own 90% of the wealth. However, there is still no debate about whether we believe that the tax system we have today contributes to achieving an equation when it comes to dividing wealth in our community. Then I testify to the idea of taxing the capital, wealth, capital gains, thus ensuring a better foundation for a state fund, while reaching the increased targets for the equation. I also refer to what has regularly been discussed in this room, to resource bills, to fishing costs, which are important to ensure this equation, since there will be huge revenues. But it is also about the public getting a fair drop from common resources. The tax changes presented here do not serve this goal. On the other hand, I give the suggestion that there is a suggestion to raise the carbon account. I think it's an important step in bringing in green taxes. I would have liked to see further changes in that direction but to express satisfaction by that change. Of course, I was as surprised as the travel agency was to see a suggestion that it will be taken to the top level of the valuable tax system because before the election, it was not spoken in a way to form an independent party, which directly involves the election's election policies that the taxation of the article will not be increased. So I'm not surprised that the tourism service is surprised to see this conclusion. There are many other ways to strengthen the government's income agencies without the public taking hold of the country. In fact, we should look to ways in which we can guarantee an even greater degree of equality by taxing the budget and by improving the terms of the worst, which contribute to society. I made up a subject for the Senate earlier today of people with 300 yous. K, even 260 yrs. K. in the total pay and doesn't make ends meet. That's the group of people on the lowest salary, disability, elderly, that we should focus on improving the terms and making sure that we can make ends meet at the available guidelines that the government has published on the website of the Ministry of Health. These are the big lines in how we manage our government budget, i.e. where we get our income and how we change the quality. I have to say, the tax changes presented here, except for the carbon, do not necessarily reflect great vision, they do not show the vision that we want to ensure an additional equation in the tax system. They show no real change in our thinking when it comes to the way we earn money for our joint work. I'm sorry. But it may not surprise us if we look at the budget. They have been primarily discussed today, but as we have seen, the increase in this five - year program in many areas of speech is being announced. I've been talking about school issues, academics. We have the approved policy of the Scientific and Technical Council where contributions at university are expected to reach an average of 2016 OECD and an average of 2020. I hear what you're saying. The head of the board will come up here and protect that it will be done by reducing the number of college students, such as the highest level. Secretary of finance said earlier today. Downing college students! I see what. The members of the management team are listed here after the drop-off of high school, which I believe was contrary to law in high school, which assumes that the schools have a professional means of offering different courses, professional freedom. It was the signature of the 2008 law, but it was decided one - sided to shorten the student's study for three years, saying that the savings it would use to strengthen the schools. But no, it is not useful because donations for high school are being canceled, suggesting that the number of students is decreasing. Then it should not be used to improve the founding services, improve the quality, the savings that we will benefit from reducing the number of students, regardless of what we think of them. Although the chapter on high school is a major part of mental health, I don't feel that the subject should be discussed, e.g. Psychological services are a normal part of high school career so that students can seek such services. However, there is much talk of too much disfellowshipping, and the research we have is not seen to show that it is the most common source of psychological causes. No, it's called cutting in academics. It has been noted that when a new Hospital Building is removed, the contributions for hospital service are not supported by the growing number of patients, which we celebrate, and we agree that it is an enormously important matter. But we must not forget the management of health care. I made it a subject of earlier today that approved the Council on the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Empire, a Museum of Nature that is to be adopted as the ideal but not found in the program, apart from the fact that it is widely said that protecting nature's mines is important. It also speaks of large - scale language campaigns. Should it be taken from other studies? Because only if we are going to take it out of other studies, take it out of competitive funds, or anything like that. Visitors have been made here as a subject. Funds for interest should remain unchanged. High - scale changes in the housing system are under way by making financial decisions without providing a vision of how exactly to support the government. We have a vision of a future when it comes to building a rented house through the existing housing products. But repeatedly, during the last term and now, growth improvements have been impaired without political discussion. I think it's interesting when we look at the challenges of today's housing market, making contributions to housing, and making donations that are not directly affected. We're running out of time. Finally, I have to make a subject of how we are going to achieve this financial program. It is now planned that the committee's committee should get this strategy for review. The committees have kindly suggested that we need to look at stage images, evaluate quality standards, our reviews should be consistent in structure, and certainly need to give tips on matters that are not yet met. I don't think they understand what it's all about, writing the recommendation we were at least sent to an economic and business committee. Here we are developing a political agenda, how we will earn money to care for community and social projects. That was chosen in the fall. Here, all of us have vastly different viewpoints. And we get some strange suggestion that if we do not agree on the political emphasis that appears in the document, we should look at some standards and scenarios and let it be mentioned, probably in a footnote. Madam President. I don't think the job in this case is a good idea, ever since financialism came in here and work around it wasn't too well handled, to form up when it came to the role of the Economic and Business Committee. Here comes a financial program, and we get some strange income - language recommendations to look at the standards and scenarios. [[The president calls.]] I don't think people realize that this is a high political document that separates different categories at the General Assembly. We are setting an enormously important example here, and I am making strong comments to this work of the Generals, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u100	A respectable president. We'll talk about a financial plan for the next five years. Looking ahead, this gives us an opportunity to see what the world will be like at the end of the plan, what it will look like in 2022. In terms of national interest, the cumulative economic growth will be 19.4% from this year, if 2017 is included. The plan set out here depends a lot on this economy, but the policy says, by permission of the President: ▪ If the growth of national expenditures becomes smaller than the forecasts used here, the real growth of the state's income may also be reduced, and it might be difficult to follow up plans for the improvement in Kingdom funds. This is a top priority in this financial program; it says it is very clearly and clearly and that it reports itself. A financial strategy is based on government financial policy, which is still unsolved, which says, by permission of presidents: Similarly, public expenses, apart from interest charges, are expected to grow to a large extent in terms of VRF name growth. If we just look at the numbers that the budget gives us, there's a difference between 2017 and 2022.1%. If by plan 2022, the total budget would be 12.1% higher than this year; the growth of the state's official budget: 12.1%. The GDP is at the same time 19.4%. The financial policy says it doesn't quite fit together. Figuratively speaking, it would mean that all grammatical areas would only be increased by 19.4% or followed by GDP. But we're setting things straight, we're setting priorities. Then it's good to review the priorities of the government. It is mostly provided, with the exception of general reserves and special arrangements for medicine and medicine, or increased by 53.8%. There are also increasing labour markets and unemployment by 30%, disability and the affairs of disabled persons by 26.5%, community - care services 27.5%, hospital service 19.8%, tourism 23.3%, and several other teams. Interestingly, when you add to some of the topic areas, others are reduced. These include research, innovation and knowledge, rural areas, agriculture, environment, high school, university, the affairs of the elderly, and housing. All these metabolites are reduced in terms of economic growth and some in terms of 2017, e.g. is housing support in 2022 14% below 2017. The problem then is that inflation forecasts are like predicting economic growth. In order to achieve expectations for spending goals, money must be obtained beyond the economy, since inflation will just eat up the economy. In any case, there has to be an all - out expansion by reducing interest. They're going to make enough of this schedule, if that's what they're looking for. I'd like to change the paces and talk about the Senate's surveillance role in the financial process. Public financial laws require that financial policy be overcome by financial advisers. But now it is so remarkable that the nine - page paper document that special treatment by experts is the financial policy, but the financial agenda, over 360 pages, does not receive special treatment, as a financial conference is done by financial policy. The highest narrative of the council, the person who has all the basis and information, is the party to be monitored by the council, i.e. The Ministry of finance. It has all the information on the case and the food of the council and its surveillance agencies on the information to which the Parliament should then be used to monitor that executive. That's very strange. But what's remarkable is that under the civil law, policy should be developed for government policy in finance. There is needed information for financial advice and for its review. This information is not contained in financial policy but is now presented in the financial agenda. It is only too late for financial counsel and its review, but under the government laws on government finance, financial advice is a key factor in the quality control of the body to be carried out by the Parliament. Thus, there was far too short time and insufficient information. Based on financial agendas, there were a number of demands, and the review of financial advisers. Then I can imagine what the board would have said about the IRS compared to an automatic fluctuation in the economy. Now, one of the main campaigns, except maybe the Independence Party, reorganization in resource matters, especially because of the ocean's wealth. But in this financial program, there is nothing to be found on that election. It says, by permission of the President: Then, a planned review of exchange for the use of common marine resources is aimed at ensuring an increased agreement on the marine economy. The Independence Party won. Everyone else lost. All other classes. Citizens of the land. System changes are not expected in the treatment of marine resources in these financial programmes. Such changes are not expected in financial policy either. There is absolutely nothing to say that the result will be more at peace. We all know what that word means in the Independence Party dictionary. A restoration and a bright future lost. Everyone else lost. What, then, do we have here? We have a financial plan for the reduction of debt and just one other; subsidies with interest payments from banks, and continued to exist. I have to ask myself, " Would any of the groups that would have trusted me to vote with this plan? ' Seriously: How does it happen, or, in the case of Bright Future, campaign emphasis? How is this being fulfilled in the government covenant? Is this setting of priorities in health care? Is there a cutback in the education system? Does this mean that there is increased power in transportation? This is some newcomer, Madam President. As shown in the case of what? The chairman of a budget board actually provides the scope needed to build up and is the honesty that would have been well held before elections. The possibility that we have in the economy is to increase our income, even without raising taxes, to attack this essential structure and even collect into the cable, e.g. with measures to reduce growth costs. The reality is that there's a tax reduction in interest. Communicators of financial policy warned against such things. In a leap of increase in taxes and downstairs, they decline. It is the so - called automatic fluctuation. You may easily find it more expensive to delay building or maintenance than to be saved by using the same amount in the construction of wood. In some cases it is possible to save more by building up than by paying off debts in some cases. Hard conditions in the knowledge community can cause a leak of wisdom, which may take years to recover. Transporting systems can do a lot of damage - lives can be measured. And finally: The health system, the so - called top priority of the government, is based on Pirata's struggle and the Conspiracies and the Left Green in budget making last December. That battle brought the Land Hospital and the Medical Hospital into debt to the present government. The so - called top priority is little more than a structure that had long since been established and committed and the same situation. Now I know the highest. The minister of finance is an honest man. I'd like to know if this financial plan will live up to the expectations of his team before election. I would also be interested in hearing the president of Birt's future explain how this plan achieves its election interests. I may be able to hear it in the history of the highest. Health Minister tomorrow. But, dear Icelanders. During the next five years, health care, education, transportation, welfare status, and so forth will be maintained. If we get through the next five years without getting hit by a financial collapse, we'll be fine. The question is, was it what you chose with your vote last October?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for his speech, and he would like to mention some of the points he came in on. He even pointed. shelters should be appropriately reduced over time. The explanation is that the State makes a special contribution of $3 billion to build $2,300 apartments in cooperation with ASI. We will do so this year and the next year, and that plan will end in 2019. That's why. Nothing is being reduced in other areas. This mission just ends. For information on taxes and possessions, it is well to be informed that when considering the overall period, there is not really a change in taxation, but there is a tax donation, as it has rightly been suggested, i.e. The general step is being improved and the number of exceptions is reduced. I think it is very important to bear in mind the committee's highest priority. A seafaring minister is now making peace in the fishing road. I don't think there will be any particular chance that you will not agree to change the system so that it will be a marketing system instead of the system we now have. It's very important. I believe that most of the people here at the General Assembly and those who work in this article will understand that. I'd like to finally see that we're also planning to increase tax returns with increased monitoring and combating the black economy that I've put as top priority in my Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u102	Madam President. There are certainly explanations for some changes there, and this one is very quiet. There may be other explanations, which may be more pronounced in the budget, since we can better see the exchange. It's on the topic index so hard to see the type where and why it comes in. The tax returns to the state as a share of GDP to 2019◯22022. That's what I'm referring to with a tax reduction in the season. During the last term, an attempt was made to make peace with the Constitution. I don't think there's anything simpler in terms of reconciliation than the greeting system. I'm not optimistic, but it'd be great if we could make it. All classes spoke except the Independence Party saying that good changes should be made in the greeting system. Most well - organized groups also agreed that the Constitution could be changed, but during the last term there was no reconciliation largely due to the expertise of one rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u103	Madam President. I don't share pessimism. Senator. I think there are good ways that we can settle the matter here at the council even though I realize that then we need to change our work practices and maybe mainly our attitude about things and start our jobs with the thought that we will agree at the end and not rule out the possibility that we can get compromise. In most cases, if one is going to make peace, the other will not accomplish everything but have something to say. I'm optimistic about making up the highest reconciliation commission. A sea emissary will bear a name with a sledge and that we will see here a more just system, with which both sailors, dignitaries, and what is most important to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u104	A respectable president. I don't want to call it pessimism. I really hope this works and something happens. I'm calling it a bit realistic, since history tells us otherwise. But now it is full of new members of Congress, and it may have some effect. But I think we need to examine all these matters in a complete way and realize that there's a difference, yes. The question is, Should one category be more than the rest, especially when the group does not have clean portions?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u105	A respectable president. One of the big challenges ahead is that Iceland is a competitive community and that there are plenty of opportunities for young people to get on course and a variety of employment choices. We want our economy to earn a well - paying job and the welfare community to prosper and grow. The level of education in the nations has much to do with their prosperity and opportunities. For the long term, the best results from education and knowledge. With the knowledge community, self - confidence and courage increase. That's why we want Iceland to be competitive colleges that are preparing the country's future for the challenges ahead and on the way to an international community. A five - year national budget has been reported, and in many respects the prospects for an Icelandic community are bright. National interest is good, continuing economic growth, high professional level, government debt is down and left behind in the business balance. In some ways, an ideal situation. So I ask, "Why is it that there's no investment in the future, i.e. university, like all the other control countries around us? According to the plan, there is a very small increase in donations from 2019◯22022. I still find it very difficult to believe that this is government educational policy, especially in view of the level of pressure in society. When I was looking at these tables, I wondered if there was a mistake in the table for college. But then I found out that it's not. If we look at the real growth every year, it's only 1.6%. I know it can be very difficult for the executives to hear this plan, especially in the absence of a view for the university. In some ways, it is the case with certain setbacks. I say a comeback because in the leading of the election, Iceland was determined to achieve an average OECD in the terms of budgetary contributions for each university student. The budget is not consistent with the promises of the election and is far removed from the scientific and technical policies of achieving the OECD average and the Northern national average in 2020. It is evident that with this schedule and with an unchanged number of college students, Iceland will eventually reach the OECD average, much less the Northland average. According to the head of the University of Iceland, the only way to get the averages, according to the plan, is to make a large reduction in the number of students at the university. Is that what we want? Do we really want to be with them and to be able to compare with a similar state that requires a reduction in the number of university students? In addition, in the plan, Hustor is an education program to make a contribution to the university. A significant part of this small increase is going to the construction of the Icelandic language for the first few years. This is not to be expected of a significant rise in college development until after the house is built in 2020. I think there's a little illusion about having this investment in The House of New York's class in this program. Actually, it's an investment. When we consider these figures, we are deceived by the fact that we are finding it a little harder to recognize the management plans. I'm just coming to the head of the University of Iceland. He says there's a cutback ahead. The future vision offered by the government is reducing study and study guides. That is why we are discussing an application at the research university. The second must be considered in this context, whether the five - year budget is in accordance with the government's administration covenant. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: The government will contribute to the development of community infrastructure, transport, health and education systems, and a powerful and competitive business life for citizens all over the country. Sounds good. Promises. Also, the government covenant, with permission of the president, says: The university should be supported by maintaining quality and meeting international competition as cooperation and coordination between Icelandic and scientific institutions are increasing. The school system model has to be reviewed with regard to the different costs and diversity of the student group. It all sounds really good. But you are surprised not to see it in the five-year national budget. I ask government officials: "How can there be so much inconsistencies in the Constitution and the five-year budget? It is indeed tragic to note how little future the government's vision is in this case. Over the next few years, we will see great progress in computer technology, artificial intelligence, and robotic suppression. The proportion of such activities will increase, and they will depend on knowledge and education. If there isn't an investor at the university, Iceland will be drawn back. Every year is important here. Thus, the five-year national budget is a battle for Iceland's university and science community. A respectable president. After one of the greatest economics of Iceland's history, the university in Iceland has failed to show the dignity and respect it deserves. We are not preparing for the future with this aimless approach. It is still an opportunity to make changes in the budget and to encourage anyone who can contribute to such an event - a university level that is badly done in comparison with all the countries that we would like to compare with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u106	Madam President. In the last election, the right administration of the forward and independent party was made in a decisive manner, despite unprecedented growth in the economy. Why did this happen? Yes, people slipped, even. To recall that in time to come, the foundation was not well cared for. The poor were not divided into just enough, and they were not well cared for. Despite all our resources and countless possibilities, we do not have new opportunities to stand equal to our neighbors in the North countries. So, after the election's assurances, many excitedly waited for this piece of cash, but unfortunately, that is disappointing. All too little injected into a poor health system, and we continue to be semisaturs of the North countries at the time of each university student's donations. There will then be little money for transportation, and the low level of infrastructure will continue to collapse. There are no promises to strengthen the situation of lost persons, but today the rising cost of housing consumes all the benefits of the public of a better economic situation. In fact, the government manages to make bad bread crumbs even worse. The breadcrumbs will now fall from the table of young people in a real estate market to people of big estate who gain more and more property prices. Inconsistencies will increase at the same time as after each study by international organisations show that increasing normality results in greater economic growth and greater overall satisfaction. The secretary of the budget is the most careful way to reduce the number of walkings that will reduce the level of money paid by ordinary people, all in the name of stability. What, then, is the contribution of the government to stability? Yeah, tax returns. To reduce the worthy tax and encourage private consumption during the thawing season, prioritization is a preemptive priority. It would have been better to use the 13 billion lost from a government fund to reduce insurance right away, the weight of an SME, the fields of knowledge based on intelligent knowledge. The knowledge is not about borders. It is about working environment and stability. So there is a missing priorities. If so, do not forget the awkward situations offered by such companies by swinging microspheres. Which, in fact, reminds me of the greatest government dowry to the nation, the highest-level fight. Prime Minister and secretary of finance openly about money and currency. This is not to add credibility. I'm concerned that now the same mistake as before the collapse. Taxation during the run-in period, privatization of banks during terms of blind belief in liberalism without clear direction, and reduction in tax balance. When will reports of the shipwreck of the new free mind come up in the Ministry? During the first few days, the government's administration, executives, and the general public, will have been driven by the major health and welfare structure of the system. People don't act like idiots forever. The head of the University of Iceland has stepped forward saying budget money for the next year is very disappointing and is not compatible with promises made before elections. During the next few years, we face the largest change in society from the 19th - century industrial revolution. A powerful educational system will determine whether we Icelanders can handle them properly. So this shortsighted attitude is not available. Education is the key to a well - paying job and a powerful job life and a successful future for the Icelanders. We must think further ahead. There is no savings in not implementing a multiplicity of public service, as requested in the schedule on page 6. 12th Sadly, there is no forwardness in this program. Here, the old - fashioned right policy is tailored to special interest, and the continuation of it would be a call for specific support, a team intervention, as it has been for the entire 20th century. Eight tops. The minister of finance is not taking over the vast social revolution that awaits us on the other side of the corner? First, we need more money in education so that it can give us a way to the future. Second, we need more money for a health care that enables us to pursue the necessary ministry regardless of our economic situation. Third, we need money to deal with increasing traffic, to increase security, and even to avoid falling apart. And fourth, we need a huge effort to ensure social stability and to meet those who are least vulnerable in the community. It's the real savings, the highest. Minister, but requires building up at the same time. We always hear stories of too much damage in the social security system. Farmers and older citizens must not make money unless benefits are made. The improvement in social security is expected to increase according to the percentage increase in the general labour market, which in other words means that improvements will increase less than minimum wage and the status of a pensioner. It simply has to put more money in social security. All classes speak on holiday that children should not suffer because of their parents'financial situation. Yet, there are over six thousand children who lack in Iceland. There are, however, no additional financial contributions that are provided in the payment of child benefits. There is no intention of extending birthworm to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. Children's families are left behind. Young people are getting caught in a poverty trap. The provision of the housing market is a major problem that needs to be dealt with in a decisive way. The Kingdom must immediately establish social measures. There is no discussion of housing in a government contract. How ironic, then, that one of the very first works was the best. Department of Social Affairs has been declaring the emergency of a facility and starting a committee on the matter. We in the United States have pointed to a formidable situation in housing sales for four years, but unfortunately, we have only a few subsidies. So we're waiting for the budget. But what did it reveal to us? In 2017, contributions in the affected home support range from over 14 billion and end in 2022 to 12 billion. It's down to 2 billion. The reaction to the emergency is a 15% decrease in housing support. Madam President. Before the election, all groups agreed on the absolute need to strengthen the public health system. More than 86 thousand signed the challenge that contributions to health would be 11% of national production. The yield will be 7.85% of the land production at the end of the period or 0.85% of the percentages increase. There's not a lot of respect here for a few months of campaign campaign code. Looking back on a shorter period of time, we see an even darker picture. Hospitalisation contributions in 2018 will be only 0.41% higher than this year. This is not enough to keep up with the estimated growth in service as a result of population growth and tourism. Whatever it takes to deal with the cost of the nation's growing age. The hospital and the Hospital's operations in Akureyri will likely need to be cut off next year. The budget cannot be completed without talking about its impact on the economy as a whole, especially the government's budget. By means of the spending rule, all trust seems to be placed on an increasingly swollen economy. If there's a national failure of more than a year, the government's gonna land on a straitjacket with just one piece in the armory, the cutthroat knife. To secure the government's expenses as 41.5% of land production, when this rich demand for additional expenses is extremely dangerous. There is too little room for extra expenses, and there is limited room for the country to keep the economy going if possible. We experience metres in the Western world. He wants the government to do the best he can for them. All classes, including the members of the government, owe it to the Americans to keep the big words that fell before elections. A government government that has a weak share, has little support by polling and logs in the same debates over most matters, would have sought reconciliation with the government's stand on the implementation of this financial program. Madam President. Iceland is on its own for the use of a once-in-a-year trip. This is due to successful economic development in the wake of the collapse, the mackerel, and the ever - growing tourist visits. All of this has provided the basis for our success today. We are to be able to develop a happy, peaceful society that is desirable in life. Sadly, the government does not seem to have the confidence or the courage to go there. How sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u107	Madam President. I'm not going to make use of this answer to thank you for all the talk presented. A senator, rather to thank members in general for a very objective discussion. I feel like I've done a good job. I feel that the prime committee and members of Congress have come to a good conclusion as to how such discussions can be conducted. I benefited greatly from hearing speeches. Senators. I found them perplexing, and it was very helpful for me to sit here and listen to them. I say again, I look forward to it. The budget continues to work on the case and knows that this will be done in close cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-05-55.u108	Madam President. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the secretary of finance for keeping the Watch here and participating in discussions. That's really important. I'm sorry, though, that more executives cannot see how to follow the discussion. Perhaps this shows that they believe that we are on such government self - control that nothing can be done. Well, that's not good. I think we should use this opportunity to handle things a little. I know it's the highest. Secretary of finance is wide-minded, sensible, intelligent man. Who knows that tomorrow's communication will only lead to a conclusion on the course closer to a general agreement. But thank you.
