ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u1	Honorable generals. We received this tragic report yesterday that Ólöf Nordal, general and former minister, had been dead in the morning at the hospital here in the city. The report was unexpected and distressing, although all of us knew that Ólöf had for some time been severely ill. Only 50 years of age, this beautiful woman from everywhere was taken for joy and light. From around here, her family is the deepest of sympathy. Ólöf Nordal was born in Reykjavík on December 3, 1966. Her parents are Jóhannes Nordal, former bank manager, and Dóra Guðjónsdóttir of Nordal, pianist, and housewife. Ólöf finished a student test from the University of Education in Reykjavík in 1986, a law degree from the University of Iceland in 1994, and a MBA test from the University of Reykjavík, 2002. Ólöf was the head of the Department of Transport for 1996-1999 and then a lawyer for the Iceland Penitentiary for two years. She was a practice teacher in law at the University of Business at Bifrost 1999-2002 as well as the head of the Department of Business Laws for a year. In 2002 it became the head of a global trade for land activation, then the manager of the sales field at Rarik 2005/2006 and the head of the Kaiser of Energy from 2006 until February 2007. In 2005, Ólöf moved to Eglish Place. She soon began sharing in the work of the Independence Party there and was the president of the Independence Society wealthy in the East. In 2007, for example, before the 2007 General election, she made an offer to be held by the National Independence Party, received a fine foundation, and served as an elected member of Congress in May that year. At the election two years later, she moved to Reykjavík and was in one of the leading parties in April 2009. A year later, 2010, she was the vice president of the Independence Party. In the autumn of 2012, Ólöf announced that she was excommunicated by the political scene of spring, 2013. She then settled up and lived abroad for a while. But in late 2014, she agreed to accept the office of the Minister of the Interior, even if it was an outside body. She had high trust in her duties as a minister, and her party led her back into the course. Again, she became vice president of the Independence Party of 2015 and received the lead in the category's reelection in Reykjavík before the last election in October 2016. She was last in this hall at a assembly meeting on December 6th of that year. as member of the Council of Reykjavík, South and Internal Ministers. All told, she was sitting at 11 legislatures. At the World Assembly, Ólöf was located in the longest international committees, and he was also serving on transport and environment committees, as well as on financial committees. She used most of the judiciary and police fields, as well as the Constitutions. When she became minister on December 4, 2014, she was well - known to all the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. She served as ministers until January 11th. While out of Congress in 2013, Ólöf was president of the National Bank Office of Iceland. Wherever the Ólöf Nordal was doing well, she was an extremely clear, perplexing speaker and publication, masterful, brilliant, talented, talented, and charming woman. Everyone thought it would be good to have her close to work here at the General Assembly. Truly, it will be difficult for Ólöf Nordal to leave behind in politics. On the contrary, all party bonds mourn the fine and well - respected fellow workers. I ask councilmen to remember Ólöf Nordal by rising from their seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u2	At the death of Ólöf Nordal, 1st. Smoke. As such, Sverrisdóttir Sverrisdótttir, the 1st Special Assembly member of the Independence Party in the District of the United States, takes Hildur Sverisdotttir. Hildur Sverrisdóttir will be 8th. Smoke. s.,Sattles On. Andersen 4. and Brumes the Brynjar of Níelsson the 1st. The district.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u3	At a meeting of the Westnoric Council on February 2, Brontí Haraldsdóttir was elected president, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter was vice president. At a meeting of the Council of Northern Iceland Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir and Vice President J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u4	To answer, health minister, social and equal minister, environment and resource minister, and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u5	A respectable president. Health issues in recent days have been discussed with much attention to the nature of the matter, and including the nature of the matter. in special discussions at the council. We advanceers, led by what? paritaprevir Elisa Lára Arnardóttir, has put in a program of health because we feel that building is essential, that humans have plotted what they are going to do. I would be interested in hearing the minister's stand on this council resolution. At the same time, the minister of speech and literature in the last days has provided information that there is an abundance of structure, including this. the growing number of nursing homes that can't be helped. Therefore, I would also like to ask the minister if he could expect to update the plans of the first secretary, who offered suggestions for building in five nursing homes, and if such renovations would be brought into the council at that time. In the South, two nurses, one Bleslas and the other, Kumbaravgi, have been sealed up to 50 compartments. It stands to build a new nursing home with 50 compartments to be completed in a long - standing area of 2019 with the longest members of the country. I know that an amateur group for extending Kumbaravog's life has met the Ministry and the Minister's assistants, so I ask: "What's going to be the greatest taste? Minister to take hold of this more difficult situation in the South? Is there an option on his part to extend Kumbaravog's life until a new nursing home arises? Does a minister have ideas to expand the new nursing home and to speed up the project? I know there are a lot of people in the South who are waiting to get the clear answers from a pontta today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator asks me in the first place to address the Parliament's decision to agree with the senators' decision to make a presentation on the Health Programme. Thus, it is to say that in many respects the controversy proposal rhymes with the declared objective of the government and my health - care minister to work to shape a broad range of health policies. Getting started is preparation for such work. Of course, the government is new, so to speak, and the first few weeks of office have been quite eventful and many things that have had to be done. But there is a lot of work that has taken place, and it can be used as a basis for working at a health policy and it is important to start by taking that job up and studying what has already been studied. For health care in the South, it is certainly true that there is pressure there, especially because of Kumbaravog's closing circumstances, which was simply inevitable because of the repeated complaints about the situation and the haven't been successful. But the good news is that the people of Kumbaravog have been doing well in other places and in places where the inhabitants have wanted to be. From what I understand, there has been a place for nearly all the people, and most or many of them have already moved. I have to come up with more questions. The senator in the future will answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u7	A respectable president. I'm going to use the second talk to set me apart so that I can get a clearer answer from the highest. Secretary of health. Supports the highest. Minister of Parliamentary Reunion on a health plan here for the council? When I'm at the highest. One minister says that the good news has already set people up is that it has just been planted, in fact, with some failures that are never good news. But the evil side of the good news is that those who were already on the waiting list and were number two to three now number eight to nine. The waiting lists are increasing, and it becomes more difficult for those who saw fit to go to a nursing room soon to see that it will be very late. So I ask again: Is the Minister and Ministry taking some special action, perhaps opening the Kumbaravog again? I know that people have both collected money, dealt with health authorities, and the fire officials. Or will the minister expand the planned nursing home in Selephoss and speed them up? [[The president calls.]] Something has to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u8	A respectable president. As I said here before in my previous reply, I did not have time to answer to the whole question of why. Senator. Hv. There's a senator talking about a move. It is true that not all Kumbaravog's inhabitants are living in Kumbaravogs who move to places in the area. The Ministry examines the status of nursing homes and space in the South. There have already been some operations. There is an increase in space in Whos making, and during the days, a new wing was being opened at the nursing home of Landi at Hella, so there are operations. One of the things I have considered and are looking at right now is the structure of Selephoss, but I don't really have a conclusion on the matter right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u9	Madam President. I think I can speak on behalf of all of us when I say that we're all struck by information and descriptions that came out of the Environmental Commission report on equipment and treatment of children in Kapovogs bin. I would like to agree with those who have been told to film the media, such as the filming of the Aagot Year's Árnadóttir, the former head of Development, that this report has to be taken and used to respond in modern times. That's why I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Affairs, for the present situation is his business. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the Ministry has started work in order to address the indications that are presented in the report on what needs to be added to the case of disabled persons and what the Minister intends to do to ensure disabled people's rights in all areas in accordance with the European Convention. Similarly, whether a ministerial servant will initiate a study of violence against disabled children during the season, many studies show that disabled children are at greater risk of becoming violent than other children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u10	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I agree with her. Of course, all of us are deeply shocked by this report and the descriptions and terrible things it contains to think that these disabled individuals were living under these tragic conditions, even for decades. I don't think anyone's comfortable with that description or reading and reporting. Happily, this class has been greatly improved. We work from a very different source today in the services of disabled individuals. Happily, this report reflects attitudes, prejudice, past times. Of course, it is a black spot, like other such reports we have received in recent years about how these matters were handled but have been the most important thing for us in recent years. That is a subject in which we must always strive to improve. There are just a lot of issues in the Ministry Department, including... aims to improve the rightness of disabled persons further. Regarding the question of whether the Ministry has started work to respond to the recommendations or instructions found there, we have requested a meeting with the head of the Committee to obtain a thorough review of its key findings and, of course, let's remember what she requires of the Ministry. What will the Ministry intend to do to ensure the human rights of disabled people? As I mentioned, this is our Constitution of Congress for a number of prime warnings about the rights of disabled persons, where we are entering our commitment under the United Nations approved by the United Nations and will further reform the rights of disabled persons. In view of this, it is in the Ministry to promote the surveillance of this class further, and I think the conclusion is soon to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u11	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. The minister for the answers and the importance of using this report to learn from the past and to do better in the future. I'm glad to hear it. A minister will arrange for a meeting with the chairman of an ecology committee and will better review the tips outlined in the report. I would like to reiterate my question about whether a minister will initiate a study of violence against disabled children. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of whether he intends to promote the position of rightsmen and personal spokesmen so that the disabled can be assured of proper assistance in seeking their right to be reasonable. At the same time, I think it is clear that the cost of assistance cannot be reduced in order to reduce the total level of fair compensation that will be paid. [[The president calls.]] It has to be done in the court order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u12	Madam President. I may not have been able to answer all the questions in the previous answer, but what is being said inside the Ministry is being considered in a special surveillance agency within the particular class. This has been considered following indications including From the U.S. Marshal's office that our arrangements are not sufficient. Of course, this should be taken seriously. When it comes to the discussion of the court guard, it is absolutely true that we need to further strengthen that system. It is the evaluation of those who know that this is a very expensive team and that we need to correct it in order to strengthen this vital resources of disabled persons in view of this conclusion. So yes, it stands at the door. Finally, on the final question of whether to initiate a special study of violence against disabled persons in modern times. I believe that's a complete possibility. This is the group of paintings we need to take great pride in and keep an eye on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u13	Madam President. Government agencies have been publishing work and management permits to fish farms without any future policy or assessment of existing natural plants. Landowners, hunting companies, vagrants, tourism, and aviationists are deeply concerned about the plan of fish farming in Western and southern Eastern Europe and believe that the Environment Ministry failed by not having made any risk assessment or assessment of nature's protection in the above - mentioned areas. About 2 of you. Legal areas earn substantial amounts of fishing and television and are believed to be significant property value by about 10 of you. Families will suffer irreparable damage. There are a number of charges in the administration, and there is now a holding on behalf of the legislatures. Now hundreds of universities and biological institutions in our neighboring countries are seeking to prevent the damage caused by fish farming in open seas, but they admit that solution to the problem is not in sight. In addition to environmental impacts, it is apparent that economic impacts will be significant as current employment practices such as fishing and vascular systems will be affected negatively. An extensive marine waste will reduce the image of Iceland as an attractive salmon industry if the same genetic pollution occurs in this country and has occurred in such a way. In Norway. Fish farming here belongs to foreign people, including a member of the country, and may be estimated to be part of the profit of a brother. In the case of investors, the risk is taken by major biohazardous contamination of the blood vessels and feed residues, infectious diseases and parasites, as well as genetic contamination of wild salmon in the rivers. With this in mind, I ask the highest. Minister: What's the position of the Environment Minister on fish farming? Take care of the highest. Ministers go to fish farm policies? Tells you the highest. Ministers are important to conduct any risk assessment because of the planned fire and an assessment of nature's protection, as natural protection laws allow?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u14	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the inquiry. It's very urgent. I can honestly say that I'm quite worried about salmon farms, but I've also said it and said again that my vision of all production and employment, whether salmon or anything else, is that the operation can only be allowed if it meets the requirements for environmental protection and nature. In order to run fish farms, both the Agency's work permit and the management permit from the Food Agency, which is subject to agrienvironmental and marine ministers. The Agency issues the work permit. It is clear, therefore, that a conversation between these advisers, my Ministry and the Department of Marine Scourge and Agriculture Ministers has to be considerable. Already, the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister has set up a group that is investigating these matters with government officials from me and with its Ministry, and I also have members from the Directorate on salmon farms or something similar, but I think it should also be some sort of environmental organization. I keep in mind that we're looking at changing this combination only, but will, if willing, do so in agreement with a marine eco-efficiency minister. That's all I'm expecting. Hv. A senator's concern for salmon was well - documented. I want to make it clear that unless the agencies in charge of these matters feel safe, it is safe to do so. But I still feel that there is a need for a more comprehensive evaluation and policies, as are being done in this industry, so that we are sure that this work will be in accordance with environmental and natural protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u15	Madam President. I'm so happy to hear it. Ministers talk about any risk assessment procedure, it's very important. I'll be watching it. Or it may be added that if at any other level there is an increase in fish farming, if we come to the conclusion after this risk assessment has been made that it will be okay, which I don't think the results will be at least to offer a possible fish farm and make the person live to enjoy some of the revenues that come in like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u16	President. I appreciate that question too. It's very interesting. It is about the fact that fish can actually only happen with Icelanders in certain areas where feathers are deep enough to have the supplies needed. There are indeed limited benefits. It's not like some people want to think that fishing is possible in every other fish, it's not like that. It's especially on the West and the East as well. I think it's very important that it's not the kind of license that it's just the first one to come first. We need to take a closer look at the fact that it's not the first person in the series who's going to get the license, one's number 10, but it's only nine. So I've asked the EEA to look into these matters, and the director there has been very careful about it. To do so, I would have to consider some adjustment, but that is not the case. In terms of expenses, resource expenditures, on this sector, I think we should consider them very seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u17	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment and resource secretary to implement the part of the government's declaration of policy that will not be provided for any new intention of investment agreements due to the development of contaminating major sectors. I'll state that I like this course to the highest. Governments, but that's what I want to know about. V.E.G. Ministers have often rejoiced that this chapter in Iceland is over. That is why I was surprised when I turned to the Government Constitution and found no plans for changing the law to support it. It's the highest. Does not Ministers agree that adjustments are necessary to make the declaration and policy a reality? Investments to new investors are given under the framework of an indiscriminate game from 2015. It lists specific requirements that must be met in order to enjoy pleasure. Nowhere has there been a definition of pollution in the law. How is it to enforce the inability of contaminated corporations to get injury on the basis of laws that are in force? Is there a term for projects that fall under the EU's commercial release system to which Iceland is involved? These projects can undergo assessments of environmental impact and be authorised on the basis of Icelandic legislation. Can we understand the government's declaration so that new projects could be started that could be called contaminated trades, but they just don't get an investment deal with the Italians?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u18	A respectable president. I also appreciate your question. Senator. I like how much questions I get during unsubstantiated question periods, maybe we'll discuss more environmental matters than I've been. Regarding the polluting industry and what it says in the government covenant, it is true that we are not going to make new investment agreements there. This is how, and I took a good look at it when I wanted this to happen, that in the last few years or decades, this has not been the case with any special advances from the state. It's as if this isn't really possible in the minds of corporate owners without special discounts from taxes and taxes, which I don't think we should give and we're not going to give. Hv. A senator asks if a change of law is necessary. I don't think it's after we took a very close look at the Department of Employment, exactly this new investors frame deal. It certainly does not contain the words of polluted industry, but what appears in it and rhymes very well with our emphasis, the modern green policy of employment, is that in the framework laws, nature and protection are spoken of. We're going to take them up higher and keep them higher than the others. The committee of the Ministry has received this recommendation and knows that it is not in the government's policy to promote pollution and not intend to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u19	Madam President. I still think it's a little bit vague. For all aspects of employment development, it is very important that the law is clear and predictable, and nothing in the process depends on a minister or anyone else. Foreign investors need clear and fixed rules to maintain and clear demands, e.g. environmentally relevant. It is important that they are known, transparent, and predictable so that all can know how to fulfill them. That's why it's so important to get to the top. The minister and the government give a clear answer to how and on what legal basis will it enforce the failure of polluters to get investment agreements with the government, although they meet all its requirements under current law. Do those who now look for clear answers to laws, rules, and guidelines that set the line between contaminated industry and other projects? I'd also like to ask about the interaction between the Ministry of Employment and the Environmental Affairs, where it's the Department of Employment that handles it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u20	A respectable president. I don't really know how one government can say this more clearly than putting it in its government covenant, this special law, that it will not give in favor of new investors in the contaminated industry. There's really nothing clearer than that. Then we can what? A senator went over the framework together and found a paragraph that specifically deals with environmental and natural protection and how we can quite put it to the framework now in force and the Declaration of this Government, yes, the entire government, not a special minister. Although they live in the Department of Employment, it's the same political agreement that belongs there as in my Ministry, the Environment Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs, as well as the secretary of the labour market. We have had a long seaside strike, which has had a tremendous impact on sailors and businesses and especially on reduced productions and fish farming. This has also had a major impact on the status of fish workers in the country. Fish workers are on unemployment. About 1,300 are reformed. Some 300 people have not been able to make compensation, move from abroad, or get out of the way. Fishing workers are badly protected against sea - trade strikes. While supporting sailors in their struggle, it is unacceptable to have the insecurity of suddenly being dumped and placed on unemployment reforms with a necessary failure. I think this job security is unique in the workplace, and they have to strengthen the rights of these people. After a collapse, the unemployment improvement period was extended to four years, while the last government reduced the period to two and a half years. There was great opposition to this in the labor movement. It has been observed that since 1999, unemployment improvements and insurance insurance have been greatly reduced. So I want to ask the highest. Workforce minister: Will he work hard to prolong his unemployment period from two and a half years to three years? Will he use himself to strengthen the resignations of fish workers? Will he put forth the effort to raise unemployment rates so that they can keep up with low income gains in his country? Very much. Social Ministers support that seamen's food money will be made free of tax? But such a case could solve the knot in the seaman strike. That's a matter for the council, and I'm a 1st transporter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u22	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I agree that it is a very serious matter when this dispute cannot be resolved and how long a strike has been standing, when the issue continues. In fact, it is worth considering how difficult it is to negotiate in this contract, it seems that it is more like a rule than an exception to the fact that getting together is going very badly. Taking into consideration both sides of this dispute will help you to see what causes it. The government has been explicit in its declarations, they do not intend to intervene in this dispute, and indeed the issues there are debates, i.e. sea trade systems, of which it is not a government to intervene and decide. I know from previous jobs that it is not convenient when a world of Congress begins to get in big trouble, but it usually disrupts more than the benefits of the discussion at the council. Second, when governments are in desperate need of intervening conflicts, it must lead to some solution to the issue. It seems that this is not a good way, and it has actually been made clear to both debaters that they wish that governments will not intervene in the dispute, at least at this time. You know, about a question or two. A senator's opinion of whether I intend to use myself to extend the improved period again - no, I do not consider the economic conditions to be a reason. Business prospects are good and blessed when people usually make less money than the maximum improvement period would give rise to it. In such a situation, I see no need to extend the period. Will there be an option to raise your benefits? Of course, we are always considering the means of minimum remuneration, but there has been no clear prime objective. [[The president calls.]] Of course, in terms of food money and tax - free money, it is a financial minister's business to eliminate it, but the government's declarations have also been clear in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u23	A respectable president. I don't recommend a man grabs in a fight over his head. But under these circumstances, it is reasonable for the government to be involved in this case with a positive sign. In a positive way, the last government, like other public employees and classes who are away from their homes today, spoke of making the tax money. It's a completely different thing than having to intervene in some way, such as being corrected as the highest. Social Affairs ministers have considered normal, such as in the case of air traffic back then. We're free of agreements this spring, and I think this time people should be able to provide a positive approach to labour markets, such as the increase in unemployment rates and the increase in unemployment benefits in line with the cost of minimum wage in the country. In the coastal areas where both the sailor and the fish worker are out of work and small and medium - sized companies are about to go bankrupt, the sea is full of money. So people cannot just sit down and lean back and do nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u24	Madam President. It is not so, however, that the government does not have a legal bill for the council to intervene in this conflict that it is unconcerned by the debate, on the contrary, and in what way it can be used to support its members. Completely, I'm simply saying that this controversy and how it has drawn longer and how few resources we really have in our labour legislation to remove such knots or cut off when they come up is exactly an indication of the importance of the revision which is among the labour market partners of the labour agreements, of the shape of which they are designed, and that in the legislation of statehood, there is simply more resources to try to support such agreements and agreements. It lacks much, and when we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries, we see that the office of the state - statesmen has far more resources in their hands than it has observed here. That's what I think we need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u25	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize passengers and cargo transports. The bill is aimed at ensuring and/or strengthening the improvement of the implementation of five European transport directives which have already been implemented in the EEA Convention and have already discussed four of them in the previous phase of the induction process. Three of these types deal with access to both the passenger and transport transport markets, the requirements to be met in order to serve as a road transport provider and to monitor such activities. At that time, the fourth type involves the right of a passenger in a group of automobiles, and the fifth and the final deals with authority to negotiate the duties of public service in connection with commercial passenger transport. For some time now, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been working on their overall legal reviews toward passengers and cargo transports. It was expected that the introductions of the European types involved in this work. The work produced was made up of two new bills submitted to the 144th legislature, one about commercial passenger transport, and the other about shipping across the country. The bills were not reimbursed at the council and have not been reassigned. However, it remains the obligation of the Icelandic government to fulfill its commitments under the EEA Convention. That's the bill it says here. The bill is written at the State Department. This is a bill for a new total layer that will replace the transport and transport laws, No. 73/2001. It should be noted, however, that despite the fact that this bill is a new total layer, it does not contain any changes in matter other than those produced by the above European types. Thus, when preparation was started with a clean introduction bill in the form of a modification bill, it was found at work that the changes are much more extensive that it would be more important to submit a complete bill in which only the changes were made to the current laws resulting from the introduction of these types. I will now discuss the changes to the current law proposed by the bill in the order of which they occur. Chapter I contains general guidelines for values, administration and key words. These changes are suggested in Article 1. that there will be some limits of the law on transport from the current law. The EU Regulation No. 1071/2009, which requires that Member States be allowed to provide certain details of its regulations. So here it is, by the exception of the regulations of the law, all the transport permitted according to the Regulation. It is considered that the law's standards are made to be as narrow as the commitment of the Icelandic state that the European Court calls national interest in a wide range of values. Two. which discuss the role of the institutions of the State under the law, the only suggestion is to change the current law which will not be guided by European rules. The principle is in accordance with the laws on the role of the minister and the Association. However, in the current law, roadmaking is also expected to go, along with the CA, to play a role in the implementation of the law. However, it is not. It has not been. The sole function of roadmaking in accordance with local law is the design of public transportation. It is suggested that the law make clear the change of action. Finally, 3rd. suggest that certain types of European concepts or related to their implementation in the terms of the bill are outlined in explanatory terms. These are the terms public transportation, waiting stations, exclusive rights, transport manager, artistry, and center. At that time, the word transport of people throughout the bill is converted to passenger transport. Il. section of the bill on permit measures are the conditions of the general employment authorisation, which is a license that everyone needs to be able to pursue road transport, in line with the requirements of the European Regulation. In this way, the claim that the permit holder should have a good reputation is made, requiring that a government permit holder has confirmed here on a land that is active and stable. These changes can be found in Article 5. That's 6. To find new ones that are not in the current law. It discusses the requirement that the Shipping Director's commission and the conditions it needs to meet, but these conditions are actually comparable to the conditions facing today that are expected to meet the supply of transport companies. Seven. The bill contains regulations for the private right to organize public transport in specific areas, paths, or guides, and the conditions of such the exclusive rights to be granted. A similar law is found in Article 7. current law, which refers to a patent instead of private rights. There will be no change in the content of the private rights of this word change. However, 2 mg is at 2nd. Find new ones in the law where there are certain conditions for the granting of the exclusive rights of the law. A private right is expected to be granted only if it is shown that a regular passenger transport in that area is needed because of its general, economic translation and that it will not be run on a business basis in order to ensure minimum service. A competition is to stay where it already is. Then it is a requirement for the granting of private rights that the road has made a cost- and competitive assessment taking into account the true need for public funds in the area. It should be noted that although this is a new law, this is not a new reference in the Icelandic Regulation; however, these changes are in accordance with the requirements set out in European Regulation 1370/007 and were implemented in Icelandic just by Regulation No. 128/2011. 3 mg. it is then recommended that the obligation to distribute regular passengers on the basis of private rights of tenders. They are discussed in terms of tenders and contracts for public service in the field of passenger transport in IV. section of the bill. In 1 1. The current legislation can be found in the format of a joint transport license to those who intend to transport between countries within the EEA area. A similar law is found in Article 10. This bill. It also provides a new reference for the permission of a Grouping Agency to publish a so-called driver's certificate to a artist who has hired a driver who is not a citizen in the EEA or who has a regular residence. The provision contains permission to give further consideration to this European transport permit and driver's certificate. This is how Europe's induction is expected on this subject. It should be noted that due to the geographical nature of Iceland, this law and the regulations to be placed on the basis of the very limited impact in this country. The proposed changes to III. see chapter 12 of the bill. that suggest, however, some changes from the terms of the currency contained in Article 13. current law. There's a set amount of money required for a license in the current U.S. Association. However, it is assumed in its regulations that the Act of the Act would be due to a travel agency's registration. That fee is confirmed by a minister. This arrangement is much better in accordance with legal requirements today and provides reasonable room for the Agency to ensure that the payment reflects the actual cost of the State's service. A respectable president. We're up to IV. section of the bill that deals, as I have mentioned before, about contracts for public service in the passenger field. It suggests that there will be legalized in three of the principles of agreements for public service found in the European Regulation No. 1370/2007 and was introduced into Icelandic rights in its time of Regulation. The legalization of these principles is designed to prevent a trial, especially since treaties such as these may include significant restrictions on the free competition of public transport. Chapter V is all new, but no provision is given in current law on passenger rights in group vehicles. The rules given in this chapter, in more detail, are 16,◯21. g., intended to ensure improvement prior to the introduction of European Regulation No. 181/2011, which has already received extensive treatment at the council, based on Article 2. Conventional rules on the treatment of EEA regulations. This section includes: magazine on the rights of passengers to information and assistance if there is a delay, their reform rights in case of an accident, their right to complain to the Group Hall, they feel they have violated their rights, etc. The rules are not different from the rules that already apply to flight rights, and they agree with stakeholders that the rules are not considered to be unduly burdensome. It should be noted that the chapter's directives will never be interpreted to limit the benefits that passengers in groups of vehicles may have according to the general rules of Icelandic law. In that case, passengers can have no less justice than that of the bill. European Protocol No. 181/2011 will be implemented as a whole in the Regulation, but in the light of the material it would be justified to validate its main principles. In VI. chapter 6 of the bill discusses government surveillance and measures in violation of the standards of the bill. A certain administrative committee is expected there on the side of a United States Association, as well as a police patrol. The implementation of current legislation has shown that it has been difficult for agencies to monitor the transport process for the duration of the law's monitoring, as well as for the resources established by the institutions to cope with fractures, to be very limited. In this way, it has been difficult to ensure the right of people who are authorized by the law. No. An effective monitoring and repair system is expected to be implemented by Member States, 1072/2009 and 1073/2009. It requires that governments be provided with resources such as a warrant for revocation and collapse of transport systems in the event of violation of legal regulations. This chapter is designed to fulfill these obligations of the State of England. The obligation to set up a surveillance system with wooden laws that are effective in proportion to the fracture and have a warning effect carried out in 29. The bill. A law on guilt is also found in current laws, but it seems rather vague. At that time, it will not be considered to be particularly discouraging for a major venture that the maximum amount of fines is 100,000. as is now assumed. In accordance with the principle of the clarity of penalties, it was decided to place in the law a clearer warrant with reference to the laws that can be punished. There is the right both to increase the warning effect of the law, but also to ensure the harmony between the penalties and their usefulness of judicial decisions on the basis of the law. That brings us to the end line of the bill. There are new words found in Article 31. that discuss the obligation of a U.S. O.A. to keep an electronic list of passengers who are involved in passenger transport and freight transport. In the European Regulation it is expected that each Member State will maintain such a record. This registry shall include information on the name of the company and its business plans, address, name of the transport manager and representative, number of vehicles to which the license is used, and number, class and type of serious offenses resulting in conviction or other requisitions. Electrical files such as this and their agreement between the European Union have already been set up in other Member States in the EEA, and their purpose is to reduce administrative costs of monitoring and improving the effectiveness of monitoring. Clearly, the registry is of limited value here in a country where there is little evidence that other countries are driving here or vice versa, but the United States is still under obligation to meet this requirement. At this recommendation, a respectable president, I have concluded my case and suggest that the bill be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u26	Madam President. I thank the minister for the story, which I expect to be the first one since he took office. In view of this, it is of interest that these are the induction of European actions. Even the warlike men would say that the Minister was beginning to submit quite much to the Brussels power by changing the Icelandic version of this bill so that the transport is no longer to be spoken of but, by permission of the president, the President of the EEA's permission, to a better degree, in line with the wording of the EU types (EES). But the person standing here is not a man of war, so he will not make a case out of it. There's a lot of pressure to finish this case, as the secretary's report and case. EFTA has announced that the Court will not allow it to be implemented for the EFTA Court. However, in that light it is even more important to be careful because the same would be true of wrong induction. I'd like to ask specifically about the 15th floor. The bill that says that the authorities should normally offer a routine passenger transport in their area. I don't think it reflects the spirit expressed in the Regulation itself. Then I refer to Regulation 1370/007, which says in Article 18. the entrance where these authorities can choose, by permission of the President, to provide their own public passenger transport services in the area where they run or assign internal operators to care for it without a competitive invitation. I think it's only turned to the head, so the pressure on rural governments is increasing to provide this public service. In view of this, I would like to ask a secretary about what was being done with the Streets and the European Union, as shown in the bill, where no comments could be made from those key members. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask the minister, " What did these comments turn around, and why are they not considered? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u27	A respectable president. So I'll start off with the comments as loud as possible. A senator testified to them, but we know that the tourism service has made comments that we do not consider extremely radical, and we feel that it is only natural to adopt the work of the Committee. The ministry's choice was to take clean induction of the case and not to interfere with it by putting into the matter a different point than those directly involved in its introduction, but to hide the commission to accept comments like these and to make additional changes if they are close to that. As mentioned in the case of what? The senator is a minister allowed according to Article 15. to set up a further Regulation on the implementation and structure of the exports generally believed to be the rule of rural society. In contrast, there is nothing in these laws that forbids rural society to care for themselves for this service, making a decision to do so. A person may conclude this, but it is thought that the general rule will become a service that will then be offered according to the rules set out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u28	Madam President. While Iceland's Constitution does not allow a limited supply of authority for foreign institutions, there is no such thing as a simple induction. This is always done by law in which it is endeavoring to fulfill the commitments we have to the national rights to the EEA agreements. The importance of such a bill is always a political decision. This comes from a minister who is not a clean financial agency but from a political official who puts forth a bill here to make a political decision to separate public transport from what was in the earlier prime. I think it's strange, I must say. That doesn't give you much confidence in the bill when you run into things that seem to actually go against the EEA deal, as in 5. the bill that says that the operator should have confirmed in this country, which violates the EEA Convention as one market area. If you examine the European Regulation 1071/2009, it is noted that a company should be confirmed in a Member State that will be even more clearly identified in the English version of the text, which says, by permission of President: ◯Establishment in a mass State. [[The president calls.]] In any Member State of the EEA Convention. Why has this become an ◯ here on land, which I would think the EFTA monitoring agency made a comment and would drag us to EFTA Court, just as it did not involve this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u29	A respectable president. The right to answer that question about Article 5. .............. A senator refers to them as being inserted for the reason that it is considered important for the Icelandic government to have the authority to issue the permits under these circumstances. We believe that our involvement in the EEA treaties is correct, there should be no doubt about it. It must be revealed if we are wrong, but that is the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u30	A respectable president. Before making a personal discussion, I would like to call the attention of the United States of Congress at the turning point that we now have. Sitting here in the chair of the General Assembly, I think for the first time. I find it particularly enjoyable, and I wish to congratulate a respected president. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Now to the point. In the 9th. Talks about driving specially equipped cars. She'll say, with President's permission: ▪ A living room allows you to operate specialised automobiles, e.g. To take a mountain trip, although such a car covers fewer passengers than nine. The requirements for such a license are that it is used in connection with travel services and that the applicant has a general license. 4. gt.st............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether to expand it or to enter another set of rules that would allow driving, which would include fewer passengers than nine, but is not prepared. In other words, a very normal person's vehicle.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u31	A respectable president. First, I'd like to take in an annual report to a respectable president and wish her a success in working here. About the 9th. .............. A senator asks about them is the law of this law in full harmony with what is in the current law. I can't compare it here with whether the idea can be considered a reasonable one. A senator runs this place, but I'm sure it's a good idea for the Senate trial. If you want it and you get your stand, the Minister will not be in any opposition to it, but this will just need to get his job in the trial here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. What I'm up to with this inquiry is about these special automobiles; it's a large SUV that is thoroughly polluted. These are giant diesel - powered trucks that drive through the highways of the country, more often than not by tourists, but never out of bounds. My request is, in fact, environmentally friendly. That's what's on my mind. That's why this inquiry came.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u33	A respectable president. I can see what's going on here. A senator was well versed. In the process of making this bill, there have been ideas from the tourism service on changing emphasis. But as I came into my first speech, the decision was made, provided the basis for the conflict between this matter and the importance of passing it through the council now, to have it as clean as possible. Then there is the possibility that these words are correct or not. I don't have any comments to that. I repeat it as my opinion in answer to why. I think it's important for the committee to take a good look at this. Of course, the bill will be sent to the management and organization of the tourism agency, and more will be expected to appear before the Committee. I know why. A senator will be there, and he will be able to follow through on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u34	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Of course, it's 1st. And I'll admit I haven't read the bill yet. I wonder, however, because there is talk of a system, what effect of the bill, will it be a law, will have on public transportation in the part of the country. Its laws have caused problems that could be taken out of the transport lines and left standing on nondepths. Farmers have had to reduce services to the public. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does this change and the use of means of guidance prevent them from doing so? Will this already be the result of national improvement? Since there are other methods of witnessing, must we keep our ministry tight and keep out of bounds? I hope you're right. I'm asking the highest. Minister to this because e.g. In the part where I live, this has caused problems. Of course, there are other routes to travel across countries that are to be carried out by societies and parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u35	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. That's what it's all about. A senator here is sensitive and has caused conflict. It is just trying to face the criticism that has been caused by the rural communities and to try to get some extent of reconciliation about the process. In effect, part of a national community organization that puts much emphasis on the pipe system in such a way that it is setting up the methods that are widely used and that can be at the expense of having the network more extensive, so that it serves as a minister in the majority of the ideals. The rural community will define these systems, and this will be achieved. On the part of the Ministry, members of the community are considered to be building up the potential for public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u36	Madam President. I thank you for the answer, and I hope that that's true, and I look forward to seeing the arrangement of the change. There is something else that has been complained recently, i.e. that those who have patents may not be well protected by the same procedure and who do not respect their exclusive rights. V.E.G. The minister went over the matter earlier and, as I understood, he was obliged to press the woodcuts if he was wronged by a private court official. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will there be enough cool energy? Now, more is said: "You're ashamed, and then people just do it again, and again they say, 'You're ashamed. ' Will this have the power to prevent people or businesses from enforcing the rights of the authorized one?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u37	A respectable president. Hv. In the beginning, a senator mentioned that she had not read the bill in detail. I understand that well, it's a bit complicated to get involved in this. I've been busy with it, and then I've got an army of assistants to help me get my arms around it. We've found quite a lot on this matter, and I've been trying to get a good look at it. I'm feeling pretty good about that. I hope this will be the way of the trial here at Congress that we approach the matter in a way that could have quite wide peace. This is a sensitive matter. A senator mentions, but there is a very special law in the bill to sharpen these issues. This is being observed by the police under the law. So we believe that this aspect of the matter has been handled very well and that it is quite clear that there is a patent violation, e.g. by trying to pick up passengers by means of better produce, and more aggressively addressed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u38	A respectable president. I'm also going to join in for the seniors. President and I admire her courage. Here is a bill for the legislation on passenger transport and transport from transport and local government. I also congratulate him on his bill. This is one of the first many people he's going to bring into the council. I'm not gonna take long to review the bill right now. I've been through a lot before, and I've told my opinion about it. Here, that's a little different. I think it's very important for us to get together that the bill will benefit those who want to enjoy the public transportation in the country as well as the number of other factors presented here. I'm just going to make it clear that I am putting great emphasis on the changes made by the European Union and rural society on the bill, i.e. That we may ensure their best interests, that the people of the scattered places may not be broken up by the streets. It would be impossible for the bus system in Reykjavík if Routes 1 and 6 were taken out, then there would be little left in the system, and the community would be stuck with the ways that could be of little profit. So we need to protect the interests of the people of the country by means of the bill. Public transportation is incredibly important. We can see it from many places around us. Young people attend schools in the urban crescents. All over the South country, the system's blood vessels are up to the countryside, and students are driven to Selephoss University every morning, as well as to a group of young people in the surrounding areas, from the citynes, Smokejanesi, and the countryside east of the Southland, attend university studies to Reykjavík, using the public system. It is also good when the lack of housing is as high as it is. Young people can live in their parents'homes longer, and the public system guarantees that this can be the case. It's the same with young people and old people, as people can stay at home anymore, that's better. I think that by ensuring this interest - the committee will, of course, review it. That's where I'm going to discuss this rather. I'm glad the bill's out. As members of the Environment and Transport Committee, we look forward to coping with this and having a good cooperation with the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u39	A respectable president. It is proper to join complimentary ministers for the first bill and president by the first act of office. The thing that we're discussing here may be that we're not a big deal, some EEA instigation, but far away, it's a huge case, and it's affecting quite important aspects of our community that are public transportation. I'm glad to have heard a minister talk about their importance in a speech chair earlier. It's a bit harsh, so it's not fixed, that we're discussing this matter right now. Since its beginning in 2012, the system has been reinvestled and presented in previous councils, such as the Minister of the Supreme Minister. left here earlier. But then we're discussing this now changed from the previous cycle, but the Environmental and Transport Committee is scheduled to meet in less than 45 minutes to discuss it at an additional meeting. So the hurry is considerable, which is never good. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did well earlier that it is not only risky to interrupt the introduction of EU regulations, it is also risky to introduce them wrong. This, then, requires careful action. A minister says he has a good feeling for the case. That's good. I don't know what that means exactly. I don't know if I can hold onto these tickets with the only safety net that a minister has a good feeling for that. But this is a matter that we need to consider. V.E.G. In the talk chair, a minister earlier said that the public rule on driving licenses was that they would be invited out. As the abbreviation in the Sermon on the Mount was earlier, instruments are about the need to do so. This is one of the things to consider. In general about public transportation, I'd like to say that and watch in particular the aspect of the bill that, unfortunately, their environment has been unclear too long. A review of the predecessors of this bill, submitted at the General Assembly in 2015, gave special consideration to information about bus transport and passenger transport, their names being that way. In many ways it is wise to understand these two things, on the one hand, public transportation, which is part of the basic service that is publicized to offer its citizens, and then general passenger transport or transport, depending on whether or not we agree with the EEA or the EU or the Icelandic tradition, to understand between the fact that it has caused problems that this has been grafted together and has led to a failure to settle these issues during the last terms. An article with the bill refers to the private rights, i.e. contracts for patents in all parts of the country and proposed that the previously approved arrangement be called the patent. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ The thought of the new arrangement was to bring public transportation to local governments as part of the basic services of the surrounding community and also create a whole range of groundwork for this service by the private Marketing Authorisation Holder, in cooperation with local communities, any freedom to organize the ministry. The aim of these changes was to ensure good public service so that there would be a practical alternative to the private car. This is exactly where we come to this role of public transportation, on which I entered, as a basic public service. It says that this system will only be lowered against paying benefits to those now working on the basis of a patent. So says, with President's permission: Despite this, it is clear that the legislator is permitted to define more accurately what the current rights involve, which may include the perpetuity of intervention in a competitive situation on the free market and the limitations of other people's employment freedoms working on the same market. It's that tone, and it's the best words. Minister I quoted earlier as to the general order, that this will be offered out. It's the sound of the market, a competitive, free - market situation, which is good for its hat, which I think is dangerous for me to be the dominant figure in public transport discussions. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke before me and came briefly but well into the international network, especially in Reykjavík. I'm gonna let myself say a few things about it. As the requirement has been for the initials we've been dealing with in this room and in the administrative system of the past few years, no matter where you are in this country, there is not a universal situation. There may be a different situation in the more scattered regions where even tourists are being transported between places and then in the capital area, where one is in place and one on the other, because the requirement that has often existed on the part of the government has been that it must not lead to a lack of competition for other people who are involved in this operation. It's got, like, a whisk. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in, translated that if it were to be a prætttist, so I'd allow it to slag, by the permission of President, it would mean that they lead to a bus bearing; route 1, 6, they would have to be offered out private agents, while other ways not to carry themselves would be at the hands of the government. The profit would be private, but the cost would be on the shoulders of the common people. V.E.G. A minister has assured us in his discussion of these matters that this is not the case. I trust his words and will especially focus my attention on the work of the Committee and on continuing work on this bill and, of course, listen carefully and read carefully the comments of the reporters that will be given the bill for discussion. This may sum up what has been the problem in general in the environment of our public transportation. This is what has sometimes restricted the communities. A few years ago, due to localisation in the South, rural areas would like to develop a bus system that would reach Leifs son of Erik or Keflavour Airport, and would take passengers even to the capital, which would be a means of making a lot of money. The profit was to be paid by local government officials in the South, from where they came from, and then used to build a proper network of public transport in the area. However, this was difficult, and especially when it was contrary to the political will of the minister then to the seminary because we are running in the public interest, which is a good public transportation, and then the interests of the individual companies, who have lived bread by driving with passengers the same route. Thus, this dual nature of the matter calls a warning bell and tells us that we need to take a special look at this matter, for it must be absolutely clear that in this bill, although the introduction is, and perhaps out of it, there is nothing to prevent the public from offering an extensive and useful public service. An article with the bill says to form, with the permission of a president: ▪ Oh, my God. Figure 1. 2 mg. A private right, however, should be granted only if it is shown that a regular passenger transport in the affected area and routes is required due to its general, economic translation and that it will not be run on a business basis in order to ensure minimum services. Here, again, let us dance on the line of providing basic services for the cities and, on the other hand, not treading on private toes that profit from similar services. There have been other developments regarding transport to and from tourism sites. Buss. Criticized it at a time when the bill found that any destination as a tourist and/or a service site can, in fact, be defined. At that time, it will be a delight to drive in profits and to provide public transportation for the services. It's a huge bill. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came into it in opposition to why he could not have responded to comments that, for example, had not been made. Buss. and the Union of the Icelandic community showed up to the presidency of this bill in early stages. A minister briefly entered it. We'll probably discuss it further on the Environment and Transport Committee and here at the Hall. I reiterate that this is a huge matter, and in little legal fields, individual numbers, individual phrases, excerpts that follow this bill, there can be a wide range of pitfalls that can be found if the principle behind the bill is primarily to be to provide good public transportation on public roads. That's why I've often wondered about it, and now my ignorance in this hall and how new I am here, I don't know it, but I'm just gonna let myself think out loud because I have the secretary's attention complete, whether or not to separate these factors as well as possible, whether not even to be a special law on public transportation and other population transport or passenger transport in general. Although driving with people between two places on a bus may seem to be the same at the very same level, the nature of the ministry is quite different. On the one hand, it is a private company that naturally aims to increase their profits, and on the other hand, it is the natural basis for the State's services. I've been shooting over this case pretty light. It was distributed here on Tuesday. That's quite extensive. It refers to many laws and regulations and to the EEA plans and reviews the story. It must be carefully examined. The case was discussed over half an hour ago, and as I entered before the committee to gather in half an hour to discuss the matter. Such hurrying is not suitable, but more is our responsibility to do good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u40	Madam President. Congratulations on the position in the President's chair. I'm not going to put up a lot of words, but, of course, it's good to see this bill come up and be grateful. These are 34 articles and 17 pages of the report and I as a member of the Environment and Transport Committee... have found it a bit difficult to grasp. Of course, there is a need to give better time, more notice, even to 1st. magazines are often used. I've stumbled into this before and I think it would probably be possible to slow down in many cases. We'd have to be some sort of supermers with X-ray glasses in order to keep an eye on this and put ourselves in a case. When you're looking at a bill like that, you're looking for the main points. In this case, this is a private court in passenger transport, the proportion of public service in that subject and then the business service on a business basis. There are also some very complex and many conditions that should provide a measure of protection for consumers. I have to admit, it's kind of lame looking to get over it. But okay. This bill is designed to ensure good service. We, who have used public transportation in Iceland, know that it is extremely blundering. Of course, it's not the content of this bill itself. It's a projector. For example, if you take some men from Reykjavík to Stykisholm, you have three legs. There's a car change. The cars go in different directions. There's no information for passengers. I've seen very funny trips that take three or three and a half hours with foreign tourists running because they don't understand the system. In the South, that's what it said. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, a large region, is a number of roads, many pathways. There are too few trips each day, and they are not sufficiently tailored to the needs of users. This is especially true for students of high school, such as students in high school at Selephoss. It is obvious that passenger transport in such a country causes a steady review of the ministry and a great consultation with both users and rural groups holding on e.g. Bus. I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers and Ministry and local government if they hear me here planning this mission so important as others have entered this facility. This is an important subject. It's also happening to the executives. It has become clear here in Iceland because of society's small size and the size of the country's subsidies of all kinds are very important to maintain an intelligent system. The benefits of subsidies - bus or anything else - are found elsewhere in savings; they are known by roads and roads; and most of all, by climates. We'd like to forget to hook a good public transport system into the climate. Less emissions are of utmost importance. It's a gain, and although it's not a financial gain in cash, it's a lot of money. So my speech is more a reminder to put things first so that we can put more into it. Then there's the other thing to make sure that there's public transportation here, not only in the capital area, but also in the country, with a pretty good shot, so we can actually call them public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u41	A respectable president. I'm so glad we're now discussing public transportation bill. I'll get to call it that, though it's another name. I'd like to congratulate the Minister on this first bill. I think it's appropriate that the first bill of transportation and unit management is about public transportation. I don't have to worry about it. The senators of the left green who talked about how awful it would be for us to be discussing this here and we're going to a meeting later. I think it's very good for the bill to be discussed and we make the time so good to call out for reviews. I trust we'll be doing this very well on the committee, doing this professionally and well, calling out guests and those who may know a lot better about the situation than we do who are sitting in bed. Environmental and Transport Committee. I know a little about the previous version of this bill, I studied it when I was serving in the country government and as president of the Bustos. I know it's important, and I'm glad this bill is released. As we have considered earlier, there has been a call for a clearer code on public transportation as well as on this matter of fulfilling EU regulations and of importance that we do not slack off in it. I trust there's a way to match both of them, i.e. The unique situation in Iceland in our small population and then fulfill the requirements of the EEA Convention. We've only been close to the city line in this hall, and much has been discussed in the community and the important work being done in the capital area, and I hope we can get into it on the committee and go over whether the bill will also explain the frame of law to such projects. There has been a little call for such a project to change the law. It is a question of whether any of the things here can meet them. There's a national and local experiment project to promote public transport. They have been very successful, but they can be done better if necessary. We need to improve in this regard, i.e. increasing percentages of people who make regular use of public transportation, because as it has been inserted here, it is very important. I'd like to get in touch with throwing it up to the Bustoze B's roll. The largest public transport company is about 7 billion a year. Some 800 million of it is paid from a government fund. The rest comes first from rural society and as a fare income. This is just public transportation in the capital area and, of course, is also the travel services of the disabled, who are public transportation. When we talk about the importance of it, I agree that it is important for local governments to organize this service, for at the state level, we are more close to the population and perhaps better organized as such, but there is reason to wonder where the cost of public transport is to land and what is the right exchange in those materials. If I skate a little bit over the factors I saw in them, it's spoken of in pars. The bill that the law applies to passenger transport in the case of automobiles that are recorded for nine or more passengers. I know that there have been comments to that. Perhaps specialised cars associated with travel services from the disabled, they are often ready for fewer passengers, and I think it is important that the law also handles the situation. I think we should take a good look. I agree with what's been said here about the private rights and the importance of being watched by the whole network, not by extraordinary means. I don't know if the senators generally realize that it is, that I think, good ballans, if I allow myself to swerve, or balance in the private business, and then the introduction of the government when it comes to public transportation where a large part of public transport is actually fired by private agents. This is an invitation. All of the country's so - called settlements are vehicles owned by a private member at the market, and the workers are their employees. It's been invited out. Yet, rural communities have this right to organise the system and make it available. The same is true of Bus in the capital area. About 40% of all the wagon fleets are owned by a private driver. But it's time for this important thing. In order to maintain a powerful network of roads and public transportation that are useful to the people of the country, I think it is necessary for a public party, in this case of rural society, to do what is planned for the system. Of course, it is urgent that there are some ways that can be taken that are well - supplied from the system as such. I wonder at 11. ...of quality and technology requirements. We need to be careful about this on the committee. My comment is that what has been discussed, especially when public transportation is being discussed in the country, i.e. Seat belt and license for standing passengers. It is stated that the Grouping Room will provide guidance in this regard, but we need to take this discussion. It's always there, and it's all about how we agree with these factors. I welcome the change that has taken place in 15. g., it's said to run a business every five years, but at least at least every ten years, because on past proposals, the bill was shorter. It is important for those who offer this service to have it in the long run, for making such an investment is a matter of buying and setting up the entire situation. It takes time and time to do so. Also, there is a discussion that might arise about 18. gr., about the rights of disabled and motion - stricken individuals. They have stressed that the bioavailability is more difficult to use when it comes to the national street cars. This may be the nature of the case, since they are different. So I think there's a good reason, I can't see that it's in the bill, looking at the driver's authorization to use money fines when cheating on the system. It is not available today if people have fake tickets or maps or other types of guilt. It would have to be handled in some way. But that's all I have to say about this bill. I look forward to working with it on the Committee, and I trust that we will have good cooperation with stakeholders and take care of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u42	Madam President. I came up here to answer a minister and was so depressed for wishing to be the highest. A minister in his first administrative bill and his contribution to the Icelandic language found it hard to congratulate the president on his initial project in the Presidential Sea, thanking her as many of the other immigrants as possible for their contribution to Icelandic society. In my opponent earlier, I entered two small scenes that I noticed when I was shooting through the bill while I looked with one eye at Ævar, a scientist on TV last night. I can imagine it's like a whale. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in earlier; this is a huge case, and in even the smallest of such cases, pitfalls can be found. I hope the committee takes a good time to consider that, as we have discussed earlier today, it is not only important to introduce the EEA principle in advance but to introduce it well. A minister will be told that this is a direct introduction. But it turns out that this may not be necessarily the case. As I pointed out earlier, there's a fifth. The bill requires confirmation by the operator here on the land, which is a significant trial from the EEA Convention. This condition requires confirmation in any EU Member State but should have activities in a Member State. A minister said that in the Ministry it was important for the Icelandic government to say, have authority over the people who work here. I'm really worried that this is going to go against the rules to come in. I think this is the pressure due to the fear of a lawsuit for the EFTA Court, potentially pushing too fast and harsh. I expect the Council of Congress to call the EFTA Advisor and get this straightened out. Because it's important, not just bringing in in on time, but making a good impression. A minister in his background concluded that part of these decisions would be something that might be a little of a strain on the end of the day, there would be little effort on the part of a foreign operator in the move. I encourage them to the highest. A minister to use some part of his vacation to visit popular tourist areas because it's because mine don't know exactly what to do. The number of buses that drive through the streets of Iceland during the summer months is made out of Europe's continent, making practical use of the means of paying foreign drivers less money than Icelandic people would be offered. The object of these foreign parties is, I think, more than a minister would like to be left in his transmission address. For the other thing, reading the bill has led me to the other thing, that local authorities usually have a regular passenger transportation. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has come to understand that here they are concerned that the market presidents are moving to some service as normal and, in fact, more efficient, is culminating on the grounds of the public, that public transportation in scattered areas and out-of-ways 1 and 6 in the capital area, as well. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson gave such joyful comments earlier, leads the seats of public citizens, and be driven by losses, while private people are seated in places where the number of passengers is enough to make them profit. Now, I have little to say on this subject but perhaps to celebrate especially at the end that a minister has the bill, including To suggest the introduction to the European Protocol for a common railway passenger transport, which hopefully proclaims a beautiful future with a more broad range of transport methods than has been here in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u43	A respectable president. I want a 1st. To briefly distinguish them from my viewpoints, to the contrary to many other things. Councilmen, that I have no particular concern, neither as a sponsor of professional freedom nor as an environmental protection, that there will be too many who will seek to take many people on buses. I don't have any particular concern. I don't have the right to worry that the patents won't stay narrow enough. I think that although they can apply in some cases, we should use this arrangement, which, of course, is a personal arrangement. It's easy to say that Iceland is one public transport system, and better ways should be used which cannot be achieved, but I think that the principle would be better if it were used only in those situations where it certainly could not be dealt with other means of public transportation. We have experience from a similar arrangement that was available throughout Europe some decades ago, where all the elves were locked into special spots, and air transport was driven largely by government dictators with the appeal that a more efficient means of supporting services should be provided. Then, much freedom was given, with much protests, but the result is much better for all to fly. I don't think we should be especially concerned about this. I will rather work on the Committee to take care of it, as I understand it, that this principle is not so much different, that freedom competition takes place where it is appropriate, and that we allow it to flourish, thus taking advantage of the opportunities here to increase the number of tourists and others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u44	V.E.G. President. Congratulations on your new office as President. I want to thank all environmental and transport committees involved in this discussion. Now we're going to meet to speed up and reach more efficient jobs by getting reviews about the bill. So that's the way it is that next week it's a ballot, and that's why I've had a meeting in my lunch break so that we can accept those who would be a potential protagonist of the bill. This is only in order for us to be able to accomplish this thoroughly. I know that the Committee will certainly get deep into things, and it is good to hear how much people have strong opinions about transportation, which are extremely important to us Icelanders, far between places, and often in the wilderness, or about the wild, so this is not just a matter of transportation but also a security issue. It would be a great improvement if we could make it to the point at some point in the near future that public transportation would be done to a greater extent than today. I just want to say something. paritaprevir Arari, Trausti of Guðmundsson, who spoke earlier of a great deal of saving. But public transportation is not just roads. They're on a plane, too. There's a great field plowing ahead of us. But I'm going to make it work, and I'm still thanking you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u45	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize a change to public penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, about insults to foreign princes. The bill's forwarders, along with me, are why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir J. Sigfússon, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Orri Jóhannsson. This bill is neither large nor large. In 1st. Simply put, it says: '95. ' par. The law will pass away. Two. The bill says: "It's the law that comes into effect. I'm going to use my speaking lesson here today to discuss this 95th paragraph. which I and my importers would like to resign from the law. This bill was submitted to the Council of 145th, but it did not succeed. It is here reassigned with a modified and more detailed report. Before proceeding any further, I'd like to say that there has been a case before at the General Assembly, which has to do with this law. At the 120th legislature, i.e. The 1995 Council of 1995-1996 held that position. Councilmen Svavar Gestsson, Stegirdur J. Sigfússon, and Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir proposed the proposed bill to become the greatest counseller, chief of princes of 1 mg. Ninety-five. They'd be taken away. The proposed bill was that the editor of an Icelandic magazine had written the fistula of Russia's Russia when he was about to be beaten to the ground. As a result, the State Ministry made a comment on the writing. That bill didn't get paid here at the council. The 143th and 144th legislatured the Council of legislatures. former senator Sgt. Hrafn Gunnarsson, along with others, present the bill for the execution of prison penalties for the expression of opinions. That bill took over 95th par. general penalties, as well as their various articles. Nor did that bill get a gang walk here at the General Assembly. On the other hand, the bill I recommend here goes beyond those above the above and simply suggested a factor of 95. a general penalties dealing with insults to foreign princes will be canceled as a whole. During the recent years, freedom of expression has been quite limited in many parts of the world. The freedom of journalists has been impaired, and governments in individual countries have tried to eliminate criticism, and this has even occurred across borders. In this context, as recently as last year, the German government succumbed to the pressures of the Turkey government and authorized a lawsuit against an entertainer that had been disrespectfully spoken of by President Erdogan of Turkey. This decision is generally thought to have been highly regarded for the German government and for its freedom of expression. The decision of the German government was based on laws that apply in that country and included punishment for dishonoring foreign rulers or kingdoms. Then, a debate arose in various European countries on the rights of such laws. At this time, the assessment by the European Safety and Cooperation Agency, in cooperation with the International Press Institute in Vienna, is working on legislation on the protection of foreign heads. I'm aware that I've been in contact with the representatives of this organization who are very interested in the development of this case in Iceland. In 2002 the European Court of Human Rights passed judgment on the French newspaper Le Monde, which ruled that special protection was unnecessary in a democracies society. Following this sentence, the Icelandic jurists expressed doubts that it could be judged by the 95th paragraph. The penalties in light of Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. Madam President. Ninety-five. a general penalties involve a very severe penalty for taunting foreign kingdoms, princes, or national symbols, such as flags. It is then specified that the embassy is forbidden to attack by violence or to cause property damage on the embassy or its property. The laws that protect the dignity of foreign rulers have rarely been used in this country, and even less have passed judgment on their foundation. The few instances in existence have, however, been particularly acceptable to the country and to the country. Thus, author Thorberg, Þórðarson, was sentenced to call Adolf Hitler a blood dog and made St. Steinarr for dishonoring the swastika flag of the German Nazi party. I think it's safe to say that the story was rather soft on these crimes. I would like to state that there could be no misunderstanding about the fact that the general penalties are younger than these examples, but they were judged by comparable regulations, not exactly by this word. On the latter part 95. The article "Appreciating Distinctions to the Letters " is a monasteries added to the law in 2002. On that same winter, three young men had been reported guilty, and later they were judged on the basis of the 95th grade. penalties for throwing a gas bomb at the U.S. embassy. The decision to accuse the act on the basis of the law of insult against foreign nations and the heads of state became controversial and is difficult to understand from 2002 except as an attempt to protect that decision afterward. This section of the Law is in the opinion of the one being completely unnecessary, like the first part of it. There are other laws in the law dealing with vandalism or arsonism or incendiaries. This bill has drawn all the more attention today than when it was submitted a year ago. The reason is no doubt the introduction of Donald Trumpur as president of the United States, but the president has been severely criticized in speech and literature. Similarly, his rule has resented the criticism that has been brought upon him. It is my belief that there is now hope for a good solidarity to be achieved in this case here at the General Assembly. So I would like to suggest that the case be followed by a discussion here today referred to a 2nd review. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u46	President. I thank the senator for his story and support this matter wholeheartedly, would have wanted to be a cohesor of this matter. I wanted to draw special attention to the fact that even though we take this step down, we continue to be responsible for our words. The responsibility is not being carried out by law. When we speak from the platform or express ourselves in a talk or in a publication, we stake our name on it. When we choose words to describe other people, it is our personal responsibility. In the setting of anonymity, which is very common today, this is only a more complex and questions about how to follow people in that situation. Also, I was wondering if this had anything to do with an earlier leader. If I were to say about Adolf Hitler now, ▪Adolf Hitler, is a bloodhound, would I be in serious trouble? I don't know. Am I not in trouble because in general, he is not so highly respected? Is it reasonable that the law takes into account whether this is a bad man or a good man or so? It was the measure I had, the effect this would have on the future, if I had, for example. Trump criticized him before he became president, not after he has stopped being president, how this would have affected him then.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u47	Madam President. I want to thank you. To begin with, a member of the opposite body and his general support for the case is to say that I consider speculation. A senator be important and good. I wholeheartedly agree that words bring responsibility. Freedom of speech comes with responsibility and a love for freedom of expression. I believe the 95th grade. is absolutely unnecessary because there is an entire section in the general penal code, XXV. A chapter relating to mismanagement and violations of privacy, which should be considered as essential, can be reported on by people on such grounds. In my opinion, national leaders or heads of state are not to have any special rules about themselves. As is true of the 95th grade. it is a much harder penalty to insult foreign princes than to have an abusive attitude toward citizens. Of course, princes are in positions of authority, so they should be able to protect themselves and, on the other hand, for their position as well as to endure discussion about them. That's why I think this article is totally unnecessary. I also find it important to say that this bill does not indicate that princes should have special protection. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The same is true of all insults regardless of whether any of them consider them to be right or wrong. [[The president calls.]] In fact, there is a secondary issue on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u48	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill and thanking a traveling overseer for his history. All I want to do is discuss the loss of freedom of expression and the risks of a dead and out - of - date law like the ones that this bill intends to replace. This reminds me of a time when officials in Iceland were forbidden by law. The European Court of Human Rights had to be abolished as a result of the European Court's decision that Þorgeirson's son wrote about police officers and their practices in his day may have offended police and government officials despite the fact that they could even prove what Þorgeir had to say about the police. In those days, we had a law code that called punishment for insulting officials, whether the statements discussed were based on evidence or not. It was simply enough that undisclosed officials would do so by some comment in a public discussion. In particular, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that honest officials should not have the priority over the freedom of expression by the citizens. The law was changed after that. Like what? In his speech, the Court of Human Rights has also published legislation that protects erring foreign rulers and shows that this is not enough of a reason to cut the freedom of the citizens' speech. In this context, I would like to review to the United Nations the perfunctory and legal conditions that governments and authorities need to consider if they intend to compromise the freedom of the citizens. As we know, freedom of expression is with us all the most fundamental rights and including the protection of Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. It presents the conditions that will result in a violation of the freedom of expression. First, the decline is legal, second of all, that the legislation is based on a certain grammatical basis, e.g. to protect honest people, certainly, but most important, the legislation and the impairment that are intended to be needed in a democratic society. That is the condition that the Court of Human Rights has usually had to evaluate whether or not the rights of the city have been restricted. We must ask ourselves, " Is it necessary in a democratic society to restrict the city's ability to express their thoughts to foreign heads? ' As we all know, I have the right to call Donald Trump the President of Fascist, misogynist and racist. In view of this, I am protected by a constitution. I must not be accused of this comment except by the permission of the council. But this does not apply to the civilian population. He is still at risk of being held accountable for his actions and is not protected by the Constitution and the Generals when expressing himself on such important matters as a person and the actions of foreign princes. I think it's very clear that we must eliminate this article of public penal law, which is why I support this bill with a complete mind. In the same way, I believe it is very clear that it is not necessary in a democratic society to punish, to punitive imprisonment, to insult foreign princes, for what is considered an ecstatic insult. If, as I have tried to show, we could prove that the actions of Donald Trumpur, his words, and his actions gave evidence that he was a fascist, a misogynist, and a racist, would it still be possible to prosecute me if I were a public citizen if I could prove myself to be true? This law does not accept it. And then I just want to discuss how dangerous it is to have a dead law code like this, i.e. judicial decisions, especially in the laws of penalties, which are not used but still in effect. This twofold principle causes the city's rights, which do not know whether it will be used against it or not. It's in there, but it's not used. What does that mean for me and for my case? Do I have the right to offend foreign princes, or do I risk being called to account for that? I don't know that when these laws are still in effect. On the other hand, there is a danger of violating an equal rule when such a letter of law remains the same as it is not applied at all. It does not take much to weaken the city's legal standing if a government decides to prosecute one, rather than another, for a law that is not all used. It is still available to use them. Then there are various ways in which governments control the discussion, affecting the cities. It would be enough to threaten to use this letter of law, though it may not be pleasant for a relevant official to do so, but it can always be threatened and applied. This is the problem with such laws that are rarely or never used, but they can still be used. It endangers our legal state, endangers the rights of the citizens, and thus violates the general rule that we want the citizens to be in the right. Thus, I feel that it is absolutely necessary for us to put out these out - of - date regulations. I also hope, Madam President, this will be just one step of a lot of people in the direction of improving my freedom of expression in Iceland. There are various regulations, both in penalties as well as elsewhere, that impair the freedom of expression. At the end, I allow me to mention that one of the principles that indirectly contribute to this is a law that will legalize the European Convention of Human Rights in Iceland, where it says that the European Court's judgments are not bound by the European Court of Human Rights except when it comes to individual judgments against the United States. It's hiding, for example. in which the judgment is as good as any. A senator referred to earlier against the French government has not included a similar change in the law here and there. He has not caused us to take this law out of the law here or to say that the courts here are obliged to follow the instructions given in the court to set out in a law forbidding insults with foreign princes in the matter of freedom of expression. In fact, it could be referred to the number of sentences that have been committed against Iceland in terms of freedom of expression. Though many have been represented by Þorgeirson's son, we have now seen some in which the Supreme Court has received reproof from the European Court of Human Rights for not evaluating whether freedom of speech, especially journalists, was needed in a democratic society. It is an evaluation that the Supreme Court and the Court in Iceland have refused to do so in spite of the clear orders of the European Court of Human Rights on this matter and despite the fact that it is very clear in the European Convention that in order to restrict the freedom of expression by the citizens, there must be law. It must be a complex basis for setting this authority up in the law that is also listed in the European Convention of Human Rights. It is not a matter of question as to what a controversial viewpoint it is. This is necessary in a democratic society. I would like to submit a legalized proposal for the European Convention on Human Rights that the European Court of Human Rights will increasingly be taken into account in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I hope there will be one part of many in promoting both human rights, but one of them mostly and, of course, the freedom of expression from the citizens of Iceland in connection with this bill. I can't wait to get this case on board of the General and Education Committee and thank you for making it available. I'm here to support this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u49	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdósdótir for her speech and manager of the case, why? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. I think it's worth a lot of effort to take up a discussion about these matters here at the Hall, even if there's some debate over how urgent or urgent it is because we may not be able to say that there is a great threat to the abuse or abuse of this law at the moment. But I wanted to ask you why. paritaprevir For this reason, Thorhman's daughter, Ævarsdóttir, on the grounds of whether she had formed an opinion or taken a position that included. Regarding these matters, which were presented by the Ministry of Education last year. They were produce a substantial commission that involved a wide - scale expression of freedom of expression. In the early posts presented on the Ministry of Education site in the fall, if I recall correctly, September likely, there was a difference. expected a breakdown of the specific regulations, but also a considerably more extensive change, in the course of the penalties, to release other issues that have to do with freedom of expression and information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u50	A respectable president. I've heard of these proposals of the Ministry of Education, and I've heard them very well, but I have to admit that I have not done enough research myself. However, I know that my colleagues are well involved in these matters, and they may better address them below. But I may have to take a little thought. A candidate in the beginning of his talk that perhaps there is no particular need to correct it now. I simply reiterate the views I mentioned earlier, which are that it makes the city's rights to have a law code that is not all equal, but it may be applied, for example. unpleasant political opposers, therefore, are quick to rise. When it comes to civil rights, it is good to have a living underneath it. I find it very important that civil rights have a priority and that they are given a course as often as possible. If these suggestions include removing this law, I think we can take the lead in euphoricism and put it out right now and then take away the rest of the Education Department's proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u51	V.E.G. President. I hope so. A senator did not understand my words so that I would be minimizing the adjustment in the law presented here. I thought, however, that in view of the historical record, it was proper to remember that this particular law would not be facing an impending threat by suggesting that it should be removed. I would like to see here that I support this bill's aim to remove this law, which I believe is at best an inheritance from the past. However, what I wanted to draw attention to in this discussion is that we Icelanders are faced with this task, I think, taking a matter of freedom of expression, legislation on that subject, and the application of freedom of expression, to a much greater extent than this particular provision of the penal code. I wanted to use this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that already a considerable amount of work has already been done in this area and that it became publicized in the autumn and gives us the basis for continuing our work to make our legislation better not only with the human rights covenant to which we are involved but also with the attitudes of human rights and expression that exist today and to take into account what technological changes have become. Of course, this does not change the princely rule, but it may be necessary to look at matters from a different and broader point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u52	A respectable president. I thank the counter and take heart that there is an interest in a member of the House to participate in giving this bill a success as well as the emphasis on improving freedom of expression in the country. I look forward to continuing work on this and hope that a respectable senator will also see the benefits of strengthening the legal ground that the European Court of Human Rights would have in Icelandic rights, where it will bring about a grand legal compensation in Iceland for citizens, according to my knowledge. I'm bringing up a case like that. Hlynsdóttir Hilynsdóttir and other journalists who have taken their case before the European Court of Human Rights and received a judgment against the United States as a result of a violation of journalist freedom of expression, we would not need to see repeated judgments on the exact same issue. European Court of Human Rights has failed to follow clear evidence of how to ensure and enforce the right to speak of individuals in Iceland. They must simply take into account the recommendations made by the European Court of Human Rights, which is, of course, the highest court of interpretation in the European Convention of Human Rights, which has done a very important and very good work when it comes to building the conditions we would like to set for the loss of freedom of expression and human rights. I hope there will also be a part of this review. While it is not only freedom of expression but all the rights found in the European Convention of Human Rights, I believe it would be a very important requisite to administering the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights to a considerable greater degree in Icelandic justice today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u53	A respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to protect honest politicians from national or foreign people. I'm thinking of a particular case in my old country that has something to do with this. So the homeless man cried out inconspicuously that the then president of the Polish Republic, a word that I am not going to leave, either in the original form or in the translation of them in respect for this meeting. But they weren't beautiful. This was brought up by the prosecutors of the land and came before the courts. It was an international human rights organization that took part in defending these citizens from courts. The defense was based on words that I will not forget but will always honor when it comes to speaking against my own actions as a politician. The Helsinki Institute, the agency that took this protection, described the defense in such a way that it was the city to express his opinion of the President's office by the word he was tamed into. This is what we will be through public authority and we will get used to it. People often express themselves strongly, in a way that they would not speak to family members or friends. But it is not necessarily a matter of looking at us personally. It focuses on our work of office and the way we exercise official authority. I see no reason for elected agents - or reputed agents - in this state or anyone else having any special protection in this regard, and I will therefore support this matter. Then there's a question of how urgent this is. There's always food. But I think there are two reasons why it would be good for us to take advantage of the time for this meeting to accept this matter, and I'm going to mention it. First, like the people who came after us, we should conduct our legislation in this hall. Not good people, bad people. There is a certain mental attitude that I sometimes try to cultivate. Of course, this law is no problem if everyone who is going to rule Iceland today and the future will be good people who see through their fingers with minor expressions and public comments against foreign heads. But if people get here that are worse, it'll be a lot easier for them to have that law than not to have it. Second, this is important, i.e. to send a certain message to the world. That those who are responsible for such laws in other lands have the only example of witnessing. That those who read Wikipedia articles on the insults of foreign rulers have one line less to point out when arguing in such ways that it is not unprecedented in Kuwait or wherever it is that humans maintain such laws. Happily, other countries are taking similar steps. It is a pleasure to see that Germany, who recently had a problem with this, in order to put it mildly, in the case of Jan Böhmermaður, quotes from what I understand as to the same regulations. It would be a pleasure if Iceland became the next country that followed. I'm on it. Get that thing out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u54	President. It's just so nice to come back to meet you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek said I couldn't resist. His words made me think of the very opposite: What if I commend people or heads of state who do not deserve them at all? Is it not an insult to the people who would feel hurt if I commended, said Trump, or Hitler? Would it not be just as bad to have such a law? I wanted to make that point, using it as a reason to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u55	A respectable president. I admit, I don't fully understand any position. A senator is seeking. I will not recommend laws as fine people for commending foreign rulers, even if they do not deserve them. That's right. I don't think I have it any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u56	President. Yeah, I just wanted to put a word out of it because it's a bad word. A senator made me have this idea. I wanted to give him the honor to dedicate it to him. At least I think it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u57	Yeah, I appreciate the occasion for evangelism, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u58	Madam President. I thank you for this excellent bill, as well as for the fine discussions that have taken place in both speeches. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszeks and Thorries of Sunna Ævarsdóttir. What I want to do is that to this point it has been to the understanding of international political workers that there is a measure of courtesy. Now, though, the age seems different. Clearly, the time for diplomatic courtesy has passed with Trumpur's takeover. He has repeatedly crossed all lines, both in the media and in foreign conferences. And he can, although it is desirable that he does not. Of course, di·loʹa does not produce the desired results unless one treats another well. Similarly, members of the United States may be able to say even ugly things from this platform, things that are strictly forbidden to the public. I could, for example. According to Ilham Alíjev, president of Azerbaijan, it is a coward for not having dared to appear before the European Parliament yesterday to explain why he has been incarcerated repeatedly in research. I could also say that the head of the Philippines, Duterte, is a loser because of the way he responds to criticism that he presupervises the ruthless slaughter of people. I could say that Kim Jong-un is a madman because he wastes the limited resources of his country and his people in building nuclear weapons and building up military forces while the nation suffers and starves. I could also say some ugly things about May May, which British folk singer Grace Petrie may actually have done on behalf of us all when she pointed out that May May has opinions about family forms that are not relevant for the time being. I could do all this. I'm not gonna do it anyway, because it may not be appropriate. You're supposed to try to keep some diplomatic courtesy. Likewise, I will not have Pútín, or Trump, or Mugabe, of Dos Santos, and Al Khalifa, and Lúkasjenkó, and Castro, all these men. I'm also going to skip talking about al-Al-Sisi and Mumago, so I'm going to try to pronounce it right, and all the foreign princes who treat their people, their nations, their offices and their roles, and who treat humanity badly. The problem with so many civil laws that we find in public penalties today is that they place the rightness of criticism and political debates in society in a very unusual way. For example, when Jiang Zemin arrived in Iceland, it was offensive to the president that he saw over his head to the practicers of Frann Gong, who protested the violence they were repeatedly abused by the Chinese State. What kind of insult is it when you suddenly have to get the buses in front of a president so they can't see the people? There is a lot in general penalties, which is a time error and should have actually been a time error at the time, in 1940, when these were set. These laws that punish people in order to protect the sensitive anger of the princes, whether they are tyrants or democratically elected, unless they are both, abandon the delusion, the folly, that rulers in any way reject criticism. It's not. Not at all. While they may be criticized, it is individually a matter of opinion, it is not in the court to decide. What a tragedy it would be for the literature of the world if the laws in Iceland were in force everywhere. Think about it. That would be awesome. One danger to these laws is that they could be restricted. The correction is very important to me. Factors such as Saturday Night Live and South Park, who actually walk out on embarrassing majors, could technically be banned in Iceland because of this law if someone tried to follow through on it. At times even the Icelandic TV shows and populars, radio shows, and so forth, have been quite close to crossing this line, just as the spa room that in its own time passed over the line that did not seem appropriate to anyone, to offend the Christian god. True, that hand was corrected during the last assembly when the bill broke. Pirata Helga Hrafns Gunns son of Furnar of the ban on blasphemy was passed and approved. You ask yourself, " What kind of law is it that when all of a sudden it is permitted to ridicule gods, not tyrants? ' In 2010, the Allied Council agreed that all of this should be changed, this should all be fixed, and bills to fix not just this point but a number of other aspects of the civil law have remained in the Ministry of Education for a while. I've asked you a question to the highest level. The Minister of Education on how these bills have not come forward, and I expect a good answer to that. I expect that too. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgitta, the daughter of Jónsdóttir, runs through his talk. I hope this particular bill, which is now being discussed, is rapidly and definitely through the council, which is as if it were anything but set in the table, but it might be even better to get the four prime returns to Iceland's expression of freedom now gathering dust in the Ministry of Education for the inaction of the Ministry of Education. Minister of Education for the last council. I'd love to have the bills and, actually, more that have been under development, but if you're not ready, the whole course will be the fastest. Madam President. I get away with much from this platform that is not allowed in the community. True, I try to adjust the way I use that right, for we are to look out for the diplomatic courtesy, but I think it is important that we balance a little right of the council verse to the public in terms of insults and politeness requirements. Politeness is to be the attitude that people choose to take voluntarily, the attitude that people feel is right because they have earned respect, not a rule that people are required to follow. Sadly, some of today's rulers are not worthy of respect, that's just a fact. Let us not use our bad laws to protect them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u59	President. I welcome the changes in the laws presented here, but I would have, as mentioned earlier in a talk by others. Pizza, would like to see it done in a complete way. It's a bit shocking that we're in the position of being slow and biting to try to fix one and one fault of a law that's falsely offended. But since the Ministry of Education has not yet been submitted to the council, I believe that there is good reason why we will handle this case as soon as possible and there is no need to wait until springtime for the spring work being done here. After researching why the four deliberations of the Ministry of Education have not been established, I understand that this is because of the short time the Ministers had to study the matter when a new government began a recent session. I don't think there's any reason to cross that information. But I would love to encourage the highest. A minister of education to present the following cases on the Web site of the Ministry of Education, which was installed on the Ministry of Education on September 9, 2016. It can be noted that the work around these bills has been under way since 2010, and it is now 2017 and long - term, as shown in my colleagues'talk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, about to validate what the council has already decided must be done. I'd like to point out my excellent colleagues and potential students of this discussion later on on, to the four basics on the Web site at the Ministry of Education. They are found under the headline of a four-programmers on the freedom of expression and information. First available bill on communication laws, No. 81/2003, and criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, for decommissioned data storage. This is an extremely important matter. Another bill is about changing the law on electronic business and other electronic services, limiting the responsibility of the host. It's a very important bill, though it sounds a little sad. If we do not change this, it can be said that the number of people who are already hosting data in Iceland has not been sufficiently protected. Then I am, for example. talking about information that may have been saved by the U.S. authorities and hosting scientific facts about global warming. It is vital that we begin to update our legislation to what very many think it is already. The third bill is a new layer of defamatoryness. I'll only go over that bill afterwards. The fourth bill is about changes in public penalties, No. 29/1940. It has to do with the protection of hate propaganda. I encourage senators to study these bills, and I find out from the speech I've heard here that they don't even realize that already the government has been approved to commit these laws to the government and has already done so by the government. A bill for misdeeds laid before the Council of 145 C.E., in 2015-2016, is proposed some of the most important changes in law. It's a whole-scale legislation that deals with everything we have to deal with when it comes to the important democracy's cornerstone that this country is a state of true expression and freedom of thought. In 1st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Anyone who deliberately or imprudents another person's character through insult or indignities should be paid for errors in the light of the blame, the nature of the recommendation, and other circumstances, as well as the benefits of financial damage if this is to be done. However, there is no improved responsibility if expression is considered legitimate because: 1st is a set of values expressed in good faith, which is solidly based on available facts, to the extent that, for example, the same is true. Talk about Donald Trump, ▪2. It has been shown that comments are consistent with the truth, 3 Even if the above statements have not been proved true, the individual had good faith, had sufficient reasons to drop them, and made them clear to the proper degree of caution, or A fourth reason for reproach was the disobedient conduct of the person who feels that he has been offended or who has paid similar rewards. A person who is involved in the spread of defamatory remarks from others is responsible for the same rules as found in 1. .................... a number. 2 mg. unless another means of law or other legitimate reasons recommend that you avoid responsibility. 2.g. It is claimed that the requirement for such a thing is to judge a thorough statement that has not been proved, for there is no validation. Section 3. Prominent to appeal according to Article 1 and 2. is six months after the comment. If a comment is published publicly, a six-month period for a lawsuit will begin when a comment is first published publicly. Section 4. Foremostly, the dead are married to each other, partners, parents, children, children, grandchildren, or siblings of the deceased allowed to demand the same terms as stated in Article 2. Section 5. The 95th verse, to which we are dealing, is to be taken. par. &lt; 1st cells/mm3 and b•c domains 1 mg/m2. 242. gr. the law of the law of the law of the law will be removed. Section 6. is the traditional: ◯ This law will already come into force. I'm going to go over the notes on the bill, because that's very good. T-minus entrance. A head of the Ministry of Education and Culture on the basis of Congress resolution 23/138 states that Iceland has a distinct position on the legal protection of expression and information freedom over a period of time considered how to improve legal matters. The Court's opinion was made on whether it was right to cancel punishments for delinquency. Justice development has been examined in other countries. The bill suggests that a law of delinquency will be passed from public penalties in a special law in the private court field. This is of utmost importance, and it was the basis for a recommendation to the Ministry in its own time. The law will also be moved to our modern - day view. That is just as important. ▪ Rights here on land, international standards and trends in other countries. The concept of honesty involves two factors. On the one hand, it is the thoughtful ignoble, or self - respect, and the objective glory of others. It is generally believed that the antiquated attitude is the idea or judgment of the individual's worth. The laws of ancient times have been protected by older humans. Defensive protection can be taken from the 71st. The Constitution, compares 8 paragraph. European Convention on Human Rights and Various Judgments Supreme Court It is based on the view that a person's reputation is part of a self - image and personality that is part of his personal life. the law. There's talk of horseplay in 3rd. 73st. The constitution, under which it allows to limit the freedom of expression to protect good people. In the general law of penalties, there is an act of delinquency. They have not made any material changes since the Law was given in 1940. 234 st. discusses insults. These insults refer to disparaging remarks that do not succumb to indignities and that can lower your opinion and hurt your self - respect. It is more about the cowardly than about the objective. Since 1995, when major changes were made in the European Commission section of Human Rights, more than 30 court sentences have been taken into consideration as to whether they are offended. In half of the cases, punishment was required but never accepted. Regarding indignities, see 235 and 236. a general penal law. It is a form of proselytism that has fallen to the person to whom it is directed in the opinion of others. In general, accusations are considered more serious than insults, and they include accusations of criminal punishment. Over 40 cases since 1995, the Supreme Court has had to decide whether it is in question. Only once has the Supreme Court judged punishment. On February 11, 2010, this was the date for a sentence of 100,000 dollars. A fine. 241 st. The law of the law of the law of the law of the law states that if a man demands that which was wronged, he can judge the impossibility of the decision. The insignificance of recommendation has been regarded as the mildest of the recommendations available when a statement has been deemed credible. Thus, they have not been considered to be penalties, although they are found in general penalties. The options were long known only in Denmark and Norway outside Iceland. It has now been removed from the Norwegian law, as it has been later. There are, however, many areas in which necessary measures are needed, such as when the court declares that a comment is unmanned. An unsigned statement has been defined as a rebellion for the injured person and confirmation that a statement is meaningless. The general rule is that true comments will not be punished. There are two types of anomalies in the general law of punishment. These requirements are rarely applied. In short, the criteria that have been developed in the European Court of Human Rights can be rephrased in expressing freedom of expression and injury as follows: Rich protection from freedom of expression, the freedom of the media, and the information rights of the public, is a cornerstone of a democracies community. Therefore, strict demands must be placed on all restrictions on such freedom. This is especially true when the media play a critical role in dealing with politics, government activity, and other influential people, or other matters that concern the public. Relation of expression freedom is required, according to Article 10. The European Convention for Human Rights meets three basic requirements, i.e. That it should be based on law, serve legitimate goals, and be counted necessary in a democracy. The laws involved need to be clear enough to help the citizens understand their duties. Foremost protection is one of the legitimate goals, so it is permitted in itself to maintain legal measures to cope with injury, and it can even be considered related. This includes the requirement for moderate exercise. For example, severe punishments against injuries may involve a violation of Article 10. The distinction between values and facts must be made. Can't stand by 10. The European Convention on Human Rights requires that there be a basis for an adverse judgment. On the other hand, the requirement for a valid judgment to be set forth in good faith and to have some support in existing facts can be set forth by the law. This special protection against politics is based not only on their nature but also on freedom of thought of freedom of thought under Count 9. European Convention of Human Rights. When expression is part of a public discussion of issues that concern the public, it does not stand against Article 10. The European Convention to make clear a requirement for proof of recommendation, even when it comes to facts. In such cases, however, a claim to comment should be made in good faith, and reasonable caution has been shown. In the case of the media, the European Court of Human Rights needs a special basis to relieve them of their normal obligation to verify facts that are credible for individuals. Whether such a basis is available is largely dependent on the nature and severity of the stigma and to the degree of normality that it is reasonable to expect the media to rely on their authority. The more serious the claim, the more reliable the basis of the facts must be. In evaluating legitimate references, they should be considered, not isolated, but in relation to the discussion they are part of, purpose, and status of those involved. Now I'm done with my time, unfortunately. I'm going to go over this bill a lot because I think it's very important, and I'm still going to go over it with you why this bill and the people who made it suggest that it be ninety-five. would be removed. But if this bill doesn't start coming in here, let's just get going to finish it. I want to thank you. A senator who is the prime speaker for setting it up for us here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Árnadóttir For bringing up this matter. Congressmen in general have left green for taking the initiative in this important matter that I care about. Pirates and I are generally very concerned about freedom of expression and overexpose existing laws that overdo it. Like what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir came along well, there's still a case at the table of advice that leads from the very bill, which is very important to succeed. A variety of improvements, e.g. Injuries of the law, like what? A senator crossed. I would like it to be softened personally, to be more aware of the circumstances and the shape of comments made, to consider whether a review has been brought back, how much doubt as to their truthfulness, etc. But okay. One at a time. This specified law, i.e. This particular article of penalties, 95. g., is truly out - of - date and all - reason to eliminate it by means of the very first? Even if it has not been widely used in recent years, it is always possible, perhaps in view of the circumstances that we live on the world scene today, where there is a special basis for challenging foreign princes and chief rulers. It's always been, like, a cot. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came in earlier, but I think it is important in general that this article will be removed and rejoice that we will use the present circumstances to get it done. It is important that we, in our public talk, get the full freedom so that whoever we really want to, and especially foreign princes, will be dishonored. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if I understand this correctly, the entire article is suggested not only to taunt foreign princes. The article says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Anyone who publicly dishonors a foreign nation or a foreign state, its chief ruler, its ruler, its flag, its national flag, its flag, its flag, the flag of the United Nations, or the flag of the Council of Europe will be found guilty or imprisoned up to 2 years. If I or anyone offends a foreign nation, a foreign country, if I say that the United States is not doing quite well enough these days, it can also be against these laws. And not just that. If I don't feel that the flag of the United Nations is beautiful or well designed and that I openly express my opinion, it is in the general penalties to defy this flag, the Order of Order, by permission of the President. So we're in the Icelandic Allegorium installation of the 'Fun With Flags,' with Sheldon Cooper or 'Fjor, with the flag of Viktor Orri Valgarðsson as I would like to call it. This is the flag of Europe adopted by the Council of Europe in 1955 and the European Union adopted, or the European Community, as it was in 1985. Actually, I think that flag's a little loopy. I have to admit it. It's kind of simplistic and simple. It's nice to tell you that 12 stars are in the flag of 1955. Many people believe, because the EU Member States represented the Member States in several decades. But it isn't. The stars were originally suggested to be 15 which was the number of members of the European Council who first adopted this flag. But Western Germany protested that one of the member countries of the European Council was the Saarland of each state, and independence was debated internationally. They believed that giving stars represent Saarland would recognize their disputed sovereignty. I might object that this fine flag is a symbol of oppression, even of the city's independence campaign on the part of Western Germany at one time. But I can only do so from this public address because it is forbidden to taunt the flag of the United Nations or the flag of the Council of Europe. Now that I've started, the United Nations has a blue and white color. This represents natural peace, that laurel leaf, is not it? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] And here is a map from the North Pole view, which is very clever because many world maps are very Western or Norwegian. It's certainly a little bit northish. But my friend Atli Jasonarson has made it a privilege to take over the years to wait on Facebook to design a new flag, a national flag, or some kind of flag. The ideas have been all kinds, and the products in my opinion have been exemplary. I asked him back in his day, some years ago, to design the flag of the global government, if necessary, i.e. The common government of all countries of the world. As you can see, that flag is somewhat like the flag of the United Nations and is exemplary. It's a world map, though, a little bit Western. Here is a dove of peace, and the white color represents the glow of peace, as the laurel leaves do. But I'll disgrace this flag, not the other one. Which is obviously a very pernicious and important law in the general penalties of the Icelanders. He also created a flag of a reorganized Kalemar relationship that I also think is very clever. It mixes like you can see here with a few northern flags. Maybe a lot of colour. But I'm not allowed to say that the other flags are ugly. This may be some of the fun of it, but it may also be to call attention to the folly of this legislature who says it would be protected, by presidents, or by prisons, up to 2 years ago, by challenging the flag of the United Nations or the flag of the Council of Europe. As mentioned earlier, I support this matter wholeheartedly and thank you for taking the initiative to make it available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u61	A respectable president. I take a silent note mainly to thank you. A senator's hour here is in the public address. I thought, because he specifically mentioned the flag of the Council of Europe, an example of one of our prehuman beings at the Hall of Congress. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, for a time, was a member of my party, but then he was bored and ended up at the forward party. [[Foreground: went before the rocks.]] Went before the rocks, how do you do? Hey, buddy. He was also chairman of World Visions for a while. A market campaign held a world view. And now I'm showing a picture of the flag. This is a sticker published one summer by World Vision, which has been printed by the European Union's flag, I would say they want to claim, with a red bar above: EU ◯ no thanks. It was sold to the farmers of the country to tape a cane. I wonder what. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson is, in effect, following in the footsteps of Ásmundur, the son of Einar Daðason, former boy. A senator, in his civil disobedience, taunts the flag of the Council of Europe on a public level. It's natural who has to judge how good that company is, but the change in public penal law is my support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I think this is a good question. I wondered about similar matters, but I hadn't seen this context yet. Thank you. A senator for pointing out that. I wondered if it was up to you. A former senator realized that he was not only saying no to the flag of the European Union but also to the flag of the Council of Europe, which is actually meant to be a score of Europe's European Council, i.e. This is the flag of Europe. Those who claim to be Europeans, not Europeans, but then put red across this flag may not fully understand what they are doing. If I'm walking in his footsteps, I don't know. Politically, I don't think I would like to, but you often mix with people with things, such as taunting the flag. I have also wondered, in the law, that it must not taunt the flag of the European Council, but the European Union uses the same flags, whether you break the law if you taunt the flag of the European Union, and in the context that you mean that it is now the flag of the European Union, but now it's the flag of the Council of Europe. [[A senator takes a picture of a flag.]] [[The Senator takes back the picture of the same flag.]] It is a question of how the Law would be interpreted in that context. I don't know if we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi will test it while this law is still in force with some sort of lawsuit against a former senator, but I would not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u63	A respectable president. Yeah, this example of ex-whisper. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Daðason naturally shows how absurdly this law is, that it can be reproached, but he says that it is not the flag that you are reproaching, but the flag that is legally maligned, and that when you protest a relationship that you are sincere in heart, it is not a good thing to say that it is possible to protest, although it is hidden only to put a stick on the bat where it appears to the common people. This is a ridiculous example showing how ridiculous the legal profession is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u64	A respectable president. Perhaps it shouldn't surprise anyone that I support the bill presented here, being one of the carriers. It might be more news if I stayed here and took back my support. It's not. In itself, it should not be necessary to extend this discussion much, but I intend to allow myself to do so. Some in the community have called it a small matter, pretending it didn't matter. We heard what. Ármannsson This may not be a priority, even if it does not come about in the modern situation that we now enjoy that this law would ever be applied. But to me, this smells like something bigger and maybe the manifestation of a particular situation that I've thought would be on our mind. Hv. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson studied the article suggested to be released from penalties. In fact, no more reasoning is needed than to read that article. I'm going to allow me to read it, with president's permission: ▪ Anyone who publicly dishonors a foreign nation or a foreign state, its chief governor, its flag, its national flag, its flag, its flag, the flag of the United Nations, or the flag of the Council of Europe will be found guilty or imprisoned for up to 2 years. Now, because of much infringement, that prison is up to 6 years old. So it is possible to be sentenced to prison for up to six years to taunt a foreign nation or state, the highest ruler, the ruler of state, the flag, or any other recognizable national flag. It's natural, so crazy, it really doesn't have to be discussed. Not long after this article in the general law of justice is an article on spy matter. There, the prison line is up to five years when there is help to spy out a foreign country or spy out. Now, I'm not going to encourage us to begin to focus our efforts on resisting the espionage, but I think that we've often been a bit of a spade on that subject, if I let myself go, by the permission of the President. However, it is natural to assume that for a foreign country to be espionage, there are five years when the rulers of the State are punished for up to six years in the case of severe insults or slights. Who's going to appreciate this? There are supposed to be courts. The law has everything to do with people's taste or the language of their business, bad. Later, in this article, the president's permission states: ▪ Any who shame publicly or otherwise commit shame, other insults in words or actions, or in any other act, shall suffer any similar penalty against other employees of a foreign state who are in this country. And then finally: ▪ Any who threaten or wield authority against the ambassadors of a foreign state in this country, who invades or damages a embassy, or threatens it. If I'm in charge, for example. I'm breaking the same branch and the same line of penalty that if I stand in the public square or do a magazine interview and offend a foreign ruler. It's natural, so let me say it. First transporter of the bill, huh? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, covered what is behind the bill. I just want to talk about it on ideological terms. Although this law has been in penalties for some time, and I have to admit that I don't quite know when it will be there, but it's been there for a long time, I think it's very appropriate to give special consideration to it. Here's what we got. Councilmen spoke of the need for an overall review of general penal law. That's fine. We are to be regularly revised in the foundation of large legal groups that deal with certain issues, such as judicial action. That is to be done as members of Congress somewhat on a regular basis. But I think this way, especially to discuss this case here, of the good, for it gives us an opportunity to discuss only what is behind it, and to connect it out - of - date with the discussion we live in today. We have witnessed in recent days and weeks that some have been shocked by what has been said in this discourse to a foreign ruler. It's just like it is. There is nothing to be ashamed of when someone is stumbled by the use of others'words. There is not much more involved with personal person and personal preferences, upbringing, language, attitude, than just scandal. Those who are shocked by certain use of words to President Trumps of the United States may be those who have not used to speaking of the President of the United States so far. However, I do not doubt that from here on out of this platform many times were spoken of in the same way if not worse terms for presidents of various countries over the years and decades, if not for centuries. Isn't this over a century, a century and a half? Something like that. In some cases this has not been taken to the point, for it has been a rather general agreement that the rulers of that country were now half-made sons of bitches, allowed by president, and deserved this expression. In other cases, they may have been from the political side that there was no particular interest in the presence of Communist leaders or simply countries who taught themselves by Fascism. What I think was following this discussion in the community right now was that in this case the U.S. heads of state fell, who have so far been in the mind of some sort of a pillar of freedom and democracy, although not all of them share that view. At least this has given me reason to ask myself, " How is political talk and social talk common? ' I have thought that there is a problem in general about how much we tend not to speak clearly. It seems that it is now foreign to use dictionaries rather than to say what we mean. There have been debates in general politics. Who knows what left/ right means today? We're not really talking about it. I hope you'll be patient with me even though someone may feel like I'm out of the background on this bill, but these are the reflections that have started with me on this. I think the more we discuss things, the better we are in a position to reach a conclusion. The more we discuss how we feel about matters and people, the more clearly we give our opinion, our suggestions, and our course, the greater the likelihood that there can be a ideological basis for these topics. The more we use dictionaries that no one knows what means - a system change or something, what that means, liberal, liberal middleism or what it is, there are probably a considerable number - the more difficult it will be to discuss things on a ideological basis and to reach a conclusion based on a mental discussion. If you can hide behind a word, it is harder to reach a conclusion. The bill on this subject is actually the opposite of what I'm saying. They say we no longer have to be like a cat around a hot grin when we say how we feel about foreign heads. If we feel something about them, we just declare it, don't have to dress it up, and put it in a suit that fits the boundaries of the law, so that those who have ornaments in their power will have the best power to pay, for they can say everything under a rose that others need to say. It's the simple rule, the law around it. Let people say what they mean. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek here gave a fine illustration that moved me and many in my room that I believe, of the fact that a Polish man was charged with insulting the ruler and that he had just expressed his opinion of office by the words he had lost. In the end, it may be what it's all about, having respect for the language of others, the way people express their thoughts. Now I've tried to put my thoughts here in words at the time given to me, hoping that there's some thread in it. In the hall, all of us have spoken more or less about this bill. I understand that a large majority of members of Congress are at a business council, and they're bound to be discussing some good stuff, but this case is about to come back to their discussion after being referred to by the committee. I rejoice at the support that had come. Senators before me have described the bill. Again, I say if we have to go to another kind and further review of general law, we'll just do it. But this matter continues to be supported. This unique article has more to do with us in our time than it has often been in the past. We will see that in the years that follow, there will be more and more reasons for applying this article, if it is legal, if there is a will. It should not be as if someone looked at people and influenced their conversations as if someone might step up and use this long, out - of - date article. In the case of the French daily Le Monde, the European Court of Human Rights points to the need for special protection in a democratic society. In fact, it should be clear to every person that nothing special needs to be protected. And as noted in this report, Icelandic jurists have expressed doubts about the possibility of judging by the 95th paragraph. In light of Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. Finally, I want to express special satisfaction with words. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's claim that in some way the judges of the European Court of Human Rights would have an impact on Icelandic legislation, so there is no need to bring the Icelandic state to justice against that court again and again. I express my support for that thought and that such speech is being developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u65	President. Words go. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér made me think like a word. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks, and I wanted to talk to you about it. Then there is a definite expression that would well describe it, as if it were a word. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks caused me to turn the matter around and ask: Should we not forbid people to offend nations by commending bad leaders? We should probably rule out praise for bad national leaders because they might be offended if they are bad, just as it is forbidden to offend national leaders today. It's a bit of a fun game. But the conclusion I get from a talk. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér is, in fact, a law against being honest. We are forbidden to be honest. Hv. The senator would correct me if I said so inaccurate terms, or would I perhaps meet the nail on my head? I'm not quite sure. I'd love to hear his opinion on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u66	A respectable president. Yes, it's a very exciting day in life. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. It's a privilege to be a part of it. Now I'm going to have to be careful with what I'm saying. The talks and discussions at the General Hall have not always raised up discussions of such a philosophical nature as they do today, that is well. Yes, in a sense it can be said. A senator there hit the nail on his head. Now, of course, I can only speak for myself, like all who express themselves on what they think is normal in conversation and debate between persons, because it is entirely individual, bound to every individual's taste. I try to behave my own way of life, so that the honesty will be the result. But that doesn't always mean I'll tell the truth anywhere and at any time, because it also includes social situations, my upbringing, what I've been taught about right and wrong, consideration, etc. In the foundation, it is about whether it is allowed to be honest about what it says, in this case of foreign rulers. But like other people's relationships, you're naturally bound by the traditions and customs of society and your own. I hope so. A senator understands what I'm saying. But on the ground, we met. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, that's the nail on his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u67	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for this. It was a fine tour of those speculations. Of course, I take into account all the criteria that were valid. A senator mentioned. The goal is always to try to be as accurate as you can and to communicate your meaning in as clearly and clearly as possible. Of course, you try to avoid words that arouse feelings in the other person, leading to a mistaken view of what you were trying to communicate. In spite of all of this, it can be like the odd example. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek mentioned the Pole, which used the words that he had the letters, that was his most accurate statement in his opinion. In that case, his listener or his target was offended, but all other words would likely have been worse to convey the meaning. The man could choose no other word than the one he chose. He tried to be as honest as he could and at the same time to be as polite as he could. Sometimes it just doesn't quite work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u68	A respectable president. These are interesting speculations. Not to be overlooked is another law of public penalties involving abusive speech, hatred, and hatred. Is it in penalties or...? It is not quite black or white, though philosophy sometimes wants to make it sound that way, especially in two minutes' answers. But in general, the clearer and more honest we are when we express our opinion of things, the more I think we will fare. We can use small examples of our environment. This morning we had questions in unsubstantiated queries to the minister, as often as we did before, without intending to offend any Minister, as they may not be bound -- it does not fall below the 95th par. At least, which we put here to be let down. It would be easy to argue that some responses to a minister we listened to this morning have not been presented to the precept that good discussions are best presented in such a way that human views are expressed bluntly, honestly, and as simple as possible. Thus, there are ways in which people discuss things with one another and how much people are willing to inform themselves about their views or how full they are to complicate the real meaning of empty words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u69	A respectable president. It's good to step in a plow at the end of such a philosophical discussion as the preceding one and perhaps not be surprised because the case is quite large. We're talking about a basis for communication, in this case between individuals in this country and foreign heads, which is primarily about freedom of expression. For us here, we may find it awkward to talk about an archaic code of law when it comes to dealing with people who have certain positions of respect. Here we always dress in a certain way when we step in a necklace. In this room, we are the most respected or honored fellow workers, and we do not speak just as people speak, and we do not necessarily dress as we do every day, but this is part of the working environment we have created ourselves here in this hall, not a law set aside to determine whether we may offend foreign national leaders, which are often more insulting than most people. It has been said that there are many dead regulations in the Law collection. Even if they are dead, we cannot be sure that they will not survive, as it were. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek mentioned and mentioned many times before, he often mentioned it in the administration board's work, so when we're writing rules for society to look into the future and imagine what a seriously ill-enforced leader would do with the tools we're building. So it is with 95. par., it has been used, and it can be used. In that case, she is not dead, she is in hibernation, but she can be used. We have regulations in general penalties. That's the 95th fart. is not general but particularly specific. It reaches foreign national and national authorities and heads of state. We're talking about 500 people in the world who could possibly die of this at any given time. General penalties should be general as far as possible. If we need a specific law, we need to support it in a specific way. The reason to keep this in the library is because I can't see. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir did a fine job of reviewing the overall review that would be desirable in these matters. I agree with what. A senator said that it would be a wish for us to accept freedom of expression rather closely and dress handsomely. Or it could be to revise the penalties thoroughly rather than to fix one and one defect, such as the other. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir said, but while we're not making a full review, I'll accept that we get rid of the problems. I'd like to mention two that we've been rid of in recent years. The first is a law that allowed medical procedures on people to prevent them from increasing their gender, so - called delinquency. In 1938, these laws were set up as part of a humanitarian policy. Above all, they focused on forced sterilization, or abortion, of people who were in public hands, mostly disabled, here on land. I don't have the numbers straight, but we're talking about large groups. These laws were cut down somewhat in 1975 when the forced abortion was taken out, but it remained a law letter that had certainly not been used for years by governments that authorized the intervention in the lives of individuals to remove their gonads so that they could not increase their gender. Although that was not used for 30, 40 years, there was good reason to dismiss it. To this end Álfheiður proposed the daughter of Ingadóttur, then the highest. Healthcare Minister, forwarding a bill, which was quickly approved by the World of Congress. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has now pointed out that it is still expedient in the law of law when it comes to legal law on abortion, where a legal person may force the person to have an abortion. We can see that the death of the law letter sometimes lives an amazingly good life, even if it is in hibernation. Besides, I'd like to mention another one cut off at the 144th legislature. I got to be on the case and, of course, voted with it. All non-one senators did so. That's where I'm talking about a small change in general penal law in which the then 125th par. The law fell away. It was the blasphemy code, another small law that had to do with freedom of expression that had certainly not been used for years, but it had ever been applied in a vague, even questionable purpose. It was not so difficult to imagine an evil government that would misuse that law code, such as that. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek mentioned, because it had happened about these laws. Why shouldn't this happen again? This bill of Helgi Hynns Gunns Gunnarsson of Guns, then senator of Pirata and others appointed by Congress party of Pirata was a national agreement. I was sitting in this room when it was taken for the final payment. There wasn't much disagreement about it. I hope the same will apply to the case we now discuss because this specific law will protect one particular group that does not need special protection because we have a law that covers murder, which is easier to define than insult or triviality, or whatever it is that an offended national prince could do. I look forward to seeing this issue continue in this assembly, and hopefully it will be accepted in the end. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra A year's Árnadóttir for taking the initiative in this case and bringing it, and the entire council of the left green, into the council. I'm not in the case, actually, because at that time my deputy was a member of the council, but I would surely have been one of the couriers if possible, for this is a clear case, a justice, and a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and particularly thanks him for bringing up the law, i.e. the illegalities of abortion law, sex education, and other matters that are included in the code of law that assumes that a legal person can force an illegal woman into an abortion. It is a letter of law that has not been used for a few years, but it is still in effect. The same applies here, i.e. of the law that we are discussing dealing with this discussion, about insults with foreign rulers. At the end of the day, I might want to help with foreign princes, i.e. Generals over the head, this has been a little discussed in these discussions on this fine subject, that people who wield authority, the more important the discussion is to be endured. This is repeatedly stated in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in order to be a public person who has to face the challenge because people say some unpleasant things about it from time to time. I want to take this opportunity and ask who. A senator whether he finds it not a special reason for him to punish people for not being satisfied with their jobs and whether we, a Senate home, should not come together on a common journey to find all these dead laws that are widely found in Icelandic law and try to eliminate as many as possible to get the best of justice in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u71	A respectable president. I thank the senator the answer and pronounce myself ready for any act that makes the code better and rids us of an illegal, dead letter, and in particular accept what it says about the skin of politicians and public figures in general and frequently. There's a bit of a symptom when a grammatical debate becomes a bit rough, which likes to be when people are making big and in control of decisions, it's just a part of the debate, then the skin of a politician is very quick to write off the discussion as personal and unpleasant and something that is not worth answering rather than taking on his role in politics, which includes. is to deal with difficult discussions because we are at this job to make changes. Such changes will not always be completely satisfied. I thank the senator for pointing it out in his earlier talk that not so many years ago it was forbidden to insult government officials in this country. It seems like a fool's idea to me that if it were to form a law against insulting politicians. Then, naturally, we need to have the humble attitude of public discussions, public figures, politicians, and representatives of the people at the council, able to approach the difficult discussion with an open mind, speaking only from the heart. This job is now about honesty. If we work accordingly, we are to put up with a little criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u72	A respectable president. Thank you for a great discussion on this fine subject so far. I'd like to add a little more to what we're discussing, i.e. standing by freedom of expression, that it takes not only a good legal arrangement but just what we have to do and what we do not do. A senator is dealing with criticism, being able to handle perturbably as well as irreprehensible criticism without trying to block or suppress people's rights of expression. It can take place by means of a course other than a law or some form of penal code. In our society, I have noticed, but of course it's worse elsewhere, but still, it's worse here, in contrast with the cooling effect often referred to by the European Court of Human Rights. Which is already present, e.g. The rulers of the nation strongly oppose those who express their views, even threaten them, discuss air attacks, or other matters when the media are naturally maintained. There are many ways to block freedom of expression, which is not merely a penal law or an escort to it, but how we, in our own society, react when we are spoken against or when our interests are spoken against. That's why I want 'em. A senator with me, and, as most members of the council, to protect the freedom of expression on more means than just to legalize, but by keeping the right of everyone to express himself about us and our work in any way convenient terms, we should not always attack the discussion when we are being criticized and the package, but we should try to focus on the contents as best we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u73	A respectable president. During the last term, one went down. The senator was to establish a positive body of senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u74	I'm not in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u75	I'm not sure that it's the democracy that we're always positive. We need to be able to be negative toward bad things but always objectively. What the Senator is discussing, however, leads me to wonder if the company of pesky senators should be more direct, senators who tolerate the media to criticize them, especially those in the council, especially ministers, those who can handle the most power in the Teflon Society's room, yes, because it is so important that we are not going to undermine the media, that we are not subversive in public conversation, as the senator says, to talk about air attacks in the face of normal conversation. [[Teflon Society.]] Or, as President Donald Trump of the United States is doing very regularly now, now last of all, by claiming not to believe in polls unless they come from the media that pleases the President. This is what I think is something that we may not necessarily have to establish a society around. This is something we show by our actions. I, like the senator, will try, it's always a challenge, you have to get used to it, you have to learn to water for the discussion. Of course, we should be able to do so. And, of course, we are expected to do what we can to get the discussion to that level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u76	President. It's been a long time since being in a Senate hall. I just wanted to make some things that I couldn't do before. I wanted to review these explanations on this very fancy bill that's waiting to be moved by the highest level. Secretary of education. The key changes to the current law in the new law contained in the above are that it will no longer be permitted to judge people for dishonoration. It's very important. Then, in view of the European Court of Human Rights, the legal requirements that have been developed on this land and on the basis of the judicial action of the European Court of Human Rights are expressed in the Law itself. At the same time, a number of laws that might be considered out - of - date, such as scraping words, are removed to appeal to public cases due to injury to public employees and authority to judge the amount of money for the release of judgment. That is a suggestion for regulations 95. G., of the special protection of foreign countries, of their heads and of their international organization, will be removed. On the other hand, such comments as racial prejudice, insults, and stigma of family members are not presented to make changes in matters that describe a more serious expression of punishment. While this is not specifically stated in the directive, the laws of this field should, of course, be clear in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and of the international covenant bound by the Icelandic State. But I would like to follow the discussions that have taken place here to draw attention to the fact that although I am not overly concerned that this law is still in the law, not at all, there are other concerns. I am much more concerned about how the courts here have been used to silence journalists, how the more powerful, and those with enough money have dealt with individuals, even for blogs, even journalists who have been writing and reporting on powerful people. The more powerful have drawn these people to courts, very expensive, and can simply place individuals who are not powerful in a serious financial situation. I have also noted a very serious attempt to be silent. Today, there is much propaganda against RUSH and for many years, but it is getting heavier and heavier. Surely, there the chieftain Donald Trump has attacked the media without letup, attacking the mediamen who dare to criticize him, and even those who have amendments where powerful men are taken. This, in turn, has paid off to us and to other lands. It is easy to say that freedom of expression is a big blow, which I am deeply concerned about. Of course, this proposal is a very good cleansing of out - of - date laws. So I would like to direct it to other members of Congress that we take a special effort to clear from the law we are here to follow, all sorts of out - of - date phenomena. We need to move the law into today, for it is not only that the law is no longer working, and there is a general lack of confidence in politicians because of the number of casualties - just as we have seen in the new social security laws, there are an extraordinary number that can least share with those that have fallen between us. Yes, of course I support this case. However, I think it is very important for us to do real work in fixing out - of - date and dangerous laws. While there are laws, people can be punished. That's serious. Finally, I'd like to reiterate my gratitude to what it was. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir for calling attention to a matter as important as the freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u77	Madam President. I'd like to go to the end of the 1st. On this matter of Congress, which is about the killing of the 95th grade. Out of the common law of penalties, to give thanks to them. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. I heard no better than that all those who spoke up, whether in speech or in reply, were not opposed to the bill or even declared support. I think it's a good idea and a promise of the continuation of this case at the Council and I'm going to allow me to be optimistic on behalf of it now that it goes to the council. I'd like to thank you for what the discussion has been on the subject but at the same time in a variety of terms, for this has been discussed with the pact of breaking down of this law in order for people in positions of authority, national leaders, to have no more legal protection than the common people. I think it's important. Then have a what? Councilmen also allowed themselves to be on philosophical terms and to speculate on various aspects of this matter. I think it matters because there's been some very good tip here, to give a picture of what's happened. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, of various laws that depend on the freedom of expression by people who need to be viewed as collective and more comprehensive than in this small legal bill. I think the discussion here is an important part of an even larger discussion and a good dub for more discussion. I think it's so important and right that we can make it. paritaprevir In his speech, Andrés Ingi Jónsson listed a number of microspheres that had been out of larger laws, which, of course, are also extremely important. I really hope that with this short bill, at least in word, we will be able to clear out of the legal collection a law that is absolutely unnecessary and at no time at all, and that we can also provide the discussion of the freedom of expression and democracy of success and that it is a responsibility to participate in an informed discussion in a democracies society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u78	President. I recommend a bill of a change in corporate law. At 2nd. Section 8. The law will add new proverbs: However, no charge should be provided for electronic checkup in the file, and all information should be displayed in an electronic lookup. This is a very small but very important change. A similar bill was presented for Council 145, but it did not succeed. This bill suggests that SMEs' information will be more accessible to the public. It is suggested that there should be no charge for electronic reporting in an enterprise file and that the same information should be available there and if there are a copy of the data available from the registry. For example, it is now possible to obtain information about the governments and account of your peers by paying for them. Therefore, it has to be that it is not available to the public. This is the most important step in making the possession of an enterprise valuable. media have e.g. Worried about not being able to perform its information role just because it took a little too much to get information from a company file, just because the data for one story cost 50,000 bucks. - the story didn't appear, it never came into existence, and the public grew poorer as a result. Without access to the data, any other changes in transparency will become ineffective. There are other things to do. It must be ensured that shade control cannot be made, that only registered owners or subcursors who have a legal responsibility and who have access to companies are those enrolled; that there is no legal way to do so without reporting. Proposition of the ex-whib. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bögals, of the advantage of property, stated that mutual ownership, ordering, and vague identity were one of the reasons why corporate economy was swollen out, they could use gaps in the system to hide how much they really were worth. This change is small, but it is an extremely important first step toward responsible participation in enterprises and partners in open and productive society. I can take an example. We can consult a phone book for free, but we can't turn it free for similar data in a company file. However, the information contained in the P.R.P. is not particularly involved in a phone book. This is information about a wall of money. A wall of money is built in front of the data, and this prevents the transparency otherwise guaranteed. It's a fake transparency we make up right now. Information that is fenced with walls and gates that must be passed is not available to the public. On the simple and rather obvious note, as I believe, I suggest that this bill be forwarded to committees and 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u79	Madam President. This is a very important bill and it's a good bill that's being submitted here. I say that as an importer, I have felt that few cases that have been presented during this council were equally important. It is very difficult to realize how important it is to have complete and uncontrolled access to corporate data. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned the previous phone book. I think it's a good example because you don't think about how much national interests are spent in the public and accessible list. How would it be if it were only 10 k? to look up one number in the phone book, if you have to register on a web and pay for this bitch? All the effort would be necessary to eliminate any current flow, i.e. when people are no longer able to explore things in a simple way. A corporate file is very similar to a phone book in this regard, but the interests may be larger. For example, it would have been much more difficult for us to study the Panama Documents at the time if there had been no access to corporate records in various countries, the source of the documents, e.g. correspondent in Britain And actually, because the Panama Documents naturally refer to Panama, Panama's company file, and I say, on one side, was open, i.e. it was open to the point that individual enterprises could be opened but could not be searched in general after e.g. Governments and such. It was actually opened by the Dan O'Huiginn, who reached every page and created a program that read from it into a database that could then be searched. As a result, researchers were able to expose considerable property to which Leylu and Arzu Aliyeva had many places around the world, the daughters of Azerbaijan. Also Friedrich Lindenberg was able to open the company record of Mauritius recently, thereby showing an enormous amount of cross-cutting on companies, including in the heads of the nations around the world, and especially in connection with the awesome mining rights of both Mauritius and the rest of the region. True, he did this especially by ordering documents via e - mail, asking for business files in a healthy way over time. But in both of these cases, it did not cost anything, but there was a technical barrier to access. To illustrate the actual cost-separated situation, it would be the PCER database that was used in the United States. There is a database in which every page of explanation and data related to judicial matters held at the United States federal level; it cost two to five cents per page to download data from that database. In fact, pages are completely meaningless to computers. Computers do not have opinions on them, and the cost of keeping data in a database is that there is no one. Nevertheless, it cost the few. It was Aaron Schwartz, who had enriched a little by selling a web company, who decided to use a considerable amount of their wealth to obtain the millions of pages from this database and to publish them to the public; which made it possible for the possibility of major success in the academic world to investigate judicial cases in the United States. It also made it much more cheap for the public in the United States to be able to administer justice and defend their interests in court. This is an incredibly important factor, and even though it is actually a legal basis, it is equally important. The fact that individual journalists take some kind of mountain back to get public information and reveal it to the public and everyone benefit from it - it's natural and good that it is, but it's an inexhaustible way and bad use at the time of people who might be protecting public interests or investigating crime or what it is now. We should seek to eliminate this unnecessary need, both in our country and in all parts of the world. The primary cost of documenting this data is some, but the expense of copying it, whenever someone wants it, there is no one. Of course, it takes something to keep computers going and to keep some sort of system management on it, but in large context, these databases need to be run either way for the legitimate activity that the governor and other government agencies need to operate anyway. Opening this to the public means that there is no extra cost. In addition, it costs 140,000 dollars today. More than anything else to record a new partner, which is in my opinion all too high compared to, for example. Germany at a cost of 10 euros, or United Kingdom, where it costs 15 pounds. However, this high cost should well cover the small cost that comes from taking electronic data provided in standard form and putting it into a public database that needs to be done anyway. Once that cost has gone, it can no longer be claimed that it is the cost of the State's institutions by ensuring undisputed access to the public. What we make back at an assembly is that it is generally available to all people at all times, e.g. to facilitate business ventures, especially where companies work between countries. That makes them business inexpensive and safer. Now we have all kinds of rules that require that you know your client. This is in part to prevent money theft and all forms of abuse, some abnormal financial attraction. When the company record is public and the ownership is known, and the managers of an enterprise are known, it is extremely difficult to argue that there is some kind of incomprehensible lack of consciousness when people are actually involved in engaging in illegal activities. It also enables the opening of companies all the checks in the public and the media, and any person they want to promote, through public purchases and, in particular, in the form of exports, easier. They can be properly expelled and such supervision is much easier, since all the interests of the matter are very clear. I'd like to say that making Iceland's National Institute of Bank will be a good step forward to transparency. Today, at the tax manager's office, I believe, is putting the file electronicly on the Internet in a way that can be accessed into some sort of web store and to buy the data it contains. Keeping working as a programmer for many years and having received an excellent view of the Internet and corporate records, out of my last job, and public shopping, I want to mean that the costs of such a web site, with all the complications of having to accept all the credit cards and work from them all and be with baskets and orders and all the packages, will not be so great that all filing in the next 10 years - because some will be reluctant to buy, because the media cannot buy for all the companies they want to look at, and only because it's really a lot of people who miss if it doesn't get away - the cost of money that's going to live on this system. On the other hand, there are already all aspects of just publishing publicly and allowing anyone to approach it. Since this exists, as it has to be recorded anyway, since it has to be kept around this database and it costs the development and maintenance of it, I don't think there's any good reason to keep people out of it, especially on the basis of money restrictions. In many cases, when it comes to such expenditures, there is an explanation for them, some real cost. But when we're talking about electronic databases, some kind of charge is usually just a premium to prevent natural access to a resource that everyone could benefit from. There's certainly some personal protection point in this, but it doesn't matter because I can get past all the personal protection issues if I have enough money today. All I have to do is go to the head of the state tax and buy all the documents. It would be natural to say, "This is official evidence. " This is about the actions that individuals are doing in the community, which is an enterprise. As a result, it should only be opened wide, allowed to benefit everyone, allow people to investigate these data as they should. Perhaps the economic benefits of having this record in general will be considerably greater than it is today. I hope this bill gets through.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. My fellow members for a fine tour of the merits of this bill that we recommend here, the Council of Porta, is one of our issues of this council. Since they have done well over the material of the bill and the benefits of bringing it to law - well, I have not heard of any defects so far - access to these important information made available to the public, and it free from what is now, I want to continue with the somewhat philosophical depressions that have been going on at this meeting here today and to face what this matter is certainly turning to, but that freedom of expression. The right access to information is, like, tail. Senators probably know, part of the freedom of expression. We were just here discussing a bill of executional responsibility for insulting foreign princes and taunting flags and other amazing things that are still in our laws. Therefore, I have every reason to remember what freedom of expression is and why it means so much to us. The freedom of expression is of great importance to us in the Pirates. I'd like to put it in perspective with this bill and with the discussion that has been going on up to this point. So I'm going to refer to an article that I wrote some time ago, the freedom of speech in human language, to which I thoroughly discussed these important rights, the freedom of expression. I'm gonna let me read it and start by talking only about 10 g's. The European Convention of Human Rights, which is about freedom of expression. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Each person has a right to freedom of expression. The right to have opinions, accept, and continue to pass on information and ideas at home and abroad without interference by the government. The regulations of this article should not prevent the State from making radio, TV, and movie companies work only on specific licenses. Since these avenues of duty and responsibility allow them to depend on the laws, conditions, limitations, or laws that govern and are necessary in a democratic society because of national security, land protection, or public goods, in order to protect human health or morality, character or rights, or rights, and to prevent public trust or to ensure the authority and impartiality of the courts. A respectable president. I don't see that any of the conditions are met when the public's access is being hampered by information from a company file. That is why I feel that it is important to keep discussing the importance of freedom of expression here in the IIlium symposium. I shall continue in my article to discuss the 73th par. The New World Translation, which says, has permission of the President: Everyone is free to believe and conviction. Every man has the right to express his thoughts, but he is accountable to them in judgment. No law can guide a censorship or similar barrier to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech can be imposed only by law in the interest of national rule or security, in order to protect human health or morality, or by the rights or reputations of others, as these are necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. As you can see, the terms of freedom of expression are similar, although they can be said to be more widely tailored in the Icelandic constitution than in the European Convention on Human Rights. Senators may notice that this is a lack of the rights of Icelandic citizens to share information. Our current constitution does not contain that information right. But let us not despair; we, however, are members of the European Convention of Human Rights. So we can count on the fine conditions there are. But unfortunately, courts in Iceland do not seem to agree with my opinion of that, i.e. that under national rights, the terms of the European Convention of Human Rights are higher constitutions and other laws within individual members, which means that if Icelandic law conflicts with the terms of the Convention of Human Rights, they should be replaced. But this also means that the European Court's interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights of Freedom should have a precedent in Icelandic courts. Sadly, as mentioned earlier, courts in Iceland do not seem to agree with my opinion, since they have repeatedly ignored the attempts of the defendants in the civil war to rely on the interpretation of freedom of expression. The denial of the European Court's definition of the European Court of Human Rights remains unchanged despite repeated appeals and judgments made by the latter. As you can see from 1 mg. 10th par. The European Convention of Human Rights is not limited to freedom of expression to people's right to express their views in speech and literature. The freedom of expression includes the following: freedom to have opinions, freedom to accept information and opinions, and freedom to distribute information and opinions. The government is forbidden to restrict the flow of information and expression within the country, as opposed to the provisions provided in 2 mg of the law. I'd like to add only to our freedom to accept and share information and opinions, which is what our bill Pirata is particularly about. In accordance with the nature of the case, freedom to accept and share information and opinions is to go together, and it is, in fact, the basic conditions for a democratic society. This is especially where we have people's freedom, especially the media, to criticize the government, which is absolutely a requirement for free elections. What we have considered here is the freedom of the media and the public in order to access information that enables them to form an informed view of the commercial situation in Iceland and, in effect, to help the media work in the interests of the public. Like what? Collaborators have crossed this route much less than create some sort of website, where the public is paid to access information obtained by employees who work for the public in the country. While it is not said to spend all of the country's printers on printing out business files, it is simply electronic, there should be no barrier to sharing this information, and nothing should stop this information from being accessible and free to the public, for as we Portars often say, information is essential. Transparency is one of our terms. It's not a big bill in format, but I think it involves a very important legal arrangement for the public and the local media. So I strongly recommend that this case be held as a course for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u81	Madam President. Hv. An early - speaking person said that he viewed this matter as simple and obvious. I want to say something like that. This is a small, simple and, that I would think, inexpensive change that can have a very positive effect. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy did well in his field experience using comparable data in other countries and the negative experiences of people trying to access these data in the country through a cut-off. I would think that the price of public data in this country is largely due to three. First, they are signs of time, an inheritance from the time when, as was said here, to print out information; there was human beings to prepare and deliver the data, so there was certainly some cost justified. Only in the last few years have these changes changed completely, so now they're on the other hand. When the government collects data, especially data from companies that pay for registration into an enterprise file, the file is created with that money. We must agree that it has a database in the national community. He's been financed. And it's pretty hard to justify it in the prince's hand to take out some data electronically. I think there's another possible reason for the currency of this kind I think it's classified. It is very convenient for governments, who do not want undue self - importance in a specific area of human life, to build only a gate with a modest amount of tax; it gathers in such a way that it will be virtually impossible for the media that suffers from a lack of money to collect and process the data and thus perform their role in a democratic society. This shows naturally in such cases as the Panama Documents, where it can get as much data as possible to put information in context yields results that could not otherwise have been obtained. If it had taken a great deal of money, it would have been necessary to go on a vast adventure campaign to draw up evidence that no one would know who was going to be. Then maybe we wouldn't have gone to the election last fall after the Wintris case because it would've been completely locked behind the gate and other secret walls in the system. The third reason for the price gate is just pure politics. It's just the policy that has been fired in this country for years, which we sometimes call a free spirit, that institutions should finance themselves as much as possible. For this purpose, private access could be made, e.g. Part of the activities of the strains. I mention, for example, when the Mosaic Law was changed so that a map version was obtained on a private basis from the Agency. In fact, the law stated that this institution must not produce a printed map. This is Iceland's Map Institute and she must not publish maps, one of the institutions of the country, as she would be competing with the private member who received this bite from the state. Since I'm referring to the geologic readings, I might mention their records. Land information data were, until recently, behind the currency gate of a similar aspect and a company file until political decision was made and then from the left wing. It was Sakgis Svavarsdóttir, then the highest. Environment Minister, who worked to eliminate the payment of national data so that anyone could obtain data on the base of land information could be restricted by open means so that this data could be constructed from these data. The outcome is what everyone knows. When access is increased to wealth contained in such databases, it becomes the source of innovation and further information. It's so simple with the human legion that it extracts something better than the raw material. So I'm excited to see what comes out of the information contained in the company file. Opening the data, making them free - reminds me that the costs have run to 10 billion. K. every year. I don't think it's a high amount, especially because I'm rather limping under a single sludge from a subcontracted constitution to a new constitution, which says that there should be information and evidence available without subtraction and that public access should be ensured by law that all public data collected or supported by government sources. Much of this information is just as shared with the community as it is with other members of the community. It's just the road system or electrics or whatever it is. This is part of what holds society together. It's funded by public funds, public service, and it needs to be rich reasons, such as. Personal protection criteria for shutting these files down. When I say close, I mean, of course, shutting down the credit gates, even if they are moderate. Where would we be, for example? if the information of the Weather Room were behind the price gate, or of the Habitat? There are important data that has been considered inaccessible to lock up in any way; the living room because we're talking about security, but the Habitat because there is a sea of information that people can process, the public, the educated, and anyone, to shed light on the situation in society. The pills up in Haggis are not doing anything on their own. It is when we have free access to someone we can make something of them. So I want to celebrate this bill of Pirata and hope that it will work out. I eagerly wait to see the products that come out of the open access to these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u82	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Much of what he came up to is exactly ideological. In the large context, it is a ideologies to create valuables from something made by setting up a wall or a wall of money. It can be attributed to a direct cost in some way. But what often is forgotten is the indirect healing that I mentioned earlier, that the story did not come about, and the community became poorer, knowing less than it was before. Another example similar to that of geological reading is an Icelandic dictionary. A Web site has been published.is and has a wide range of useful information on Icelandic languages, which is part of a dictionary. It's all our case, but it's still a competition with a private person who also publishes a dictionary. It is very strange that somehow access to information that we have paid together to create, and the product must not be used because another private member is also doing this. There can be competition between here and there. In terms of cost, it would not necessarily be necessary for individuals to pay the cost. He's exactly what he's like. One senator says, paid by companies to enter an enterprise file where the establishment of an enterprise is originally just a form of work. Resuming is being reimbursed and there is a specific cost to the management of the enterprise. Part of it is to have access to information about enterprises themselves. This is very complex, but it is important to do so in the right way and to let people into this information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u83	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator, I believe that social recovery from this kind of information will always be several times the cost we feel in financial terms during the year of liberation. So it should not be taken into consideration. I also thank the senator for mentioning the dictionary because that is where we are back from the same time as when the National Analysis Board was private. As an example of government sales of common goods, the Enlightenment Dictionary of Webster, which for years had been combined with the State for good, was sold when the State could not stand in anything that could be sent to a town for further work. I'm not saying that the dictionary that those private people have since won and published is bad, but it's not available in the same way that a national public dictionary might be. In this regard, there are ideas that appear in the current government's declaration of study books. We have begun to hear the same song that the State is not allowed to run a business that could help us see that private people could do it. I cannot quite imagine how private people will be doing in a study edition in small articles where books often need to be replaced. I think the flea would be poorer if the market elements were to determine what was published for high school and high school students. [[The president calls.]] I am just excited to be able to take that discussion in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u84	President. There are now three companies that sell access from an enterprise registry, gather and place them in reports. It is likely a coin thus lost in dealing with the government tax manager, they are expected to pay something for that access. However, they do not necessarily lose their unique position in collecting reports and connections and graves, etc. about companies they can then continue to sell. So there is a huge opportunity to have free access to public information that other companies can then enrich and make better for potential consumers who are interested in it. Similarly, it could work for the publication of textbooks. Since I used to work at the National Institute of Education, which is a united study and study research agency, I worked on a project where I was trying to create open open, study books where teachers, professionals, and/or students could work together to create textbooks that would be a basis for which anyone can go to and create a program on the phone or something, and enrich it, make it better, and sell it. However, the combined edition of all our work in which we work is always available to all. Then people can prefer it instead of someone with better pictures or things, which individual persons can improve. In time, the refinement will be restored to the museum that we all benefit from. So I see a great opportunity for us to work together to create a common information that we can all use and look at, improve, and renew.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u85	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. Yes, indeed, the government tax manager would come from income. But because we're looking out for the interests of the people in this room rather than for the interests of the individual institutions of the State, we can also set up the example so that the companies paying the government tax manager for a direct access to a company file today will save that money. They would need some innovation in their product development to continue selling their services. I trust them to do so. Similarly, money would be saved in the community by those who attend services in these companies that could be sent directly to the tax manager. Rather than paying access to raw information from a company file, the person gets it free from the government tax manager, so I always think I'll be positive. Although one government agency loses money in the big context, I think that the overall objective and what came out of it would be so much more important. That would be a sacrifice I think all of us should be able to bear the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u86	President. I thank the senator for the discussion and agree with all that has been presented here. The objective of the bill is simple. We want to know who's responsible. I want to know who I'm shopping with. It's not that much more complicated than it is after all. There have been very many examples of what would have been better if we had been able to access this information free, for example. Before the crash. We'd have seen all the cross-country. We could have prevented such a fall as it really was if we had known more, and we could have researched that information at the time. The goal is extremely simple; to know who is responsible, to know who I am shopping with. The cost, as we have seen, is clearly seen in the interest of a government tax manager, but the profit is truly tremendous. If we were to take an example from the collapse and the shock we experienced there, we could have prevented a fraction of the cost. Then it's worth a lot of money. Thank you very much. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u87	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorof, no. 95/2000. My companions are Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Gólnán S. Brjánsson, Njáll Einarsson Trausti Friðir Friðbertsson, Eygló G. Harðardóttir, Árnadóttir Enjörnnafjörðurdótir, Þórunn, Ingi Jóhannsson, Lilja, Sigurðardóttir. It's suggested that after 17th pars. Let the law bring in a new article, 17th par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Parents who need to get maternity aid outside their home After the 22nd. Let the law come up with a new article, 22nd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Parents who need to get maternity aid outside their home It is suggested that these laws come into effect. The bill was first submitted to the 144th legislature and reassigned to the 145th legislature but was not paid. That's not much of a change now. The term "birthal aid " refers to any assistance or service provided by qualified health professionals in connection with future or present birth, and is generally considered necessary to ensure the success of the life and health of a child and mother after birth. A few groups of people do not have adequate maternity aid available in their home, so they need to stay away from their home before birth to be safe at the time of birth when they are born. This may be the case with some situations between this group and those who have the opportunity for birth relief in their home country and therefore do not have to stay elsewhere while waiting for birth. This bill is intended to correct part of the separation. The bill suggests that parents who need to stay outside the home in order to be secure in the area of birth care, and not be able to go by daily distance or geographic conditions, be authorized to start or take birth power three weeks before the anticipated date of birth, which should be confirmed by a doctor's certificate, or sooner if a doctor's testimony is confirmed. It is generally advisable that pregnant women should be near the birth site no later than three weeks before the anticipated date of birth, or at a gestational age of 38 weeks compared to the average duration of 40 weeks. However, the bill assumes that a parent can start or take birth root earlier if it is confirmed by a doctor's certificate that a mother's presence is earlier near her birthplace. Evaluation of the need for a pregnant mother to stay away from her home in order to be safely in the presence of pre - delivery aid is primarily medical. In any case, the birthal aid offered in district hospitals is likely to be sufficient, as is the 3rd proverb for 1 mg. 18th par. Health Care Programme, No. 40/2007. In special cases, however, parents may need to be more specific for medical reasons. It can, for example, be used. applies to the case of multiple births and the predictable complications of birth. It should be noted that the second parent may need to stay away from home at the same time as a pregnant mother. The bill complies with the three-week reporting intervals according to the criteria specified in 2 paragraph 1.mg. Section 15. and 1st. 23rd par. the layer of birth and parent'sorof. However, once you are not sure when your parents will have to start or take birth strength, it is expected that you will have to withdraw from them every week. This may be the case when unexpected events arise that require parents to stay close to birth aid earlier than expected. Otherwise, it is anticipated that either parent will apply for pay on maternity or birth strength in accordance with local laws. However, the bill suggests that parents'right to birthworm or strength will be extended at the time they need to stay away from home in order to stay safely in close proximity to delivery aid. Otherwise, parents who need a maternity or the strength to get birthday aid away from their homes should be placed at a lower birth or a left - strength to use care and association with their children after birth than parents who live in a home - to - house ministry. That situation, as 1 mgr, is the opposite and not the best of a child. Section 3. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which has been granted the legal value of this country by law No. 19/2013. It is expected that during the days of a parent staying outside the home, an extended birth Orallofs will extend, which is usually the period from the time the parent leaves the home to be close to birth care and up to the birth of a child. Because of only one month's pay for birth intensity, it is expected that the length of the birth will be at least one month; yet, if specific circumstances require that the parent stay away from home, it can be studied for two months. It is then assumed that parents who start taking birth intensity until then, due to these circumstances, will be allowed to switch the intake of the strength into an regularly prohibited period. This calls for a change of 6 mg. 14th par. Qualifications Funds and Pays of Birth, No. 1218/2008. That said, I'd like to mention a few more things. As I used to say in my case, this bill, if approved, will correct not the situation in this country regarding access to safe health care. Another factor related to this, if we speak specifically about birth and birth relief, is the cost of housing for those outside the country of the country when they have to spend weeks away from home and even for months before the baby's birth date. That's a lot of money. People may stay three or seven weeks, even longer, away from home and have to rent homes. I know that people are renting Airbnbs. Some have access to labor companies. Some people have family and friends, but not all of them. There is also a problem with having access to other families when even more children are involved. It's not a small deal, and it's very expensive. This is also a point we have to discuss at the council, i.e. how we will fully meet health care laws. We may not quite be able to do so, it may be more Teoric, but we can still get closer to meeting current health care laws, i.e. to ensure full access to health care, so that there is equal equality. It won't. Parliamentary candidates have proposed a health programme that will take into account various geographic factors, transportation, and other factors. This is also involved in giving birth aid. This will take over all medical services, such a schedule would. This is, as I said, one smell of a lot of things we need to think about. Here before this week, there was a very good discussion of health care in the country. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson began. It was very strong, in the case of members of the Parliament who spoke in the discussion, that the construction of health care in the capital area was positive, only sooner than later on, of health care and health care in the country. So some pots are broken. We all know that the health system has experienced it, especially after the collapse. I'm not going, as I've said before, to look for any guilty people, there's no purpose in that. What we need to do is look to the future. What prospect do we have? We need to watch the big movie. I have had many conversations with many about the health system, especially during the last few weeks and months. I often feel that people look at things so narrow, look them out of themselves, and look at the impossibles first of all; no, it's not possible. Anything is possible. If we have a plan, we have a plan, we have a vision. I like it when I'm an interior designer. You come into a sitting flat and there's a person next to you looking at the same apartment: it's ugly, it's impossible, it's never gonna be anything. But as a designer, you look at the apartment, see the possibilities, see the opportunities, and imagine how this could happen, and then you figure it out. It is natural to order a carpenter and a plumber, and all kinds of materials need to be selected. Yeah, well, it's complicated, and it can be difficult, and sometimes you're almost giving up - and I'm not an interior designer. It's the same with the health system. We need this vision. We need to believe that we can go in certain directions and improve our system. On the way, we can find out the obstacles that exist if the will is there. We here at the Council have tremendous power. We have legal authority. If the law is set, we can always change it. Human activity is the health system. The laws we consent to are our laws, this we can change. People say, "It's so expensive and so expensive." Yeah, yeah. It was also shown in the special discussion about health care that things are expensive, but then you have to ask yourself: " Do we save in one place to spend more money in another place? We need to look at our system completely. We can make it better and make it more useful if we look at it from the overall system, not just from the Land Hospital, just from the national or capital health care department or just from the hospital or from the hospital. Let's watch this in the overall context. The bill I recommend may be a small part of meeting people who do not have equality, but it can be met with certain adjustments while we are making the system so that people can be assured of better health care around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u88	A respectable president. I thank her senator for his history, and I express joy in this bill. I believe that living in this position, becoming a prospective and newly converted parent is one of the most important roles of the council. It is enough to take when a new life comes into the world that keeps life together, even when there is no stress on the subject. I saw one of the cases I'd like to ask the senator a little bit, i.e. 1st g., the last case there, by permission of the President: ▪ The right parents for birth must extend at least the time they spend staying outside the home until birth, as a result of a 1,mg, paragraph. I ask because it's very clear, but the birthmark law is not always. If a doctor's certificate shows that mother's health calls, parents may start obstetrics sooner in the current law. If a prospective mother insists on being away from work, birthworm may start one or two months earlier. Whether or not the court lasts, I don't feel so clear in the law. I don't quite remember it being stated properly in the Regulation, I expect it and I hope so. The Senator may know better. But I just wanted to thank the senator for making this clear here on the bill and asking if it would be good for the committee to check the other events along the way, whether similar clearly would be desirable in other similar cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u89	V.E.G. President. I didn't quite understand how to explain this better, if anything is unclear how... [[Up front.]] Of course, I agree with the senator that when it comes to the committee, it is time to consider other factors. But I don't know the regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u90	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill for changing the law on birth and parentorof, i.e. obstetrics. I'm going to start this brief speech, thanks to you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for history in this important case. I would also like to correct the good peace and parapolitic work that is often done here at the General Assembly. There are five members of this matter, and this shows what we are at fault with. People of many, I would think of most things, concerned about improvement in many well - beings, including birthworm issues. This is one of the priorities of the advance party in this council winter, but the first priority is the health program for Iceland, which is what it is. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir came in a little of his speech and explained it. The focus of our candidates is very high on the welfare and health matters. We'll probably all remember that most groups talked about the importance of promoting welfare and health in a recent campaign and found that it was a great deal of interest among the people of the country to be involved. We are trying to answer that call. As shown in the talk of a publisher, this is a change of 17. law, about the change in birth and parent's law, and a change in the 22nd paragraph. Same song. Is it true that a parent's child who has to be given birth aid outside his home will be equal to the children born in the country and that parents can take birthworm on the day of the baby's birth? According to the historian's report, if this bill for a change in the law is adopted at the General Assembly, I really hope it will be. In a 22nd degree. The law says even. that parents' right to birth performance should also be extended. It is very important to consider both of these factors, for a certain group of parents in the maternity room receives only birth powers while others enjoy orlofs, which is a certain proportion of the person's income, as the law is built up today. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, I'd like to go into a little bit of the medical program that we progressive as top priority in this council winter. With the permission of a president, I intend to read only the purpose of that proposal, which is about the following: The General concluded to hide a health minister to start working on a health program for Iceland. The healthcare programme will be implemented in collaboration with healthcare professionals in the medical profession. The use of a healthcare professional will include taking into account geographic factors, such as transport and distance between symmetrical structures. There we come to see that we have medical facilities in many parts of the country. For example, consider Vestafjörður. We can actually view West as an island. There are difficult roads between various settlements that often end during the winter. As a result, expectant parents often have to leave home to receive the services they need in order to keep the safety of their children and parents safe. These changes are being carried out in order to meet this group on the bill. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir presents. In addition, the aim of a panel of health - care formulas to take into account the population development of health - care centres, population ages, the location of medical vehicles, hospital access to hospital flights, number of tourist facilities, summerhouse areas, to name something. The work of health - care programs should consider whether we have an opportunity to improve the use of health institutions in the country and thus reduce the pressures of land hospitals, since over the last few years and decades more services have been being moved to the capital area, often less and more specialised in the country. It has become a development, perhaps for the sake of personnel, and there's a lot to say, and then perhaps because of the technology. I don't dare say about that. Work under the medical care programme includes are born under. It is very important to consider how we can expand our ministry with prospective mothers in the country. We know that in various parts of the country, or anywhere, it is such that it is not even an ultrasound device, and the parents need to go to Reykjavík for waste. How important it is, then, that we keep everything in the medical program to see where we have access and how we can improve the quality of our service to people in need of health care, no matter who it is throughout the country. At the end of my short talk, I would also like to point out that it is very important that this fine subject come at ease. The welfare committee. We already have a change or bill for what. The welfare committee involved in changing the birthal law, which is one of the priorities of a group of left greens. This is a matter of material treatment. The welfare committee. I feel that having them on the committee at the same time and at the same time getting a presentation at the U.S. Social Affairs Ministers and to find out where his emphasis is on the maternity issues, so that it can be taken up for discussion at the same time. The welfare committee. There are many things to watch. It is very important to watch the factors involved in what the bill does. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir suggests that children born far from home will be equal to children born in the home. But there are other factors that I'm going to take a brief look at and discuss, i.e. The ultimate purpose. Social and equal minister for the proposal of the left green in orcs and bill of permafrost. paritaprevir Dögg Dggar Gunnarsdóttir about what we've been through here. That's where we're going to extend the birthworm. Is that okay with political peace? Do we want to have a floor on payment, that it will not be less than a certain amount when people go to maternity school? What's the limit we want? That's a discussion we need to take. The level of birth must be discussed, how high it should be. He's been really low. Do we want to turn it up? It's very important to look into it all. I think there's going to be a lot of discussion about that. There was a lot of discussion about the left - green matter the other day when they were discussing the hall where people wondered about various factors. Me and what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen spoke even. that we have been worried about single mothers who have some not fully used their rights in maternity, since they have not been able to do so and have had to go back to work very early. This is true of single mothers, since the father is not there. We have also agreed that it is very important to take very careful action on that subject, since it is a matter of equality. This is one of our major equality issues that we have won, in recent years and decades, in major legal victories. I'm gonna call it a day. I hope you'll find success in the conversational bill. The well - being committee and the much discussion we have and the support of the committee for those to whom they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u91	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for providing this bill. I take my heart into her earlier words regarding a comprehensive vision and the possibility of reevaluating the health system. I agree that anything is possible. It's just a question of will. What do we want to do? This matter of changing the law on birth and parent's fate so I'm sure I don't understand that it hasn't been done long enough. I checked the website of Iceland's midwives' union. According to him, there is one midwife in Isafandi. Some women on the south side of the West receive aid from birth. It is not unusual for a woman to move there for a few weeks and to wait for birth in a rented home or to live in a relative's home. The same is true in the northern part of the country, a largely distributed district with a wide range of distances. There are two birth sites. In the East, there is only one maternity unit. Women who do not have the option of feeding close to their home need to pay their own resources. This is a substantial cost. It is a home, without pay permission, a mate's mate's travel, and children's. Children need to be removed from school. This is a root of family life. The need to drive long distances and often across mountain roads to attend maternity services, rent homes, take the children out of school, miss their jobs - all of this is costly and create a lot of insecurity. It is difficult to determine when it is best to start the journey, so it is impossible to determine when the birth will take place. I would have considered it a top priority to provide for future mothers so that any extra pressure would be kept in absolute minimum. This is important for the development of a child, for the safety of a mother, for the emotional and economic well - being of the family. The fact that things are like this is over your head, it's bad enough. The least we can do is extend the birth certificate and the birth certificate of these families.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u92	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen very much for her input into this discussion. It is good to hear that we agree, and it is good to hear that more people have strong faith in the ability to change the system. You need primarily faith, perspective, and so much patience. I'd like to ask the senator how she feels about the expenses we've both mentioned in our talks. Now I know that both the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlands pay down expenses for future parents - both father and mother - to pay it fully so that people don't have to pay for anything when they go to birth, because these nations live as we do in a rural country, and women often have to go far away to feed their children. I'd like to hear a point of view. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u93	Mr. President. I appreciate that question. I feel like I have to be equal in these matters. Regardless of how much we do, whether it is possible to offer this service closer to the people where they live or to pay off housing expenses for families who have to travel long distances to have children, people who live in the land must have constant access to health care and other services. I don't know which option is better or what is really possible than what is. A senator spoke of earlier will never find out about these solutions unless we start examining the system systemically, starting to shape our course, and taking steps toward it. I like to think about it this way: We're going where we want to go first, how we want to develop it, and then we can start wondering what solutions are best.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u94	V.E.G. President. That was interesting. Now the situation is that prospective mothers pay for a stay at a hospital hotel here in the city, 1,500 bars, but at the same time, prospective fathers have to pay 6,000 dollars. to the same situation, which is a great deal of discrimination and really unpleasant. I thought it was interesting to hear it. The senator opened up an examination of the possibilities, whether it is possible to allow for a further stay than, for example. as we have now, a hospital hotel. You wonder, " Is it practical for the State because future mothers and future fathers are not patients? ' Why do we have these people at the hospital hotel? Because there is nothing else. You wonder, " Is it possible for the State to build low - cost apartments for prospective parents in places where birth service is available, where parents could stay without cost, parents in a position where they cannot have children at home? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u95	Mr. President. Yes, these are all very important thoughts and thoughts. One of the reasons why I was happy to end up on a welfare committee is because one of the things I think best of this job is to get the opportunity to take in important information so that I can develop opinions more deeply about how to have it, to find this cooperation, to put our ideas together, and to get to a good result. I look forward to a better look at this subject and related to it because it is natural that it is extremely important. It's been discussed here that not enough babies are born here. We need to increase the number of births, and we need to make better for future mothers and family heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for representing this fine case, a bill to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorof. Probably a third time. It is from the past that children in Iceland were born around the country in hospitals then known as hospitals. Now these places have become fewer, and it is probably only two places, of course, of course, and of the Akureyri Hospital, who have defined roles, which can receive children and welcome mothers who have children. In addition, Aranesp is the only place that has full equipment to make fast emperors so far. However, the number of births where there is such a safe fix can be clearly and secretly reduced, as much as possible. There is some opinion about how many places these places are supposed to be, but the pull is primarily about Land Hospitals. Why does this happen? There are, of course, reasons. People are limited in size, and financial contributions are cut down. Then, of course, all of us want our children to be born in the safest circumstances and to be careful about the risks. Of course, in the vast majority of cases, Iceland and I have been very successful in this field and in the best of worldly success. The proposal, the change, makes me feel moderate, and it contains a witness of equality to those living in the country. It is an enormous amount of noise and inconvenience for people to take up, perhaps with long notice from more children or the whole family, and to move long distances. It is under the heel whether any foster institutions remaining, the Landspians, and the Hospital in Akureyri, can pay the streets of parents by providing them with accommodations during the time of the stay. Not always. I know that at Aranesp it is assumed that prospective mothers can stay in the Agency's housing before birth. It has been found that there is an absolutely necessary part of the work just because of those who come further. I hope that this suggestion will go well with a committee and that it will be a little easier for parents who need to take on this inconvenience. Sadly, the birth of children all around the country will not be that way. That's possible, but it takes a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u97	A respectable president. I recommend here for reimbursement of a judicial hearing in high school. This is an urgent matter that has been very much discussed in the community recently and that always surfaces, showing that this is a matter of concern to the person involved. This resolution proposal was previously submitted to Council 145, but it was not granted, and it is now removed unchanged. The first official at that time was Sigríður Ingadóttir, Congressman of the United States. The movers now are members of the United States Parliament, plus my own Logi Einarsson and Oddný Guðbjörg Harðardóttir. This is in the opinion of the Conspiracy an important case proposed at the beginning of the council in the fall, but the proposal itself reads: The General concluded to hide the minister of Education and Culture in order to make sure that from the year 2017/2018, all students in the higher schools will have access to the community's psychological services within the school's walls without cost. Ministers have consulted Iceland's Teacher Association and Iceland's Psychological Association on the form of the ministry, including for treatment given, number of students per psychologist, etc. An essay with the proposal says that the article that, in the so - called White Books of Education and Culture Ministers for Education, it is estimated that only 44% of Icelandic high school graduates have completed their education at their scheduled time. Young people who are away from study and the long - term effects of it will be taking care of in many parts of the community, and they will already be seen. This may be partly due to poor mental health in this country, but suicide is the main cause of death among young men in Iceland, a shocking and inhuman reality that will be dealt with by all means. Problems with these materials need and can be met, e.g. with increased bioavailability to mental health care. The school and study years are always an important part of young people's lives. In the field of school, the work and activities are varied, social development and emotional development at assemblies and conventions, and not everyone may be as well equipped to cope with life in an unwary way. Young people need guidance and answers to persistent questions during the period of conflict, assistance, and support. At times, this is a universal factor, but often with a young person's problem, which requires a special approach. A lot of harassment occurs, both external and internal. A respectable president. Because of lack of mental - health resources, pressures on teachers, schoolteachers, and guidance counselors have increased, which do not really have an education or basis for coping with the problem. Therefore, it is important to respond to the call and increase access to mental - health services within the school walls. Young people call for action from governments. Less than two years ago, the Internet revolution was a call for a change in society's attitude toward spiritual illness and to highlight the tremendous cost of seeking mental - health care. Then, at the end of 2015, the Union of Icelandic high school students decided on the matter. It is called for an increased bioavailability of psychology services within the high school country. We know of effective school - service experiences that have been experienced by this type of service. In 2012, 2012,2013, the Academy of Education in Akureyri, as an example of a psychologist, hired a 50% profession. A report written during the test program shows that more than 10% of students at VMA took advantage of the ministry. More than the year, the psychologist, on average, interviewed 2.5 interviews a day, as well as had a group - treatment session in mind of behavior during a spring cycle. According to the report, 137 students used psychology services during the course of 20123/42013 and the year after 179 students, an increase of less than 31%. The course of service was very effective for the students she was using, and after the course of 2014-2015, the school psychologist, on average, interviewed 4.45 people a day. The report shows that high attendance by students in the Psychological Service and the number of interviews given shows that there is a need for such provisions. Then prejudice and shame will be negligible with the increased psychiatric demonstration within the school walls. An application in the ministry is now more equal in personal study courses than when it was first offered, indicating a link between performance and availability and the use of the ministry. Governments have many responsibilities for students in high school. According to point two. Law of High School, No. 92/2008, the role of high school is to promote the mature development of all students and their active involvement in a democratic society by offering each student a proper study. By 33rd. The same law applies to all high school students as well as to training in an encouraging, study environment. will take into account their needs and general well-being. When I'm on my way 1.mg. Thirty-three. b, every member of the school community to contribute to the support and maintenance of a good worker and a positive schoolmate. It's 4 mg. Thirty-four. The same law should move high school to provide special support to students with special learning problems or illnesses. All the above factors involve their spiritual well - being and are designed to contribute to their spiritual well - being. In that way, a student's good spiritual well - being is important for his study results. Team B.2 for the proposal of a health minister for a resolution of mental health and mental health policy and procedures until four years of age suggests that a minister will be assigned to appoint a group of workers who suggest the introduction of psychopoiesis in play, core and higher schools and that they are subject to the end of 2017. There is nothing to suggest, however, that students in high school are guaranteed access to psychological services without cost. However, this statement, in a paper with the aforementioned synonym, can be taken into account that the school is the preferred site for reaching as many children with mental and mental protection. Must be considered that it also applies to high school. A respectable president. The aim of this proposal is that at the beginning of the school year 2017●2018, students in all high schools will have access to psychological services without any cost to cope with the indiscriminate state of professional mental - health care. In this suggestion, a minister is assigned to expand the ministry in a more precise way than to indicate that one full - time psychologist can care for some 700 students. In this proportion, the service need for smaller and larger schools should be aimed. In view of this, the organization of the U.S. school psychologists assumes that the number of students never exceeds 1,000 will be considered for each psychologist. Is the role of the psychologist more than merely caring for diagnosis and counselling, e.g. as well as treating appropriately without referring students to psychologist activity outside the school, we need to refer to each psychologist for 500 to700 students. Keeping in mind, too, that waiting for this type of service can be bad for students, and it may be important for students who need the ministry to arrive as soon as possible. Finally, a respectable president. It would be highly fitting to conclude this matter in good terms so that such preparations can begin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u98	A respectable president. Thank you for the Prime Minister for the speech and the case. This is a case that I think that we in the left of the green can always write down and probably have more groups. In the fall of this year, no one was concealed from the campaign that the youth's mental - health services burn very heavily on young people. We've all found that this was one of the hotst cases in high school, since it's a big deal. That's what it's all about. To prevent a drop from high school, where psychosocial situations are a major factor in getting people out of school. It is not easy for you to feel a bit reluctant that this matter has to be done in 2017 when the left government was in the starting room to promote this very close - up service, both health care and high school, with a number of cross-cutting jobs that have failed to accomplish sufficiently in the years since then. In addition, over the past few years, the schools have been forced into three years of study to increase the pressure of students who come back to their senses and increase the risk that psychological problems will trigger the root. Though this may have been accomplished much earlier, hopefully all of us will rejoice as one because this matter has come true and hope that it will be accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who created the S. son of Brjánsson for this talk and for putting forth this important matter, which I believe. Residents have a wholehearted support. These are very good goals set out in this suggestion. It shows that this service is clearly needed, as it is here referred to a 2012/2013 experiment project in the Academy of Education in Akureyri. Between years of age, if I read correctly, there is an increase of less than 31% in the attendance of psychologists between the years. The report also says that it is talking about - isn't it? - that every 700 students will have one psychologist. Hv. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong. But has there been an analysis of how many psychologists would need to enter the high school? Has there been an analysis of psychologists in the country? As we know, in many professions there has been a lack of professional people. Is there enough evidence of psychologists? We have seen that rural society has repeatedly had to advertise psychologists? Or maybe it's one of the things that will go into trouble. A welfare committee, I suppose, and a review? I wanted to know a little bit about this very good, if these two factors had been investigated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for her answer. Analysis, based on my knowledge, has not been performed. This standardization is expected, 500 to700 students per psychologist's standard. I guess high school is on either side of 30 in Iceland, all of it. Of course, some of them are large, others are smaller and smaller. It may become part-time, at least The first episode, and the cooperation of some high school. Because this has been tried, especially if we look to the experience of the Academy of Education in Akureyri, the experience has been very positive. It was stepping in. At first, there may have been some inconveniences among students, but as soon as this was used and applied to this ministry, it became much easier, and the psychologist became a member of the school work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Son of S. Brjánsson for a good answer. I don't think it's a big deal, even though the analysis hasn't taken place, it was just questions that woke up when we spoke at times. A senator and reading the report. But this, too, is something of a natural nature. The members of a welfare committee, if the case goes to the welfare committee, may look up and call for the work of the Committee. It's very important to increase access to psychologists, whether they're in high school or high school. We have access to a nurse whom young and young people have come to in most school institutions, or many of them. As the report shows, attendance between the years in which this project has been run has been a significant step. It is very important, and a responsibility for us today, to consider how we can help students in high school to maintain our spiritual well - being and thus to prevent the evaporation that comes from high school. As the report shows, suicide is the leading cause of death among young men, and we must do everything within our power to increase access to more people's spiritual well - being. I look forward to working on this good subject and calling out guests to expand my perspective. I hope this good proposal has a course here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u102	V.E.G. President. I like to like others who have discussed the proposed Senate resolution of psychology services in high school, celebrating the proposal and commending the candidate's proposal. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón who's got an Brjánsson Brunsson for her. It's very important. I'll support it and try to get everyone else to support it. Bad mental health undermines society. She's losing the job. Hv. Senators have discussed school dropouts. This article will show that a student's well - being is important for the results of his studies. It tells itself something, but it's worth mentioning, too. Bad mental health also reduces happiness. This factor should not be underestimated. It affects so many people when one person is sick, whether physically or spiritually, such an illness affects so many, and it reduces the amount of energy that many are exposed to. If people are not helped, bad health will bring high health costs to the health system, to the social security system, to law enforcement, and will bring in a lot of very expensive things. By improving their mental well - being even if it takes some money, they are so quick to return. So I would say that a project to provide high school students with their mental - health services as a means of free, high - school psychological service. If we can say so, it is a very social work that is practical. That's very good. I'd like to follow this also to grab a little bit off here on the report, with the permission of a president. It says: It is estimated that only 44% of Icelandic high school students complete their education at the specified time. - That rate is totally unacceptable. - ▪ Young people disappear from study and will be long lasting in many areas of society, and they are already being seen. This is partly due to poor mental health in this country, but suicide is the main cause of death among young men in Iceland. This problem needs to be addressed, e.g. with increased bioavailability to mental health care; In addition to this, I again mention a special discussion of the health care that I think was on the day before, as a boy. S. The Brjánsson Brünsson was an early - language minister. It says that mental - health services are to be used everywhere and that they become part of the health care program at health care stations all over the country. This is a very important and big task, for suicide is a major cause of death for young men. I hope I'm right, but I remember that there were 50 Icelanders falling at their own hands every year. That's a huge number. If we put it in the context of traffic accidents and sea accidents, we know that we have achieved tremendous success in reducing road accidents, increasing the use of cars, and increasing the use of many kinds of educations and fishing accidents. There has been tremendous efforts to reduce their efforts. We have achieved wonderful results. It's time for mental health, and though it had been before. It's a bad situation. By immediately starting the colleges and making psychological services visible, as well. paritaprevir and the transferer of S. Brjánsson came in earlier, so that it is recognized, and that there is nothing wrong with caring for mental health, just as we feel that there is nothing wrong with going to physical exercise and caring for physical health and walking - as soon as the media discussion is on the same page, the demonstration is in place, and there is a recognition that people are using services for e.g. Well, psychologist, we're on the right track. Although this change, i.e. To ensure access to high school students to their psychological services without cost, at the cost of a few cents, and will no doubt be seen in the work of the Committee when the committee starts to get the reviews and other items, we will gain so much more value instead if we can build our young people up and restore them whole and healthy into life. We've also talked a lot about the structure of the education system. We need to fix it and do much work there. That's right. But if those in the educational system don't feel well enough, then we're forgetting the main thing, i.e. The people. The system is only a setting whether people are two, three, four or five years of high school, but if people have a lack of results, they can be calculated all the way back and forth, i.e. If we don't get out of the study, feel bad, we can still change that, and that doesn't involve much in ourselves. Surely, then, we are to do so. I hope this case has a quick and good look at the welfare board and we here at the Council can accept it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u103	Mr. President. I want to give a brief speech, just to emphasize the importance of this matter. Now it is not that young people in Iceland are suddenly in great need for mental - health care and mental - health services, since this has certainly been known for many years. In the two high schools I was in, last 12 years ago, so that was a long time ago, efforts were made to help the young to get to a psychologist if something went wrong, but it was often difficult to find ways to do so. The financial situation of the school did not allow much service or for many to receive it. At times, there was some cooperation with the Red Cross, sometimes with psychology services in town, etc., but it all depends on the financial situation of the school. Of course, it was completely unacceptable. That's why this case was brought here a year ago, while the 1st transporter was Sigríður Ingadóttir, who was a member of the then administrative position. The case didn't get a walk then, but hopefully it'll work now. Now, the position of the state funds is far better than it was already, in the last term, trying to find ways to expand this service, so this must be an easy matter. It is spoken of in the government's policy declaration, so I hope this case flows rapidly through the council and that all members of Congress are prepared to make it happen fast and well and that funding will come into the budget that will be introduced on April 1. I challenge the members of this case to let it flow through quickly so that we can get it started as soon as possible. During high school years, there are so many things to do and often there are high standards for young people that they find difficult to live up to, self - image is strong, etc. This service is certainly needed in high school and has been in the past. It is important that every school can render this service and that all students wherever they are in the country stand open and not have to pick up their wallet. That, of course, is vital. The same can be said of nurses'services. It's just the same thing that's happened over the years. Schools have been in cooperation with local health care. There have been interviews once a week, on the other hand, as diverse as high school is. But there was always a debate about who should pay. Was the medical service to pay for this? Should the Health Organization Cost the Service? Or was it high school? So, when we were in so much pressure, this service lay ahead in many high school schools that are very unhappy. Also need to be considered for health care and access to a nurse in high school. I hope that goes on. Today, the number of youths diagnosed with sexually transmitted diseases is increasing. It is very important that education, prevention, and access make it easier for a high school nurse to do so. Mr. President. It's just that the thing is growing, everyone agrees, and we can afford it. We're going to go through this and make sure that the budget that will be published on April 1 will be set up for free psychology services in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u104	President. From the fall of 1998 until the fall of 2016, I had lived a lifetime of teaching in Icelandic high school when I sat at the General Assembly. At that time, I had the privilege of teaching from 4,000 to 5,000 students in three high schools. I felt that I had the best job in the world. It was varied, employed in crusts that were convenient for me, and it involved a great deal of communication with people. Of course, it was not always taken out because my students were as different as they were many. Some excelled in some ways, some in all respects. Some had little learning ability. Some were very kind. Some were bad. Some felt comfortable, and some felt unwell. Perhaps some were unhappy because they felt bad. Perhaps it was those who acted badly. I didn't always see how my students felt. Some uttered their grief silently. Some dislocated, landed in the so - called castaway group. The failures of students from high school have been carefully investigated and reported in the learned articles and reports of the recent years. I'm not going to be long - suffering about the various causes of disfellowshipping. We know, though, that many students are suffering emotional distress. They are among those who want to escape from studies. In my old job, I sometimes found that I had a reduced number of names in my room. Sometimes I knew why, sometimes not. Sometimes there were simple technical reasons for this. At times, I watched students succumb to spiritual difficulties. And then the names disappeared from the ledger. As far as I know, it's been said. paritaprevir In 2012, Gulán's Brjánsson, when a half - job psychologist was hired to attend the school, the School of Educator School in Akureyri was in charge. It was a research project that enjoyed special financial resources. It is hardly surprising to say that many students took advantage of that service, and I allow myself to claim that many have been helped to cope with feelings of sadness and anxiety. Since the fall of the year, school has not been strengthened for continued psychology services. This school year is under that service. It doesn't have to be overwhelmed as to how pathetic it is. I welcome this proposal of the council members and will have all the strength to support them. It will if it succeeds in helping to ward off darkness in the lives of young people, the people who will inherit land. I want to point 'em. Those who travel this suggestion of the need for schools to be permanently provided for this work. The schools that now offer psychological services and that are some have, if I have understood that correctly, all of them have been given a special temporary scholarship to do so, and they have no resources to finance such service by means of other means. After all, a multiplicity model of high school never assumes the work of psychologists in high school. Finally, I would like to point out that we must not forget those young men who choose not to go to school after high school. We must reach them too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Godss of Brjánsson and others of the Group of the United States are eager to contribute this good and urgent matter. I would even be so bold as to claim that this is one of the more important things we face, that mental - health services and, in particular, the spiritual health of young people are something of the most urgent matters that we as a community are facing. This is a very important step in meeting that challenge. It is our policy that psychological services become a general part of health insurance so that anyone can go to psychological services like going to a family doctor and to the clinic. It is likely to occur in steps such as many other systems involved in funding and reorganization. This is one very important step in that direction. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjólfsson is important that young people who have slipped out of high school or who choose not to go to high school also receive a comparable service. It is important that people in general have the opportunity for a psychological service. I understand that we Icelanders have a world record of antipsychotic drugs. Antipsychotic drugs can be very beneficial and necessary, but they may need to be remembered if, as a community, we had more emphasis on ensuring adequate psychological services from an early age. Although I was luckier than many, I personally associate with such cases. I have an obsessive disorder, which most people know as OCD, and maybe relate to feeling uncomfortable with a crooked frame. However, this is a natural anxiety disorder that has a major impact on daily life and is causing much anxiety, concern over details, fear of death, and the like, which can be very frustrating, especially for young people. I went to a few psychology classes in my day, spent a lot of time, and got out of it. I'm on antipsychotic medication today, which helps me very much. I might not need them if I had received a psych service in high school. My mother is a psychologist who works at the BUGL, the Children's Children's Hospital. I have grown up to understand the urgency of psychological services for young people and how difficult the situation of professionals is to provide the needed services and how many turn out badly from that system. I sit at a council as an assistant to a man who has actually been a victim of this system, has had mental illness from an early age, and has not had enough of their solution. Since then, you have heard countless experiences of young people who find it difficult to find help. As mentioned, the Government Treaty puts special emphasis on mental health. I trust there would be a wide agreement at a council to agree to this bill, to ensure adequate financial support and to go further, because we have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u106	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senators for a great discussion, especially I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson for insight into his personal experience, and thank you very much for his personal experience. Students who are school students know what life is like in the privacy of the school. It's a rather peculiar experience for us in the vast community that we are dealing with such problems. Or perhaps it has nothing to do with the abundance of society. At any rate, we do not succeed, as older ones, at the bottom of the young people in their lives in order to be more effective in various situations that face. We know that from morning to night, young people are being harassed, not just from within the environment, but from all over the world. Our biggest task is to deal with the problems we are already dealing with. But we should keep in mind what we can do to improve our general well - being and prevent such situations from developing, if possible, and that there is so much need for mental - health care within the school wall. Of course, psychologists in the room of high school work with students. They are very stimulating and encouraging in the school ministry with teachers, and they are teachers in that way too. I think that getting them to join the school is really needed. It emphasizes that these are school employees rather than outsiders, perhaps working elsewhere. Nurses and health care in high school have also been mentioned. Hv. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir noted that the sexually transmitted disease among high school students has again become a problem or a growing problem. That's a worry. Education in this field of health care has become urgent. These are all the subjects we will face. Likely, we will not succeed in implementing this except by step. But I agree that this need to be a permanent, not temporary, but that it is taken only in some way, but that the directors of these highly responsible schools can count on us to sail in certain directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-09-28.u107	A respectable president. I recommend here for two primes to legalize, one on the other hand, the Change in Pension Insurance and Pension Insurance, No. 129/1997, on the other hand, a bill to correct social change, No. 2/1995. Both of these primary indicators predict the information of accountants. First, I'd like to make a brief explanation for the bill on the debt of pension rights and pension funds. It suggests the addition of 42rd par. The word of the law is as follows: ▪ The accountant of a pension fund is obliged to respond to a business agency's inquiry at a annual meeting for anything that may be involved in the budget's accounts and financial issues when this can be done without damage to funds and funds. The bill submitted in agreement was set before 145; a legislature was not completed. However, since pension rights are very often a large part of the individual's financial resources, it is reasonable that financial associates can observe their property and rights. A cashier can never be properly supervised, but by an accountant who is a trustee, it seems reasonable that he or she can ask questions about how a pension fund works. The bill suggests that the elected accountants of pension funds will be obliged to respond to funds at annual meetings on income and financial matters of funds. The bill here for the change in social law is in a physical harmony. It suggests that 91st will be added. partner law No. 2/1995, as follows: ▪ The accountant of a social network is obliged to reply to the shareholder's inquiry at a meeting of anything that may have to do with the accounts of the Society and its financial issues in accordance with Article 1. 1 mg When referred to the 91st par. The law. It is assumed that this law will be established when approved at the General Assembly. A report by changing the social law said that this bill was submitted to the 145th legislature, but it was not completed. One of the most important monitoring roles in society is in the hands of the elected accountants of the stocks. Accounters are elected to shareholders' meetings by shareholders. It is highly unnatural for shareholders to have no access to accountants after selecting unless through a government, who have accountants. monitoring of partner management and management. The bill suggests that the elected accountants of a partner will be obliged to respond to shareholder's inquiries at partners' accounts and their financial issues. This change is not expected to follow the cost of partnerships where accountants are meeting for shareholders. The purpose of adding this provision to the social law is to increase the protection of the less shareholders in partnerships. A similar law is found in Swedish social law. A respectable president. Today, the word revision occurs in a form that rarely occurs 42 times in a partner law. Objectholders choose an accountant but then never have access to him without direction. It's, in the highest order, unnatural. It is therefore suggested that this monitoring role will be directly accessed to accountants at stockholder meetings, which may be shareholders' conferences at least every year, at the main meetings of partners. Other than that, these provisions explain themselves. I suggest that both of these primary sites be referred to a financial and business committee for material treatment and expected that it would be. The Economic and Business Committee and then members of Parliament agree well with this because I believe this is a future hope. A respectable president. I'll finish my case.
