ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-12.u1	On August 31st, no. received such a written message: Iceland's number tells: I have decreed, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, September 12, 2017. As soon as I published this, all those in the General Assembly will be invited to come to Reykjavík for a day and then the General Assembly will be appointed after the service of God's people in the cathedral. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, 31st August 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Bjarni Benediktsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to assemble on Tuesday, September 12, 2017 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. Goodly, I stand here among you, the reputed representative of the Allied Council of Iceland. The Parliament is the center of our administration. Here, ministers and the government are seeking their commission. People are looking at their country's laws when they want to be revised. Therefore, it is so important that the Council is respected among men, that the common world is secure. Fine generals. The views have long been heard in the community and in this hall that the Constitution and the responsibility of the President of Iceland need to be better defined. This is not to be a subject of talk now because this aspect is more urgent than others when it comes to the change of our basic covenant, but it is directed to his attention because of the recent opinions of the President's administrative position. Earlier in the summer, a number of people resented the rise of sexual offenders after the execution of judgment. There was no difference in law and a rich tradition of construction. This did not matter because the principle seems out - of - date and misleading. Long time it's time we didn't have it. True, those who have taken judgment are to go on walking in life, despite the suffering they caused others, beyond their own reach. During that journey, sincere repentance and penance would no doubt benefit, and even if people could receive civil rights again after reform and punishment, such a operation has nothing to do. Then it is reasonable to have the general opinion that the restoration of various rights can be conditioned and restricted to law in the light of the wrongdoing. We must learn from bitter experience and improve. The determination of the Generals and the government to change the law of honesty gives me hope that this will happen. The credit will then be to those who were offended and who refused to keep their grief silent. People in a free democratic community are to be heard when they are offended, not by a voice alone, but by reason in the power of a rich sense of justice and with the conviction that although rulers are not to be fooled by the wind, they listen, when needed, and when necessary. responsibilities are crucial to our society and to our administration. The Constitution contains the regulations that the president is irresponsible in the act of government. He causes ministers to exercise their authority, and he is responsible for the administration of all. But there is always another responsibility; responsibility to the people of the country who choose to be president, responsibility to their own conscience, and especially the responsibility and duty to bring matters to a better degree when possible. That is the case today. Under the same conditions, there will be no pleasure. After a simple process, there is no work to be done. It's a great Senate home. The government that took over earlier this year intends to review Iceland's Constitutions on the basis of the extensive work that has taken place in the past few years, especially in the field of administrative and Constitutional committees. When the Constitution of the United States of Iceland was revised in 1944, it was determined to change the only thing that would have to be changed because of the need for that section. At first convenientity, the Constitution would be considered for a counter-impliatory review. Thus, Sveinn Björnsson, the first president of the Republic, compared it to a fine - qualityd garment that was originally tailored for another country, with another view, for a whole century ◯. True, Iceland's constitution has often been changed from the establishment of a republic, the garment has been established, but society continues to grow and evolve. There is rich support within the council as well as in the Constitution that there should be a provision for environmental protection, national property of resources and national regulations, for example. In addition, political leaders, political leaders, and other so many times have recognized, especially in this century, that in our constitution a clearer picture of the ruling government, ministers have to have the highest authority, each in its own realm, and mention plainly what governmental authority the president actually has. These include: Consider that by means of the political films, assemblies, and orders of various offices. Finally, there is much to do with power and responsibility. The Constitutional irresponsibility of the president, which still includes formal confirmation of other people's decisions, does not harmonize with the right sense of people and does not belong in the community administration of the day. Hv. Senators. Some in this room want a completely new constitution, others little and no change, just as public opinion is divided. In 1918 Iceland became a free and sovereign kingdom. Two years later, in 1874, we were given a new constitution, rather than that given by the king. It would be appropriate to remember this dramatic milestone of the next year, the anniversary of sovereignty, and the constitution, by working hard to change the nation's basic covenant, changes to the common vision of the environment and resources of most people, society and governance, responsibility and power. I wish you, senators, good fortune in difficult jobs. Let's work together for the sake of our country and our nation. I beg the generals to rise up from their seats, and to remember the country. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, Bejarni the son of Benedict, and said, 'The whole son of our president and our land.' Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-12.u2	Honorable generals. I welcome all members, members of the council, and guests at the council ceremony. I expect to cooperate well with the general members of the new legislature. I have good expectations for this assembly myself, and I have full faith that our cooperation will continue with the fine hooks that characterized the last winter when everyone worked hard to cooperate in behalf of the country and the nation. The Council's Presidency Committee arranged the Council's Work Programme for a 147th legislation in mid - August. having agreed with the government and with the heads of Congress. The work programme is the same as in recent conventions. I reiterate my position that it is important that the work plan be a significant work plan for the Generals. It is important that each member of the general body be able to organize his work carefully on the basis of it and on the weekly schedule. The programme takes into account that rural elections are near the end of May. It is customary for the General to allow room for groups and partners to vote for the government. The Parliament's work will be interrupted for two weeks and up the middle of May, and the council will meet again after the election day in order to complete the proceedings. Next year, we Icelanders will rejoice that it has been 100 years since Iceland became a free and sovereign state. In the winter, it will be one of the projects of the Council to prepare a meeting in the Þingles. The festival meeting is planned for July 18th, but that day prior to a century ago, the government contract for Iceland was concluded and signed here in this house. The conference is thought of as the second anniversary of the birthday, but according to Generalis's conclusion, the government will celebrate the celebration of December 1, 2018, when the law of the Union came into effect. The preparation of that event is in the hands of the government. In addition to the two major events of the anniversary of the year, one by the Generals and the other by the government, the committee chosen by the General and its manager has worked on other events and projects that are distributed over the anniversary of the year and aims for the extent to which the participation of the people of the land will be shared in these celebrations, which are truly significant and important. I challenge the U.S. Senate to work hard to achieve a solid solidarity in matters that unite us as a nation when it comes to deciding what will be done at the meeting. It will be assumed that the Council will gather in Reykjavík the day before the Þingalval Summit and conclude the first discussion on the matter of Congress and settle various formalities. I'd like to report that when the Presidency Committee took over in January. The annual project program for the global work of the Generals 2017 was given special emphasis on the fact that two issues would become more important in its worldwide work. It's Arctic and equal. In both of these categories, we Icelanders have a strong place, and we can contribute a great deal internationally. The first steps in these matters were taken by supporting the increased involvement of the Western Council in the Arctic work and by strengthening the political conference of leaders held in Reykjavík 283/430. November. Now that a new legislature is about to begin, we need to review what kind of agency the World Council is. A special institution is that no one should be deluded as to what the General is. I believe, however, that because of the fact that the Council has no match to any other institution in Icelandic society, it is far more important that we consider its role and projects to us occasionally at such times. To me, there are four things that matter here. The first is that the Council is a representative party, above all, where representatives of different attitudes and interests of society are authorized to make decisions on behalf of the people of this country. Thus, the General is a political institution designed to evaluate things politically. The General Assembly is not a medical institution. Rather, it is a agency that all are to take place, regardless of gender, education, age, residence, and religion. As representatives of the public, members of the General Assembly are thus equipped to discuss and make decisions on any subject regardless of their involvement in interests. Senators are not bound by proper principles to those of the administrations or judges of their professions and can participate in the handling and payment of all cases at the General Assembly, except that they cannot vote for themselves. Another point is our legislature at the General Assembly. As representatives of the country, we are expected to make decisions about the common rules that should apply in our community. Our role, then, is to have the last record of which law should be applied in this country. However, since we are not elected as experts for these actions, it is reasonable to conclude that the agreement by law-employers is in the hands of experts who perform such works under political guidance. Thus, in all other democracies, it is the European Commission that has the priority for the special work done in the preparation of a law source. In this, the General is nothing different from any other council. Like other members of Congress, the Senate's task is to review and, as necessary, the work being done in the field of the European Commission. Generalis's attitude toward this project has improved greatly over the last two to three decades, and we need to take pride in doing this work well, and we should strive to further strengthen the General Assembly in this regard. But in spite of the fact that our legislation is much like that of other councils, the World Congress stands out in one way; here, it is more of a matter of Congress than in other members of Congress. The third thing I'd like to take into account is that the Allied Council is the most important political platform in the country, since this is where most of its citizens'views are represented. These differing views are under way for discussions at the General Assembly. Hence, it is only natural for a discussion to have a big look at the work of the Generals. Although much of the discussion is about the laws that we place in our public languages, it is vital that the council respond promptly to the issues that are at the top of each session. In my opinion, such a national debate needs to be given more room for the Generals. The discussion is also an important tool for anti - government officials and the public's attention on what may be aggressor. However, we can rightly be criticized for a number of points in the conference hall, and much of that may be added. This is also my will, and I trust that there is a growing understanding of the need for such things to happen. I'd also like to mention that it is important for a conversation at the Assembly Hall to be conducted by order and, in this respect, I want to refer to the remarkable judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg last year on the freedom of expression by members of Congress who take into account the role of the Assembly as a representative meeting. Therefore, members of the Parliament must respect the right of other members of Congress in order to express themselves in extraordinary matters and to promote matters. The duty of the president of the Generals is to make sure that good order, freedom of expression, and the success of Congress are balanced. The last thing I'd like to take part in the role of the Generals is that it is based on the nature of the council that we are not in the daily enterprise. It's how we hide others; councilmen who direct the Commission to our authority. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility as the highest authority in society to ensure that this management is done in the right way. The management of the Generals with the government and the administration of it are therefore of enormous importance. The nature of the case is so in the United States that this surveillance is primarily involved in the opposition of the government at any given time, although the responsibilities of the Parliament are also high. We have two agencies to help us, Our State Reconnaissance and General Agent. With this in mind, there have been adjustments in various terms of engagement over the past few years in order to strengthen the surveillance role of the Generals, and especially to improve my situation at the World Council to do this work. What I have given you here underscores the importance and diversity of the activities of this nation's highest organisation. However, I believe that discussions about the roles and projects of the Generalis should not be conducted just at the time of a campaign. So I want to have a conversation with the people of the country about how they feel about the General, how they work, how they should work differently, etc. This institution and we sitting here have got to beat this nation. So in the months to come, I intend to have an open meeting with the people of the country on this subject. I think it is appropriate that the President of the Generals have such a conversation now that we are soon celebrating the 100th anniversary of free and sovereign Iceland. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members and guests to accept the occasion of the Lord's Evening Meal. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to walk out of the hall with me to toast. This meeting will now be postponed until the next hour. 16th
