ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u1	A respectable president. As noted, a report on the effects of sailors'strike is requested. Intensification of rural society is combined, transport is experiencing great challenges in its projects, less non-employed fish production is non-exploited. Fish cleaners are added to unemployment improvements due to raw nitrogen deficiency, and fresh fish exports are minimal. The longer-term agreements are partly at stake, but in the target system as installed today, there is really no incentive for the structure to negotiate despite all the above statements. It is possible for fishermen to assume that when a strike is completed, it is left in the morning. Actually, it's just about picking up more volumes of shorter times. SFS then breaks the media ban and, at the same time, Guðmundur in Brimi has the government to decide how to act quickly with his articles. So I have an idea that I'm projecting in the light of the situation. I suggest that boats under 12 meters and 15 tons will be released until the end of a strike. If the real concern of the government and the United States is smaller, it is a source of support and support to the issue, we can contribute this way, extending a little living to the country. At the same time, I believe the contract board will negotiate in record time, or as long as it takes to proclaim and set up a meeting. In this way, we do not step on the rights of the party of the dispute. That's where we have a solution to the knot that won't bring the builders to meet their demands on a silver garment. If fish produce raw materials, workers in the fish - processing stations are less likely to be used as weapons for combating sailors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u2	President. I have to say, I find it amazing that a service group has been appointed or is being appointed from the highest level. Secretary of finance on how to handle black jobs by banning cash. Is there really nothing better to do at the highest. Secretary of finance, but trying to find ways that severely impair personal freedom and privacy, and quite clear that they will not handle the issues involved? But, in reality, most of the money comes out of the country in society. There we are talking about a lot of money. Wouldn't be closer to the highest. A financial minister would focus on trying to get some of that money to the country? I would also like to mention one thing in view of the discussions that have taken place here recently, when asked the highest level of questions. Prime Minister, former secretary of finance, on the report on the tax industry, which was kept until the election was due. In view of the fact that I'd like to point out an article to members of the Parliament, if they haven't already read it, by former tax president, Indriði Þorláksson, about why tax prevention is available and how it is used. This article was published recently and is very useful for public reading, especially for those members of the council who really want to handle these matters and would be very helpful, such as. to discuss with your current prime minister. Because in all of it, his name was in the Panamas. Despite everything, it was the highest. the local minister of finance with an account on a tax bill whether he knew about it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u3	V.E.G. President. Like the cod, the cod always comes along with a lot of joy, excitement, while the inevitable timbers follow in some cases, the so - called alcohol bill flows from the independents in a regular manner. We still have. V.E.G. President. I was not going to feed this matter with great interest, but I cannot put my words into words. The official policy of the present government is to put health matters first. That's fine. However, the fact that this is a case that, as studies show, is going to damage our nation both physically and financially. When it comes to alcohol and its treatment, do we not have to pay attention to experts and scholars? Who's going to make it? To whom is it beneficial to have an increased access to alcohol? There will be few who will profit if they do. Warning bells ring. A surgeon warns that various studies support their case. But here people are just fine, and they feel like they're upcoming, for example. Suggested by the World Health Organization, which includes there is a prohibition on advertising and limited access to alcohol to avoid overindulge. We have fine arrangements that are exemplary in the conduct of other nations. I don't see a reason for developing changes in public health research that suggest, in addition, consumption in all groups of society and will have a damaging impact on the health of the nation. In view of the cost of this, and in view of the fact that councilmen have spoken for the good use of the State's funds, I do not understand this initiative that could increase the nation's cost of 35 billion, as reported in yesterday's news. V.E.G. President. I don't seem to be doing any of the work on our Health Program for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u4	Madam President. You can only toast to the Independence Party with such a bad suggestion. A recent report on energy security in the country prepared by foreign experts for Energy Institutes, Legislation and Landsnet gives rise to a number of interesting factors, both describing the current state of energy security and electrical transport. There are various ideologies that I don't like, but other things are noteworthy. It turns out that the distribution system is not good. It is known that there is a great cumulative need for renewal and efficiency of the electrical transport system and to increase its transport capacity in many parts of the world. The report reports that long-term policy measures regarding long-term electrical development have to be made in terms of growth in production and transport and sales. With increasing demand, electricity needs to be produced more. A reference is made to SMEs. It may be that today, with long-term contracts, more than 80% of the energy markets are being sold to major users. Energy production is mostly in the South, but only about 4% of it is new there. Reports show that there is no energy policy in the country and suggest that public policy is developed on whether to increase production and how energy management should be priority. I agree that it is important that the state's clear tenant policy on land activation is in place, how the energy benefits of the newer programme should be used, and that the access of public and SMEs on energy is ensured. To date, the industry has been given long - term agreements on the price of low prices at the expense of public and other buyers. In fact, according to reports published in Europe and the U.S.A., the state of state wants to determine the method of activation and offer, as is known in Europe and the United States, and the new marketing solutions. I think it's a very dangerous ide that we're supposed to go against permanently in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm here today to discuss a case involving the children in the country. In recent years and decades, the land's population has been severely reduced and can only be fed by children in a few institutions. These declines have not been followed in support of parents who have to go to birth service for a long time and may even have to keep two homes while waiting for birth, which may last a few days and up to several months. Hv. paritaprevir The seminar, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, has provided a bill that turns around to change the law so that the parents who live far away from birth have to wait for births to get an additional addition to maternity. This bill is an important part of improving this problem, but more factors need to be considered. The disorder of household life, the cost of maintaining two homes, child care, loss of employment - these are just a few things to consider. Today, there is no strength available to people in these circumstances unless the amount paid can be paid from home to maternity ward and back. The reason is that people choose to live in a place far from a maternity ward, so this is at their expense. In my opinion, there's no equal in that. One option in the situation would be to have a special price for the people in this position at the hospital, but today a father of a child needs to pay 6 points. K. Every day while the mother, the patient, pays less than 1,500 bucks. ritonavir. There is also an equality need to be considered. I'd like to propose to the council to keep these matters in mind and to put these matters to good use. Getting a new life in this world without financial worries and other aspects of life is under sufficient pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u6	Madam President. I'd like to make transportation a topic here, especially those who turn to air transport. It has been stated in the section of the Parliamentary Constitution, which focuses on the secretary of travel, industry, and innovation, on the provision of a bill on Air Development Fund designed to support regular international flights to Akureyri and Egressance. I like this bill. However, there is no mention in the Government Constitution, nor in the part of the Constitution that turns the Ministry of Transport to internal flights. In the news yesterday, so I return to the international flight, there was a report that the average flight price from Cheflavík is 41,230 k. When I return to the capital of the bright north, as Steindórsson of the Humungus called Akureyri in his work, it usually cost 45- ◯50 you. If my family lived in Stockholm, it would cost me 26 of you. K. To go there on weekends. It'd be pretty amazing if my family lived in Stockholm. Stockholm is a great city. I think it would be awesome if the secretary of transportation was going to think of how he could be able to strengthen domestic flights so that I and others don't have to pay double the Stockholm fare charge north to Akureyri. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u7	V.E.G. President. I'm here to have a conversation with you. paritaprevir Friðriksson Friduksson on a complex alcohol bill Since the end of the bill, it has been a factor. A surgeon stepped forward and said, with permission of the president: It is my opinion, and the view of office is totally contrary. We violate this suggestion, and it is in itself a tragedy that it has surfaced over and over again. He also said that those who work to improve the health of the people of the land would naturally oppose this bill. All available studies suggest an increased bioavailability of alcohol leading to increased consumption. He also explains that he is specifically referring to vulnerable groups, such as young people and those who are unable to tolerate alcohol and thus contribute to the health of people and the increase in the cost of society. Then, as we examine the reviews of previous terms, there are a number of health and social professionals with the agreed bill than those that recommend it to come from trade and services. A respectable president. Among other things, the Declaration of the Present Government states: A health policy that is compatible and trusted by health care, improved human health, and contributes to the health of the people of the country. It also says: ▪ Government policies and planning will make sure that people are affected by health and well - being. The future will be reduced from direct and indirect costs for the community all by promoting safety and public health activities. But now I ask, How can these different factors go together, i.e. to improve human health and at the same time increase access to alcohol? Because I know both me and him. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson is both interested in increasing human health and health in the country, I ask her: Is she going to agree to the bill, or is she in agreement with us who are opposed and listening to the medical and social professionals's words?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, a novice for the inquiry. I frankly admit that in these matters, I have two very strong views. The wise men might even say that I disagree with myself in these matters. I simply believe that the state is not to be a small business, and in general, I also feel that people are to be responsible for their own opinions, decisions, and actions. But when it comes to this particular matter, other very strong social views come into the picture, and this is the public health influence. I'm simply, like, a whisk. A senator mentioned, a great palace under those views. We're primarily in my opinion talking about access here, the access control, which is one of the three factors mentioned in the prevention of these issues. The rest are the taxes and then the education. It's in this particular bill, as I understand it, in no way been suggested any less unless it is less, i.e. it is suggested for further education. Even today, alcohol access is available, and this trend has recently been led by the government's current operator. Since the number of sales has increased, opening times, advertised, and in many places, the separation of alcohol and other products is simply not great. There's nothing to go outside of Reykjavík to experience it. Despite the limitations, the development in a liberal state is under way. To answer that question, I feel that the public health goals, with continued limitation of sales time and delinquency, could be met without the government's monopolies. Such a change would be something I could look at with a positive mind, not the bill as it seems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u9	Madam President. I'd like to remember that today Gíslason had lived. He was born on February 7, 1917, but he died on August 18, 2004, nearly 88 years old. Man is a social creature, and the awesome ability of working together across from generation to generation has created him with the position he is today. Most of us, however, do a little work, and then we head out and soon forget. Then there are others who rise from the sea of humanity and help society to make it more beautiful and brighter. One such man was a coward. Most of the things he discussed and all the people he met were deeply affected by Gylfi. He became an early fighter for equalizing social reforms and saying that the reason was that he had gone back to social injustice and the impossibles of people during the time of the crisis. However, Gylfi was also very aware that man does not live on bread alone, and we also need art and culture. He was also an excellent pianist and a composer. Gylfi was a highly respected academic, scholar, senator for 15 years and minister for 15 years, and as such he used himself for free trade, opener contact with the outside world, and later a battle for the invasion of Iceland in EFTA. In education, he then had a powerful influence on the advancement of all schools and applied to music schools. No doubt the Gylfi power and quality of modern musical life are attributed to many. On behalf of Iceland's Equatorial Party, the United States, I thank you for the presumption that Gylfi was given the amazing task of making life more beautiful, better, and more meaningful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u10	Madam President. I'm going to discuss a short, important matter that is related to fluid, in fact, not alcohol that turns out well. It's a big step in the energy business that I'm about to mention, the Icelandic Deep Throat project. This is the second or third hole that has been drilled, and it has succeeded and has reached a depth of nearly five miles [5 km], some 4,626 meters [4626 m]. And the temperature below is over 430 points, and the pressure over 200 airweights or bars, as we say. This is what we call an overcredulous situation. Now we're taking tests and tests for two to three years. There is good reason to be optimistic about the significant power issues in Iceland. What's down there? The liquid, or what to call it, is a type of gas. The water down there is at a depth of five miles [5 km] or so there's a kind of gas, and its energy content is much higher than we should get used to from what comes up out of the asphalt. Thus, between five and ten times more power can be obtained from each drill than the one we've been used to so far, which means that a power plant doesn't have 30 drills but five or ten. It also has a strong international appeal because there are other areas around the world, the high - temperature region. We are offering a considerable amount of global energy and climate as well. The impact on energy policy here in the country can be considerable if all of this is effective, affects the framework, disrupts the proportion of the hydroactives and the aquifers, and also has a major impact on energy efficiency itself. I'm going to encourage the Senate to keep an eye on this trend and, with these few words, allow me to import a possible energy revolution into the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u11	A respectable president. A few days ago, I received a desperate plea for help. By permission of the President, I'd like to share it with you: ▪ When your system fails completely and you are left helplessly, sometimes the only weapon is to tell about injustice. Somehow it also helps the soul. I'll pick up my daughter from school later. Finally! That I'm only allowed to meet my baby four days in the mother's ten days is so grossly unjust and ancient that it is heavier than tears. My daughter is 150 percent more with her mother than she is with me. That injustice was ruled three years ago and then again by one year. This shameful little association is not something that gets used to it, but it gets worse and worse with each passing week. All the children come to us every Monday, except one. And her absence becomes more tangible each week, month, and year. You see, time flies by while I miss most of her youth. The other day, she lost her first tooth here with us, on the short weekend stop of society, and I sensed how happy I was, probably abnormally, over having to share it with her. You see, there are so few such hooves that we get together. This defective system has to be changed. Why is it that children of divorce are not allowed to enjoy just two parents together? What can be done in the face of injustice? Are there any ideas of parental equal rights? So I want to pay particular attention to the government case log which is the answer to this plea and many others. It says by permission of the president: ▪ Kapkom becomes a full - time service to young people and their families to be the best members of the world and to have children in the United States. The community supports different family types and encourages parents who do not live together to bring up their children in peace. [[The president calls.]] The right of children is guaranteed to be registered in a divided home in two legal homes and in the presence of members of their parents and the legal home of their parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u12	Madam President. Yesterday, there was a special debate that was about a lot of good and that would actually have been much more attention to the media because there was a subject that really matters to everyone, i.e. State funds and how they are distributed. When I listened to the discussion and wondered how to deal with yesterday, the press, even if it had been for the sake of what was said on the part of the minister, would have noticed. I'm going to have a witness, by permission of the president, in the words of the Supreme Court. Minister who just closed the discussion, but they were like: ▪ I find it interesting who is interested in these discussions, that's why. paritaprevir Null Trausti Friðbertsson and the practical housewives who are in large numbers in this room. I wondered if it is in the name and spirit of governments that teach themselves to be equal, and even to appoint a minister of equality, who took the title especially because it was supposed to have such an important place. I think it is unnatural for the government to tolerate such use of words and speak to a group of conquistadors in this way. I'm asking you, dear senators, do you think this is all right? Of course, I expect you to discuss this among yourselves, or ask yourself: " Do you think this discussion would have taken place, and those words or similar if men had been here in the greater part of the discussion or listening? You think so? Not me. I don't think so. The use of words is important. The context and setting are also relevant. It can't be okay, and I don't think it's appropriate, to the Minister of the Government who teaches himself on equal speaking to women like that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u13	Madam President. I'm wondering about the media news ratings that often get a little lighted up in my mind. On Sunday's national television, the wine bill was covered for 17 minutes, while the seaman strike for two or three. That made me feel strange, given the importance of the subject, the work that covers more than 300 billion each year, and the country's environment. It was given three minutes to the booze. It says something about the food. I'm very worried about a sailor strike. I think it is very important that sailors, builders, and governments now put the cards on the table and end this dispute as soon as possible. She has already taken all too much toll, not only for the community in general, but also for the fishing workers, the services, and all the rest of the workers in the fishing industry and on the fishing grounds. Therefore, it is important that we in this room continue to place responsibility for those who are responsible for these contracts and to keep the matter at rest, but I have heard of a cover that Pirats opened in which there is much conflict. I think it's unnatural that we're in this situation. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I heard the radio this morning, too. þm. A Smári McCarthy who is a Western ears, such as I say, is the only way to establish a law on the issue is to take special note of the interests of another person. [[Up front.]] It is also very bad if we in this house send a message that we join in this dispute. I think it's most important for us that we are at peace and that the issue will be solved as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u14	A respectable president. Recently, reports have been received that up to 95% loans are being offered to buy property. I want to come here and express concern about the trend. It was found in the economics of ASI yesterday that in those loans there is a significant risk. It takes very little for the buyer to get in trouble. It has often been that way, and young people find it hard to buy housing. However, the figures show that today new buyers are 203/425%, about one quarter to one fifth, of the contracts being made. The problem we're dealing with isn't turning toward demand, it's enough, it's offering housing. Therefore, I would like to remind those who are planning to offer such loans on October 20 of that year. The General approved a new mortgage law. They are on April 1, 2017. It is, in fact, there. As to such loans, it is not only earmarking those who have a mortgage on property but also loans that are given in order to buy or maintain property. It has been suggested by the Department of Economic Affairs, which I really hope was given to the UN to set up a maximum - rate bets, which can be 60 to 101 percent, as well as limits to limits on the income of the consumer, the borrower, on the other hand, on the total budget and on the payment rate. This provision is something that the Navy had called on as part of the national economist that would be needed to secure economic stability here. A loan of kindness is not being borrowed, we have to keep it in mind, and it has certainly proved to be that loans are not that bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u15	President. In unsupervised inquiries yesterday, the prime minister was asked why he had not returned a report of debinos to the public before election. The answers were pretty weak. Prime Minister said the report was submitted to the Generals. The report finally came to the Generals, yes - finally. When is it finally too late, Mr. Honorable President? Isn't it too late when the election's over? Is it not too late for everyone to know that the report is ready yet, but has it not been published? I feel like I'm in an even part of it right away when I'm talking about it. Intolable. The report was ready for election launch, there's no debate. The report contained information for the topic of conversation, according to the comments of Prime Minister for an interview with VOLV. Information that the report contains on the terms of public interest and secretary should take the initiative - the publication of such data. The minister abused his authority and refused voters access to information to make an informed decision in the preparation of his vote in recent elections. The dressers were not allowed to take sides. Clients were deprived of their right to informed decision making. There's a basis for distrust. That is why it is so important for the minister to answer for his hide-and-seek. Could a minister honestly say that he would not demand exactly the same thing if he was in the position I am in right now? Would he not personally insist that people return the key? In order to strengthen confidence in the administration, the government has approved a minister's code of ethics. Is it enough to accept such moral standards and expect confidence to become like a wave? Trust will grow when people shoulder responsibility and mistakes have consequences. What happens next? Will there be no consequences? Will there never be any consequences of hiding public information? If there are no consequences now, why should there be consequences later? This is what the Parliament needs to consider, and each senator needs to ask himself: Will such conduct of a minister to the Council never have consequences? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u16	Madam President. Health care has been under way for all over the country over the past few years, this underestimated but the most important foundation of health care. The concept of health care does not include just general health care, nursing, health care, prevention, emergency and accident receptions, and other health care services provided by health care facilities, one of the most important tasks of health care care measures is integration, the giving complete and continuous service to individuals and families, working health care, all that is performed without hospitalisation in a medical facility. Thus, professional teamwork is widely a part of reform work under sign of human health, and although it is in the financial situation, this is a factor. We all know the discussion and the developments that have taken place, and the economic breakdown grew as a number of doctors went to work abroad. This, along with a small recruitment process in the age - old staff of family experts, has resulted in many health - care providers being treated for a damage model for long periods of time. It is true of the capital area as well as of the country. As reported by the health care of the capital area, the prospects for the restoration of health care have now far improved. At least two new health - care centers will soon begin working in Reykjavík, according to a new model, driven by private officials on the basis of an invitation. This should be the response to long-term human care and lack of interest for doctors in the public working environment and the efforts to attract powerful professionals. The main changes are in the changing budget for financing where effective and good services should be rewarded as assessed. The aim is to include professional and financial policies, which contribute to this support and more efficient management. In the near future, all clinics in the capital area are to work according to this same model, if the previous Minister's declarations are understood. The same criteria will be laid on the basis of independent business practices, allowing all to sit at the same table, whether the business is public or in the hands of a private person. There is reason to ask a minister how that work feels and when it will be realized. The idea will be that comparable funding systems will be implemented nationally in time. It will be exciting to see a secretary's export in this regard under rural conditions. Sadly, the situation on the land is serious. There the sun will not remain intact, and a special effort is needed to build up again. Medical problems persist, and around the country, the ministry is being saved more and less with short - term solutions. Where there was once a stable and healthy care, medical services are now provided by day - to - day contractors. The doctors are so far gone, they are not rooted in the communities, they are small, and the inhabitants are not well pleased. National health care is immensely important to the inhabitants, but it now has a similar look. Good health care is vital for many families, and it can help to determine the results of living conditions. However, the balance of health care in urban areas and rural areas is not limited to long - term rocks, considerable travel, and receptions of patients may not be as extensive as in urban areas, where the demand is rapid as it is in the short term. The Government Declaration states that effective health care is a priority. There's one line on the health care system in it. In view of my priority, I allow myself to ask the highest. Ministers, at the same time, as to what means he will resort to promoting health care in the country, a service that, unfortunately, is in many areas, financially hungry, and has not been adjusted in accordance with prices? Is it possible for the region to prepare for the same health - care environment? Will the service at Hólmavík be held, or will it be carried out safely? Top dog's record. Minister of this area wanting markets? Don't you think there's something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u17	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you very much for this special discussion about the important group of issues, the health care. Thank you. A senator for asking for the discussion and for a good talk. In this country, health care is the first stop when individuals approach health care. The Declaration of the New Government puts special emphasis on strengthening this role. This focus is a factor in ensuring access to safe and good health care, regardless of economic, estate, and social status. Good health care especially involves the availability of a variety of health care professionals. Apart from the services of doctors and nurses, there are psychologists, physical therapists, nutritionists, and pharmacists. By improving the multidisciplinary approach of health care, both the ministry can be improved and more efficient. It is a pleasure to see health - care centers focus more fully on teamwork, such as the whale. A senator mentioned, e.g. in the Health Care Center in the capital area. This is consistent with the development of health care in other countries that we choose to compare ourselves with. The benefits of a complete and cross-cutting approach include: more emphasis on prevention and preventive measures that improve the quality of life of the individual and are at the same time more effective for the health system. It belongs, for example. for musculoskeletal disorders and mental health care. It is being done to increase access to mental health care. Today, there is a special campaign to increase the mental - health status of psychologists, and this is in harmony with the government's emphasis, which is also considered to be more supportive to the children of parents with psychiatric problems. In this context, it is also a pleasure to see the possibility of distant health services in various areas, such as the rural population, but this trend has also been seen on urban health facilities, as some have been doing in other countries. During the past few years, the health status has been quite a factor, and it has been transversely agreed that it needs to be strengthened. Experienced by health care funding systems in the capital area suggests that the service is improving and more are enjoying the service of the stations during the day. It has been discussed with individuals and society the development of health care. In his talk, he wondered. A senator is only a means by which health care programs are established. For health care, there are two major challenges. First, it is the nature of the ministry and how it develops, e.g. ... witha teamwork. Secondly, there are organizational and financing changes, i.e. how we direct access to the ministry through the distribution of capitals and the service organization. Changes have been made in the workout model of health care in the capital area, which took effect on January 1 so that it will be reduced in a month's experience with this project. In addition, the organization of the ministry has changed to the rural area with the appearance of health centers throughout the country. There I think there is a great chance of strengthening the possibilities of health care. The changes in the capital area are centered on the changes in financing systems where the pay for the target is controlled by the number and composition of patients. The purpose of these changes is to increase quality and effectiveness in the services of the capital clinic, with the aim that basic health services are provided to a greater extent at clinics. The new model model and the description of the model applies to every local health center. The task is being done in close cooperation with the health care of the capital area, Iceland's Medical Insurance and the surgeon's office. A detailed press conference has been held for the presidents of individual clinics. Under the health of the capital area, 15 stations are reported. In addition to them, private teams in the Mudlu and Salaland will be part of the new financing system and then two new private drivers will stop at the beginning of April, one at the Cards, and the other at the cast. There is strong evidence that the clinics have been adapting to changing financiers in recent months. Records have increased, and so do the number of stations, to name something. The data on all aspects of daily health care centres have also increased, which is very important to improve quality and effectiveness in services even more in the long term. Bioavailability is increased and the patient selects where to register to the clinic. With a new system, important information about the ministry is more maintained and in the system is an built - in force for good and full - time service. There is no planned agreement with any other clinic at this time. In the long run, however, the plan is to use the new funding system for health - care centres even in the country where local standards are met. It is all about improving access to safe health care because, as most people know, it is unacceptable to a large part of the population that has not had enough access to health care services. It is important to strengthen the health of individuals and society at the moment of failure to deal with major health issues. The key is to ensure the quality of the service, equal access, and costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u18	Madam President. The use of health care as its first site in the medical system is certainly the most important task involved. While such a fundamental arrangement is agreed, we can ask ourselves, " How well it will take place at a table! ' Is this so, and has it been that humans in effect did what is needed to make health care possible to be the first stop? It's about money. It's about my design. It's about health care, family doctors, nurses, etc. It's about the fact that psychological services are actually offered at the clinic. It is about that health - care centers are the more integrated platform for the universal services they should be used. Everything has to be there; psychological services, baby - and mother control, education, prevention. The contribution of health care to community service has obvious benefits. Experience has shown that because there has been run by models, such as e.g. In Akureyri, where the community cares for the clinic operating on the basis of contracts and research projects, it has brought tremendous benefits. Clearly, it is best for the government, state, and rural society to work together on projects. How sad and foolish it is if all talk about health care points begins to revolve around opportunities for personalization or care because it is not the solution, but the rest of the health care providers, and to achieve this economy, the improved service, and the efficient implementation of health - care problems that can be achieved through it. I'm sorry, but such alibis and privatizations are still on the move and at the highest level. A former health minister has some inheritance in that regard, although he certainly did much well and excluded money from that source. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Healthcare Ministers are to proceed with health - care procedures and do all they can to make health care according to the laws: potent first clinic in the medical system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u19	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for an important discussion of this important subject and why. A senator for starting it. It is true that health care is one of the most important links in the chain when it comes to the health system. The more effective health care is, the better the whole health system is prepared to handle its role, and more economically, it has been shown. That is why it is very important that we have a serious discussion about what is most important in this regard. It must be the right of the patients or the health insurance and those in need of the service and how they experience it that they receive access to the ministry in the best and most practical way for themselves and for the state's funds. It's supposed to be the foundation, not some political premise. We see that the major changes that have been made recently to strengthen the health care system have already begun to function. It shows that it is not just the money that matters. It's not just how much money is put into this, which is certainly a major factor, but sometimes it's the system changes that matter. The pattern changes that have been occurring recently have led to the return of health care professionals and the number of people wanting to work on this, which is positive. That's one of the things to do. The number of registrations has increased, and the waiting for health care has decreased. I think we should take it with an open mind, try to get it over with us as soon as possible to get it out of the country. I'll call for that, for example. in South Australia, where there has been a long waiting period of time for health care. I think we should take this new model up, where all of us first to move out into the country, to strengthen our health care facilities, where it is equally important when other hospital services have gathered there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u20	President. It is also true in the capital area that very many do not have a family physician. I think it's very important that everyone living here has access to their family doctor, especially families with children and, especially, older citizens. Family history and the importance of having the same person at all times are very important to obtain the correct diagnosis as soon as possible. There's got to be a savings on the big ecel. At the rural areas where few live, I understand that there is not enough security for all to get the right service right now. In fact, there are offenders in hospital transport. I didn't hear words from the highest. I request a clear schedule from the highest level of action. A minister when he comes to the end of the discussion with his answers. I wanted to, because I was reading Bjart's Health Policy to challenge the highest. Ministers to enforce their own party policy to ensure that all citizens have access to information about available services, both health care and hospitals as well as other professionals. I think this is very important, and I want to encourage the highest. Minister to action there. Then I wanted to ask myself, " Is there a plan to expand it? And how does it work to protect my family from becoming a burden on welfare? ' Also, I would like to ask you how to promote individual independence, for we have heard too much stories about people who have faced very difficult situations because there are no resources available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u21	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. son of Brjánsson for requesting this discussion about the health care status of the country. It is obvious that there is a need for health care, but here I especially want to focus on the health care of the country and especially in the southern district. The situation is that there is not only a need for increased service to those living in the more scattered areas but also a tremendous increase in pressures due to the growing number of tourists traveling through the countryside. In this context, it can be noted that in my home unit, east of the Snow Valley, so many tourists brought us home in January 2017 and brought us home in June 2012. The darkest winter month of the year has become comparable to the winter months just a few years ago, and we felt that we had plenty to do. The senators can then try to imagine what this is like during the summer season. This situation has changed dramatically from that of the former. As the government, we need to take into account the importance of our priorities and employment. The treatment of health - care professionals in Southland has increased dramatically from that of the former. The existing health care providers not only serve the local people but also serve as tourists. These people are working hard. But governments need to be improved, and we need to get better with our health care providers. The government's top priority, so we should celebrate. For my part, I will follow through.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u22	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Thomson for starting this important discussion. I'd also like to call attention to our candidate priorities, but it's a health plan for Iceland. The point of the proposal is that the Council conclude to hide the highest order. Health Minister to start working with a health plan for Iceland. The healthcare programme will be implemented in collaboration with healthcare professionals in the medical profession. Your healthcare provider will include taking into account the geographic factors and transports, distances between habitats, urban development in health care centres, populations of age, clinics, hospital transportation sites, hospital access to hospital flights, number of tourist facilities, and summerhouse areas, as examples. At the same time, the strategy will consider whether there is an opportunity to promote health facilities in many parts of the country. A respectable president. It's full of health. The advanceers and I want to see a plan on promoting health care in the country and in the capital area, how we're going to use the land area's wealth of nursing, how we're going to blow up and decide which direction we're going to go. Besides, I'm going to discuss the reference system we're about to set up. I have to say, chief. Secretary of health, that I'm quite worried about the situation. In this discussion, it is basically a matter of strengthening health care in the capital area, whether the health care in the capital area is ready or not. During the discussion, I feel that there is too little room for health care in the country, so I ask the highest level. Whether or not he has checked the medical facilities there, whether to promote them and how, and how to put them in line with the health care of the capital area. It is important to answer these questions as soon as possible and inform them in any way, including the following questions. a means of financing, as the situation is serious in many places. We're driving on a job that's different ways of dealing with people. Our main focus on health matters has been on the Senate arrangement. [[The president calls.]] We'd also like to look at an inferno-based strategy to make better design for the system. I'm finally asking the highest. The health minister will consider this in consultation with the highest level of care. Minister of the community whether we can use proposed regional surgery to provide care for the health of the health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u23	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said that health issues should not be discussed here on political grounds. That's what I'm going to do now because I think it's very important. According to polls, 80% of the people believe that the health services should be in public hands, but today individual ministers can bend away from this, slowly and slowly, even without delay. That's what the ex-fiancée said. The Minister of Health for the Last Government of Congress May 10th, May, by permission of the President: For example, the number of health - care centers has been increased. The operating system is not a legal case, a health care system is not a legal policy, a declaration and a definition of the requirements of professional health care practices is not a legal policy. It's all a project that the legislation has saved in the administration. This is exactly why the Conspiracy restored a case that ensures that Ministers cannot make fundamental changes in the system without the intervention of Generalis. In other words, the decision of the General Assembly from the Minister or members of Parliamentary Congress as to whether a minister is permitted to negotiate the management of health - care institutions. This means that the Ministers and members of Parliaments lay this out at the General Assembly, where the discussion will be handled. Thus, there will be a clear frame around the commission that a minister has to negotiate each time. For that reason, I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister, because I think this is an important matter, whether he considers the arrangements we are now suitable and that we should continue to do so or whether he agrees with the Community and the bill at any given moment. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir moved that the form has to be more bound.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u24	A respectable president. I come up here in another way, on a personal level, to talk about the progress I have experienced in health care services when it comes to the health care that I've had with and had in cross-cutting cooperation in the Upper Bay where society has changed much. This has required a different cooperation and a different service to the population. I've been in cooperation with the health care department in the Upper Bay, which has been very involved in the pre-emptive work we've had to do, e.g. Through the introduction of a dental protection project, we conducted an education and study, a toothbrush, and a follow-up to our health care providers. So we took the health care unit to create a co-work and permit declaration so I could talk to a nurse and a doctor about the clients who were with me at school who got a service there. For example, if a child gets hurt in my nursery, I have permission from the parents and health care department to call the clinic first and prepare the health care for the child's arrival. His parents will be there rather than at the accident site. My health care has given me information and education on the safety and health protection I provide in my school job with staff and children. I've been helping my health care so much, when, for example, I've already been able to help my health care unit. Children of bilingual age are examined in development because of my knowledge of bilingual children, who do not have health care. These discussions and a multidisciplinary approach to health protection and part of the maternal protection and school care services have increased. I am very grateful for this, and I place high expectations with psychologists, and their arrival in the clinics as well as the effects it will have on prevention and how it will improve the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u25	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A phrase for the discussion, for a discussion of health care and health care is knowing that I really need it. I feel that it is important to start as a point of view to stress that the health - care system should serve regardless of the economy, circumstances, and residences. I'm glad I heard it. A minister also emphasizes this. Health care needs to be strengthened not only in the capital area but also throughout the country so that people can attend basic services close to home. That sounds to me like there's something wrong with that. At the same time, it seems to me that we agree to promote and increase a multidisciplinary approach to health care. That's good. I'm happy if there's some exit points that we can agree on. The remainder, and, of course, the other side of the coin, is the financing. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister well described how the funding is being done today. I missed that there was nothing about how to finance extra services, because I think we agree that there is a need for more service. It is fundamental if we are going to be able to meet the basic conditions that the health - care system should serve regardless of the economy, circumstances, and residences. [[The president calls.]] It will not be torn apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u26	A respectable president. We'll talk about the health care department and I'd like to thank you for giving me a little credit to you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Son of Brjánsson Brunsson and the Supreme. A health minister for an opportunity to discuss this important part of the country's health care. Health care should generally be the first stop for patients who receive general cures, nursing, health protection, prevention and accident receptors. To strengthen the health care of the country, recent changes have been made. The current health care base has been strengthened. Mental - health care services have been increasing and need to be increased further. Motion tips have been introduced, and contributions to home nursing have been increased. During the New Year's season, a new model of payment was introduced to a Swedish model in the capital area. All of this is improved, and to improve the quality of the ministry, where the patient himself and his needs are put first. That's what counts. To me, much more important than the hairs of the business arrangement; the patient himself in first place. Despite this, in my hometown, Mosfellstown, signing editors now protest the problem of a daily shift service since February 1, after which doctors at the station have performed that service in recent decades. The rationalization of the health care of the capital area is that it is being harmonized with the field ministry. Then, as with other capitalists, there will be opportunities to use the services of the medical department in small squares outside of day - to - night work hours and until midnight, after which the service available for the capital area is the telephone service of nurses and LSH emergency receptions. I have a full understanding of the insecurity that has taken place among the people of the community who fear this loss of service. I wonder: Has a general assessment of whether this arrangement is the most practical and best way to provide people of the capital area with 24 - hour service? Or perhaps this means saving in one place while moving the cost to another, in this case the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u27	President. I wondered if this discussion is not just unnecessary. Allow me to quote Prime Minister's policy debate, by permission of the president: There is some evidence that post-mortem cuts caused an emotional impact in a large part of the nation that a community agreement to ensure access to health care has broken. In other words, it was just a thought. No, of course not. It's not natural for me to have been on the run and on such a serious matter as health care in this country. I grew up with the fact that health care was mainly medical conventions. As a result, there has been a gradual change in how many different health - care groups, nurses, and others have cooperated there. What I feel, however, is that physical therapists are more involved in cooperation, psychologists, nutritionists, and doctors. It's about equal access anywhere in the country. However, access is not only about waiting hours after interview time but also about distances and costs. I came to the highest amount of money people have to pay for domestic flights thereafter. I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister will see if he can provide more relief than is already done at the expense that people have to make in order to seek health care from the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to discuss only this new financing system that has been implemented in the Western Health Center. To me, that's a very positive thing. One thing I believe is that this system covers all stations within the area regardless of the management sector, which is a significant positive change from what was once being done. It simplifys the whole comparison. This simple quality control, simple cost monitoring, and is simply a matter of righteousness. In addition to these changes, it is assumed that it is specially paid for such services as school care, interpretation services at the hands of the public stations, and then aims to pay more than ever before. Is that in harmony with a government covenant? The financing model, on the other hand, is based on a cost-registered figure based on the number of individuals enrolled in the station, sex, and age. Stops with a relative number of individuals over 65 years of age, and the percentage of more infants are simply paid more than the number of stations that have a relative lower body weight of middle - aged patients. It also reflects the estimate of the scope of the ministry in terms of the disease burden of certain registered individuals. It also includes social conditions known and studies showing that there is an interconnection, i.e. the frequency of visits on stations and social conditions. Then this change, the positive changes in the funding system, means that people can simply choose where they register. In the system, a built - in force for good service is also used. My question to the highest. Healthcare Ministers: Has this been examined or is it intended to examine whether this system can be extended to clinics, national health institutions, and then adopt other factors, which are then designed or specifically subject to national conditions? [[The president calls.]] Then I mean, for example. removes from clinics and things like that. Such an impulse may in my opinion be one of the ways to attract workers, doctors, at these places, but as we know, the problem of design is quite widespread. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u29	V.E.G. President. I like others to thank you. paritaprevir The Brjánsson S. son of Hamon for starting this discussion. She's needed and I hear that we're all very much in agreement, and most of them sound to me, which gives you good hopes that something good will lead to this second fine discussion. I'm sure it's the highest. A minister takes her to him and gets a little lunch in his work. When you listen to so many people and you're last on the list, there's so much you want to say, but time is short. I just want to come back to the financing system and the work that was once the highest level. A health minister started with regard to the construction of health care, health care in the capital area. I'm happy about it, of course, but I'm worried about the country. I heard you were at the highest. A minister noted earlier that he intended to adopt even a similar system in other lands. I'll ask them the highest. Minister: When could that be? What time frame are we talking about? I don't feel that people in the country can wait five, ten, or fifteen years to improve health care in their territory. I want like more, huh? paritaprevir Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir and Elsa Lára Arnardóttir named it, to find out how different the situation is. You may then, for example. Consider a number of tourist attractions in the South, which greatly add to the pressures of health care. Our program of health care, including those of the candidate, is discussed by the Management Board of Jehovah's Witnesses. considering that there are different factors in the country. I'd like to hear what's at the highest. Minister has this to say. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir came into a very important point, that while saving in one place, the cost may be being shifted to another place. [[The president calls.]] I don't have any more time. There are many things to take, and I look forward to hearing what I have to say. Minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u30	Madam President. V.E.G. Secretary of health. I thank the Minister for participation in this and other discussions. Councilmen for their share. There is no need to determine how close and dear this discussion is to all the people, health care. It is vital that this community service stand firm and that we do not allow ourselves to be loosed in structure and organization. But now there's a privateisation laboratory going on. Four clinics have had an ideal contract, and I understood the highest. There is no need to continue getting public health institutions into this same system. Did I get it all wrong? Health care is one of the basics of civilized society, and health protection is a large and profound concept as we know it. Of course, we are becoming increasingly separate from social and health services, since these factors are so intertwined. Rather, it is talking about welfare services, where we have health and public health goals as a red thread, the factors that we can have so much impact on ourselves in our daily lives. There are different conditions in the country. That is, whether we are dealing with the largest urban town or rural area. If it comes to our mind that we want to seek the equality of our citizens regardless of the population, we need to give up a great deal, including this factor. And before long, we're talking about regional and regional policy. That, of course, is one reason. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to clarify matters a little more, to speak more clearly to the country. How will he build up, rebuild, break health care, and provide health care in the country? People and health - care directors are in expectation of improvement, especially after reading the minister's declaration of policy and the prime minister's conference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u31	Madam President. I thank you again so much for this discussion and for good advice. Senators. I want to come in on a few points at the end, as I can in two minutes. Many have talked about a new system of payment that is being implemented in the capital area. This system of payment represents public health care of the capital area as well as private stations, but I would like to remind you that these stations are run by the health professionals who operate there themselves. It is asked when and whether to transfer this arrangement to the national health care facilities. I think it may be a little early to say exactly what time it is or when it should happen. We are still experiencing the results of this change, but the first signs seem to be very positive. It is important to also recognize that the reality in the region is widely different from that in the capital area, due to distances, because of human birth, there are other challenges. There may not be the same answers as in the capital area. Therefore, I especially want to point out the development of a long - term, long - term, public - health service program, and I believe that some of the nature of the ministry will be changed. This also means that with stronger clinics now being employed in all four parts of the country, there is a greater chance of providing more service, sharing people, etc. I see my time is up. At the end, I want to thank you very much for the discussion. It's obvious that me and at least A large group of senators here have much to say about the health care department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u32	A respectable president. I would like to mention only the meeting team's activities. That's why I was trying to find out earlier when the Senate was doing it. It works, so at 8:00 a.m. e - mails are required to arrange an appointment for the council. For many of us, it's the time when we have kids crawling over our heads and trying to get them to school. It's very complicated to get it all together at the time. It's also very different if you reset it so that the mail is sent automatically, it's just like rolling dice. I wanted to direct it to the President and the Presidency Committee to review how we will be assigned to the council in cooperation with all members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u33	Madam President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there is no meeting schedule tomorrow. The program has not been scheduled for a meeting for the week. This makes it really impossible to plan ahead. Sometimes you have a lot to do, sometimes you don't have much to do, sometimes you can just prepare until next week. What a blessing it would be to have access to our program! You sometimes hear out on the others and on those issues to take place, and luckyly, you get news from a prime committee or a meeting of the council groups meeting. I wish for President to have an attempt to prepare the week and publish in advance. Of course, one has an understanding that it is not always possible, that is often some type of crisis, but it must normally be possible. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u34	President. I would like to agree primarily with my associates, who have previously discussed the need to be more reasonable and better organized in the matter of Congress. I realize that the tradition has been that you get to know the schedule of tomorrow maybe at midnight the night before. But I have strong faith in the current president, and I challenge the president and the Presidency Committee to find a way for the next week to be always on Fridays, all the program, including special discussions, and extracurricular talks. I am convinced that all members of Congress want to be well prepared. It is very uncomfortable to have no time to prepare, since we are very often at committees in the morning. It would improve the appearance of the Council if we were to know what the program will be a few days earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u35	Madam President. If there are others and more experienced, why? Senators have come up here to discuss this matter, I'm going to let myself do the same. To tell you the truth, I was afraid it was only normal. I was just wondering if it could be. I don't feel that this is primarily about disrespect for us members of Congress and that we cannot and must prepare for matters in a very short period of time; of course, this is primarily disrespectful toward the nation, that it is not possible for members of Congress to prepare and work on it. We should make this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u36	Madam President. I want to agree with them. Councilmen here have expressed themselves about the activities of the council. It is, in fact, quite frankly, that after the long torture that it took to get her out of the government. I would have thought that men would be more ready to do the job than they would, in fact, gather in. Meanwhile, we stay here and we'll be in the conference room then and when things are done for us. I agree specifically with what. Einarsson It's just a matter of democracy, that the discussion here is based on the fact that we can make a good impression, be prepared, come to the assembly, and be worthy of the democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u37	Madam President. It's quite safe to agree that it's a little strange to come into this place, which I don't want to call the workplace, but anyway, we're working here together. You realize that the nature of Congress work is a little different than working in a company where a government operates with the company and you know pretty much what to do. But I'd like to agree that it would be really good if a little streamlined. But I've been out of Congress for a long time, and somehow I recognize the discussion. It seems to be exactly the same at every assembly, no matter who the council is or who the council is, so maybe it's just not possible. Should we not, though, try one more time? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] .
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u38	Madam President. I want to agree with the members of Congress who have called for a better organization. A better organization will join us in preparing and expecting the better discussions and better decisions. But I especially want to talk about what happened at the council, how we enter into that team. I can tell you that we were in the House three members of the United States Congress room. We were there 10 minutes before 8 since we had another meeting at 8 o'clock, but we'd like to sign up on Logi Einarsson, chairman of the United States, so he could talk about Gylfi Þ. Gíslason being 100 years old today if he had lived. We're waiting for the song that precedes the eight stories on State Radio. But this morning the song was too late. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] But we realized that, and we pressed the ◯send, and he was the number nine in the row. The clock was just a few seconds past eight. It's kind of just a joke, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u39	The president has received a message from members of Congress, and he wants to state that the president has requested a nominee at the Parliamentary Committee from all members of the Parliament, which will be considered in what way we would like to consider possible changes in the council. I have experience in the Senate that there is considerable conservativeness in such changes, but I have hoped, in view of the discussion here, that some new senators as well as some older senators are interested in and willing to change things for the better. The dream is, of course, that this is a family-friendly workplace where everyone can be prepared for a game. I hope we can all join together on that. In order to end this, we're going to address the President's conference board. 3.m. Smoke. N., Birgitta Jónsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u40	President. I'm so glad to hear that you're in a hurry. A senator is sorry that he accepted this most important work in behalf of all members of the council. I'd also like to point out that it is absolutely necessary for us to legalize certain matters in the Senate without the need to make a complete change in the political order of solutions to compromise. This has often prevented us from making important changes, little changes that are important, all below. I challenge the members of Congress as well as the president of the Generals to take steps to correct the small things. I am convinced that the President will be well-aided from every category of members of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u41	Madam President. I was just going to draw attention to some words. paritaprevir Mysterious Harðardóttir, Oddný G., promoted the conscientious and industriousness of the Group of the United States. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] So we all attended when the clock was ten minutes short for eight to register alone in the council. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u42	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize additional financial corporation surveillance. The objective of the bill is to establish the rules of financing financial organisations in order to secure the credibility and stability of financial markets. The monitoring of financial corporations is mainly in the control of their financial status. The regulations of the bill add to the law of No. 161/2002, on financial companies, and on law No. 100/2016, about insurance management, and is aimed at covering the risks of major and complex conglomerations and contributing to effective monitoring of them. Budgeting is a kit where a surveillance provider will be assigned to the kit or at least One of the sex partners in the kit is a follow-up party. They need at least one party to work in financial fields and at least One person in a disaster area and a joint discussion of each person's activities needs to be considered important. Technical conglomerates are not currently active in this country, but they can change, and it is therefore important that there be legal regulations about the need for additional monitoring. Economic conglomerates can be systematicly important, improving the availability of a clear box. The bill is based on 2002/87/EC's Directive, the addition of loan control, insurance companies and companies in the stock market, and the Directive 2011/89/EU, which changed the previous Directive. Additional monitoring of financial conglomerates is the monitoring of financial tolerance as well as monitoring the integration of risks and commerce within the kit. It must be ensured that, no matter where the budget is, the surveillance will reach all members of the financial conglomerate. The bill therefore provides guidelines consistent with monitoring and management practices for the European Economic Area (EEC) Member States, which monitor partners in the corporation, as well as the setting of a framework for information exchange between control authorities. There are also options to obtain the information if any of the controls do not respond to a request to deliver it. The build-up of the bill is on the way that, first of all, a definition of when it comes to financial conglomerates is used, secondly, general regulations for the control of financial corporations and which party will fall under the control of the bill. Third, there is an additional monitoring program on financial conglomerates. These regulations apply when a corporation operates in more than one state and is involved with the European Economic Area cooperation of the Commission. Fourth, there is a law on communication with countries that are not members of the European Economic Area. A respectable president. The bill is made up of a group of personnel appointed by the Ministry, the F.A.S. and the Committee for Economic Affairs and thus leading stakeholders to the bill. The main impact of the bill, if legal, is to strengthen the infrastructure of the financial system where there is an increased demand for financial cohesion. The bill is designed to establish trust in a financial market and will prepare it if financial corporations operate in Iceland. The second impact of the bill is that the EU Member States will meet with the same rules as all cooperation and monitoring in the region, therefore, will be simpler and more practical. I believe it is important that the bill succeeds in strengthening the surveillance of financial markets in this country. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u43	Mr. President. It is good to increase the monitoring of financial activities and especially of such conglomerations. However, I notice that the bill is now almost overall in the regulations of the FEC. About 55% of the bill is correct in the rules, and when the numbers are numbered and the individual word changes are excluded, it goes well to 90%. Our main additions seemed rather insignificant to me. I might have missed something there. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What results are being made to legalize this, except that we can work on the lead-in for the EEA Convention? It is a good goal in itself to shorten that tail, but it still raises questions as to whether this is a priority. Financial and economic ministers. Why do I ask, "Is this a rush? " What is the basis for this priorities? Is there anything else that should have happened earlier in the process, or is it just so that it was already there at the Ministry, which may have been made by the Supreme Court? Minister? I ask these questions in order to try to figure out the process because this is one of many issues that are being presented today, with very technical issues that are good in many respects, but it may be possible to understand the process a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u44	A respectable president. The answer is that it is absolutely right. Senator. True, I can't confirm the percentages exactly, but this is developing rules established by the FDA. However, these are regulations to be carried out by the FESH and were considered reasonable in strengthening the foundation of their rules of rules so that they were set up by the General Assembly and established, not by the government, but by rules that it should enforce itself. There are a lot of things we need to introduce. They come in a variety of ways. I can convince you why. A senator that has not been made a coup in the Ministry of finance. There are many fine employees. But we will present a case in accordance with the Government Constitution list and hopefully end it in spring as already presented. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the economy is a good answer. It is good to take advantage of this opportunity to inquire about the Import Hall. In view of what we should be, how far are we to follow? I haven't seen any particular number in that material. Is there any further rules in the SEC or other institutions that would be worth discussing here at the council in light of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u46	A respectable president. Now I have to admit, I'm not smart at what rules it might be. I just have to admit my ignorance of that. But I think it's about eighteen cases that we're going to legalize in order to rebuild the draft hall. Of these, there are two members of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs who are in both the Government Records for us. I hope, then, that we will finish what we turn to springtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of his history in this matter. As noted in his case, there is a bill that is being passed, we can say, improve a rule that has already been introduced, including ... throughtheSECE Rules. Materially, that is not how much change is made. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the big image this is part of, i.e. the extensive introduction to various regulations related to financial monitoring. V.E.G. A minister visited the Economic Committee yesterday and studied the Constitution list. It showed that much of the Senate's highest legal list. A minister is precisely the induction of such regulations, with considerable increased emphasis in the European Union on the monitoring of these sectors. During the last council, it was established that power was too advanced to the international monitoring agencies when a resolution was adopted which was aimed at delivering authority into a so - called two - strengthening solution, where a comparable financial surveillance system will be built up on the EFTA side and has been decided to build up the European Union side. This was not the case with everyone. So I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Minister, also the leader of one of the administrations, leader of a new platoon at the General Assembly, what his position is on this matter in the Iceland Constitution. Does he think, in view of this great cooperation he is now learning in his office as secretary of finance and economics, that such provisions for expeditation are required in a constitution, or does he believe that the Constitution of the current constitutions will be carried out by the arrangement that is present?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u48	A respectable president. To answer, I believe that we are at the very end of the Constitution in terms of the exposition of power. I think it would be advisable to accept a law of change to the Constitution that authorized a limited expeditation of power to overnational institutions so that we would be safe in this context. In terms of the prime reports coming up on financial surveillance, I think it's very important. I think one of the lessons we can draw from the collapse is that there was a lack of surveillance in many areas, not just here, but around the world. The primes that are now coming into our home on an assembly line are part of trying to improve the existing process and to prevent the sudden recurrence of the financial system that occurred when the financial system collapsed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I understand that when he says we're on the edge of the constitution, he thinks that cases would be better put in place if such a restricted exposition was in place in the constitution. It is interesting to know whether he intends to apply himself to the work being offered by the government in terms of the Constitution. Furthermore, I would like to mention that it is right to the highest degree. According to a minister, the response to the collapse and crisis were, of course, a largely improved surveillance of the financial market. We've seen countless commands coming in, creating stiffer frames, setting up extra rules and extra checks. But there are also countless criticismal references that while culture and the environment do not change within financial institutions, observation may serve a limited purpose. Tells you the highest. Ministers to the European Union and the European Economic Area's response to their purpose, or is he concerned that they may look back on the same situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up because it's a special hobby of mine. I have read a lot about how to react to the crash, how to react to financial institutions abroad, explanations that have been sought for why that happened. I think what was part of the question was that it was a moral problem. There was a moral breakdown here in the banking system. I think you're right. It needs to be done in more places than merely by new legislation. About a question why. I believe that there is a agreement between the government parties that such regulations should be part of the change in the constitution scheduled for the election period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u51	Mr. President. I'm welcome if this bill shows the importance of a newly appointed financial minister on additional financial surveillance despite the lack of extensive physical changes in financial control. However, there is an expected increase in the duties and activities of the UN as well as the carrying out of regular stress tests on financial cohesion, cooperation with other Member States' management bodies in agreements for the EU and the Member States involved in the creation of the European Free Trade Association (FAP), and a number of projects that are expected to increase the burden on the staff of the Commission. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance on how to finance this growing project that the UN is supposed to do according to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u52	A respectable president. It may not be expected that there will be a very additional cost at the beginning of this bill because, as we get along, no Icelandic company will be able to supply this right now. But as I pointed out in my background, that can, of course, change. There have been situations here in a country where an enterprise has fallen under such supervision. Here we are trying to block the well before the baby falls into it. But I expect less time will not be due to this additional cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for his reply, although few were involved, is glad that a defined goal is to block the well before the infant falls into it, as he put it. Am I right, then, that no suggestions have been made on this bill? It may be more appropriate for the Committee to discuss if some form of proposal has not been implemented because of the cost that will likely come under trial. The staff who wrote this bill included A representative from the financial organisations. I wondered if this organization had nothing to say when it came to the expense of this increased work of the FEC.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u54	A respectable president. I certainly said I'm based on the low cost because there won't be any business under this right now. However, it can be noted that, of course, there is a general warrant for reimbursement and this warrant has been applied by the General when the financial cost of FEC has increased, this last December. We're paying off the bandorm from what? The Economic and Business Committee. I suppose this will be done in a similar way if there is an additional cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u55	Mr. President. There are a few things I would like to talk about this bill. As I said earlier, I'd always like to increase my financial control, and if such supervision is lacking, it can be very bad. But I would like to ask two things first and ask myself two questions. On the one hand, there is an addition in the bill between the laws that must be required and the report. I've never seen that arrangement before in my bill, and I'm curious to know its value, whether it's part of the law, or if it's considered to be some kind of law in some unusual costume. Is this part of a piece of paper, and so it's just a legal statement, or is it all different? I'm not fully aware of that. It may be that this was there before on other primes, even the law, but I've never seen it. But the other thing, perhaps more important, is that the exceptions in the bill are quite numerous, especially in chapters 6 and 20. They allow the SEC to avoid this additional monitoring if they have their main activity in a state outside the EU or the European Economic Area, where national legislation is supposed to block access to relevant information. I think it's going against what's at the highest. A minister once insisted that this is valid regardless of where the corporation operates. It means that if I were to create this sort of conglomerate, which should always fall under these laws, where it would be with that kind of activity, in a country like Vanuatu, the British Virgin Islands, Belize, or something like that, and then then put up with some station in Iceland, I would, in fact, be avoiding the requirements of the bill, simply by having a job in a country where there is no access to information about the company and then could threaten the economic situation of the country without any additional control coming to history. I think it's a pretty special way to write songs. It is not as if people have never established a business in a foreign country to avoid a regular work. In fact, there are some of them. Councilmen did, and quite for that. Why not create exceptions that are easy to bend by, and always have some sort of extrasightiness for some special case that should not exist, simply not allowing a work that falls for some reason not under that supervision, whether we call the surveillance or follow-up, which we require an Icelandic company to fall under? I think it's really weird that it's not. It also says in a paper with the bill that criteria for information increase transparency. But I don't see anything on the bill that specifically suggests that it has some special transparency. At least not to the public. It would be good to learn a lesson from the collapse and to improve the work programme by having a considerable greater transparency for the public into the financial system, but such a translucency also means that the media and the Academy have access to information and thus the ability to determine whether everything is correct. We know that what is being done with this bill is good. But somehow it is not quite clear that if there is no transparency, the bill will achieve its objective. And in addition, it is really very easy to avoid all the rules involved in the bill, just by creating an enterprise group and some sort of chain through the area of the country that is over and over for discussion here at the council. So I suggest that if the bill is to be realized that it will make significant changes, especially by addressing the lack of transparency that is mostly 20. but also 6 pars. and, in fact, a few other articles on the bill. Twenty-nineth. The bill says: In particular, the Commission can decide to test the product information of a person which is part of a financial conglomerate and located in another Member State. I feel that this phrase, in particular cases, is designed to create a very large range of interpretation that may not be needed. The two words could be out of the question, saying that the F.O.B. can be found when there is a reason to test the facts. Usually you don't have to test information unless you think someone is cheating, lying, kidding. It may be either possible or not, but this phrase, in certain cases, may be used to say that there is not enough reason to verify it. In fact, there are a number of problems on the bill, which are still done with good intentions and, of course, have been implemented in various European and EEA countries. But I find it absolutely necessary to fix the many faults involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u56	A respectable president. I think this bill for law is a good price. But I have to say, because there are no financial conglomerates in Iceland yet, I would like to consider that there are all kinds of tokens on our own market. Now it's back to giving 95% credit, so I encourage the Minister to be careful not to be too preoccupied with implementing commands and rules and other things that we certainly have to do, but also considering our local kind of market where things often happen very quickly. We need to keep an absolute eye on him. I wanted to put it up here. There's something else I'd like to ask the Minister about and distract me. It is that when we assess the impact of the bill, it is said that the bill can influence fluctuation in the economy, where the sources of the UNECE for financial monitoring are increasing, thereby responding to the compression or contracts in the economy. I wondered, " Is the SEC ever given authority? ' Is financial control in foreign lands even authorized to respond to filaments or contracts on the financial markets elsewhere? Who can come in there? Is it unique financial surveillance, or is it the collective financial watch that enters it? I can't quite tell when I read the bill. I may have missed it, but I cut it off. As we know, there is a lot we have to bring in and a lot of good things that come through the EEA Convention. However, I strongly encourage the Minister to pay very close attention to what is going on in our own financial market, especially in the light of the new information we have received about the expansion of real estate markets and what's going on with it, it's paying a lot more than we can buy. We all know from the time such loans were given at the time that when loans increase and the amount of money in traffic is increasing, there is going to be a very rapid rise. I don't think that's what we need right now in a real estate market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u57	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of temporary adjustment of regulations in the new courts. This consists of three changes involving the commission of the Commission on the ability of judges, the implementation of dates for the work of the Committee as well as the residence of the National Court. As we know, last year, the General Assembly approved two laws of law that lay the foundation for a new court order in Iceland. On one hand, there is a new total law on courts and on the other, a law on civil treatment and the treatment of criminal matters. In the autumn General then adopted a law on changing laws needed to adapt legislation to a new legal system. On the basis of this law, a new court order is being introduced in Iceland, and it will be legalized by a new court, a national court, on January 1, 2018. At the beginning of the work in preparation for the National Court, it has been found that legislation has to be made so that the induction process is going smoothly. Then you can expect that, as the wind becomes a project, further adaptation and technical adjustments in legislation can be made. I will then go further to the content of the changes proposed in the bill discussed here. As noted by the bill, a new law on the courts was proposed that when a judge's office at the National Court was first appointed, a committee was given to the applicant's ability to serve as a judge, a committee acting on the basis of Article 4. a current court law, No. 15/1998, and the regulations on the committee, are intended to take into account the applications for the office of judges at the National Court for the first time. Treatment of applications in the same way as in general for the treatment of applications today for the office of the Supreme Court Court and the local Court. This is in accordance with what is required in the new courts of next year. Upon further inspection, it has been found in Article 4. a Current Justice Act is the Commission's commission to the applicants for the office of local judges and the Supreme Court. It is therefore proper to state strictly in the provisional terms of the new court law that the committee is responsible for dealing with candidates for the first court office of judges at the National Court. It is suggested that the application treatment be similarly followed by a current law so that a minister is prohibited from appointing a judge to whom the jury has not considered fit for candidates, whether alone or in combination. In the same way as we do today, however, a minister may decline from appointing the one appointed by the committee to be the most qualified if the Allied Council agrees with the Minister's proposal. But as stated in Article 2. The provision for temporary IV shall be made by the Minister for each and one order by the judges before the Council for approval. Will be expected to do so in spring. Therefore, this is merely a strengthening aid for the projects expected to be the treatment of applications for the office of judges at the National Court for the first time working on a new court law. A respectable president. In this context, this setting is as good as any to mention that this arrangement of judging is not under criticism; it has, in fact, been criticized. Then I refer to the procedure set out in the law and in the rules of the Committee on Choices that involve choosing the one appointed by the committee to be the most qualified and to judge. Since its legalization in 2010, I myself have put my criticism of this arrangement. Changing the arrangement was considered at this point so that it would be as if it were the responsibility of a minister to select a judge after the permission of a selection committee. Of course, it is obvious that with the arrangement now being carried out by the minister's office, there is a significant opportunity to discuss where a minister is actually bound by a committee's decision on this at least. who prey on those whom the committee considers fittest. In spite of the responsibility of a judge's orders still being held by a minister, the extenuating authority exists. However, I concluded that it was deliberate to have the arrangement, as it has been in the past few years at the order of a judge to the court of the land that this time it is a massive order. There will be 15 judges at once, and unlike other commands, they will be given under the General Assembly as confirmation. I just wanted to take this opportunity to mention that I'm interested in making plans to make changes in this arrangement over the next few years, i.e. The procedures of the Committee on Justice. A respectable president. It was the right to advertise the new Court's office until the above legal adjustments were placed before the Council that we are doing here today. This suggests that there will be a change in the timing of the provisional rules we make so that better time will be allowed to complete the command. According to the bill, the procedure will be completed no later than July 1, 2017, instead of June 1, 2017, as expected by the law. Based on the fact that the Committee submits its assessment of candidates at the beginning of May, the person mentioned here should have the time to make a decision to make a proposal for a judge to the Council and the General Assembly, in the same way, to give him time to review the recommendations of a minister and decide before the end of the assembly in spring, which is expected to be at the end of May. Then, in June, the order of each judge was finally decided. It is unchanged that judges should be appointed from January 1, 2018, with the exception of the president of the court, but it is suggested that judges be elected presidents and vice presidents by the 20th of July. instead of the appointment of the president of the court from July 1st, 2017. A respectable president. I'll have to repeat this sentence so we can't compromise. Instead of being appointed to the court's president on July 1, 2017, it is suggested that he be appointed from August 1, 2017. An order must also be delayed in the administration of the Court of Justice, where the Court's president will be in charge. The Court's administration will then be arranged from August 1st. ... insteadofJuly 1st. The New Court of Justice states that the establishment of the National Court should be in Reykjavík in the same manner as that of Iceland's Supreme Court in Reykjavík. The work has been done to find suitable housing for the land's rights. It has not only looked forward to the building and temporary housing that may not be any better. It is designed to build a new facility for the court in Reykjavík and has for some time been looked at in particular at the so - called Council of Management, in the city of Reykjavík, and is starting a new home for the future. But it is clear that it will take several years to build such a house. It has been difficult to find suitable housing for the court in Reykjavík. The facility most appropriate to the court's needs, after a great search, is located in Kópavogur. Since the National Court should have residence in Reykjavík, it is necessary to make the adjustment laid down here for five years to allow this court to reside outside the city of Reykjavík for a temporary period of five years. It is then anticipated that after that a new home for the court will be prepared. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the subject of this bill. The change in the legal order of next year is a great act of justice if not one of the biggest things we have ever done in our legal system. This restoration has been done in great peace for all who have done this work, including here at the General Assembly. The changes suggested here are, in fact, technically. Therefore, I hope that the Allied Council will clear this up as soon as possible so that the induction will not be any further delayed, and the National Court will be able to proceed in disintegration on January 1, 2018. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u58	A respectable president. Here we consider the proper rules and orders of judges in the new Court of the Land. For that reason, I would like to ask the highest question. The Minister of Justice, whether there is any reason to set specific requirements for the appointment of judges, which include that, in addition to the norm, sexual equality should be viewed in particular. Of course, the purpose would be to work progressively to balance gender proportions with judges. Here is a new court of law at birth, 15 judges who arrive to serve there. It seems that this is a unique opportunity to equalize the establishment of this new court.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u59	A respectable president. Of course, it is vital that the order of the new court be successful in considering all kinds of views. It is very important that people with different backgrounds from the legal world, not just present courts or men who have done judicial work, but many other legal jobs, lawyers from the educational community, the county men, and so on. These are all points of view that the Commission or the judges'qualifications look to all equal, and no doubt they also look to a different background, such as gender. I am not a spokesman for binding it into law not to choose an individual by sex, rather than an individual's ability. I have full faith that women and men alike will meet all the appropriate conditions that would normally be proposed to the order of judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u60	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I don't doubt it any more than I do. Ministers that women are as capable of judging as men. For some reason, it is so now that in spite of their qualifications, women in the class of judges and in other areas may still be more suitable. Then, of course, we have a law on equality in the country and that gender is to be taken into account. But there are instruments to see whether the courts and the courts feel bound by that law. What's the Minister's opinion of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u61	A respectable president. I also want to be held accountable that there have been a point of view, almost a court order that by the order of the Supreme Court the judges will be looked particularly upon by the other and these professions. I have not been a spokesman for that being done, e.g. binding it into law that many people should be experienced in legal matters, in legal matters, or in administrative matters, and so on. Similarly, I do not generally consider well - being to think of an order as important as a court order is in a way that a proselytizing is to call upon the possibility of being done, if I correctly understand it, that there is a specific gender motive. I don't feel that this discussion is an equal talk, either, if you don't mind me saying. It's a question of whether equality is valid for the courts. [[The president calls.]] I would agree that the law that is generally valid in this country, of course, applies to all areas of society, including courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u62	A respectable president. I'd like to inquire of a minister on the way to the court order to prepare for a minister and pass through the council to appoint judges. Because human works are not above the criticism, as the minister so correctly noted, I would like to recall that when the matter was originally discussed before a year, four groups of members proposed a change in the requirement that more parts, two thirds, have to be allowed to pass through the council. I now do not expect the minister to allow a vision of being a part of a government with at least a small proportion, so that a simple bit more things would be enough for the Minister to get his judges through the council. So I would like to ask a minister from a viewpoint of righteousness rather than his position as a minister in this thirty-two members of the government, would it not be careful to increase the strength of Congress needed to pass through here on judicial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u63	A respectable president. Yes, it may be appropriate to call this some kind of bypass that this time this unique appointment for the first time at the National Court, i.e. that a case of an order of 15 judges is submitted to the General because it is not at all done. I see no reason except for this confirmation of the values of the same rules and values in general when the Council confirms the proposals of the Council for various committees or members of committees. Well, then, it's just a simple bit more. That's only democracy. A lot more things are just more things, that's democracy. Besides, I don't expect to be caught and found in the Generals' sales because of a judge's orders at the National Court, but I would think it would be extremely unfortunate if people were to handle this case with political glasses and to view these judges as the judges of that court for that matter and that time. Of course, that is not the case. For all applicants, a panel of persons who have been selected from different sources will be discussed as to whether they are suitable or not. It's extremely dangerous, to say the least, I think, if at the beginning they're going to think of it as some kind of political thing. If so, I would be sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u64	Mr. President. I don't doubt that on this committee like many others in the government, the fittest and most potential people are. The same can be done, e.g. says of the Supreme Court, which this winter has only called to men as guardians, and that in view of the fact that last year the United Nations directed its recommendations to Iceland to increase the number of women in the Supreme Court. I ask it, because the minister has described it as contrary to sexuality, whether it would specifically oppose this voodoo that seems to be so thoroughly involved with the people in the Supreme Court. I am concerned that if not taken to the ground, it would spread to this new level of judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u65	A respectable president. Yeah, you're right. I generally lie against sexuality. I'm not gonna comment on it, I haven't watched it, but I'll believe it if you do. One senator noted that the few reserves appointed were all men. Now I don't know how many people are involved in this case, but I'm not worried about anything except that women are many in the class of judges. This has been shown to be true in the local courts. It just tells itself that once there are 50 percent change in law now between the sexes, this happens in a natural way. I don't think there's any need to intervene with any specific action in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u66	A respectable president. I want to start by talking on the same line as my colleagues here, okay? Councilmen, and only discuss gender equality, particularly with the CHMP in the order of these courts. As a minister may be aware, the Court's government has disregarded clear laws of equality in the order of a representative of the judicial committee since 2009, and as a result, it has been compared to the independence of a judicial authority, namely. to them the law of equality, which includes ordering, is certainly not necessary, but not to seek to appoint the sex rather if there are two equally qualified individuals. This is something that the ruling committees of the court have ignored and bore the independence of a court of law. I couldn't help it at the highest. Minister to examine the design of this bill to ensure that there are also equal roles between men and women in these selection committees, for we see it only on orders in the Supreme Court that men choose men in the court? Then I have another question that points directly to the Sermon on the Mount. Just before, a minister told her that she had proposed changes in the procedure of a judicial committee in choosing judges. What kind of change is the highest. Minister to refer? And is it her intention to get them through by order of 15 judges in the Country Court? Is it not then a reason to improve the diversity of the committee? What rules are that exactly as high as possible? Minister's refering? Is it Regulation 620/2010, or is it a court law of law itself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u67	A respectable president. So today, the selection committee for a qualified committee or a committee appointed to suit candidates for judicial office is currently appointed by three men and two women, a committee, which was, in fact, appointed before my time. Sometimes it is that in a five - man committee, equal genders may be difficult to match. So I haven't noticed this problem exists. Nor do I agree with the claim that men always choose men. There are some women who have sat in the Supreme Court, and I again make a legal case in the district courts. As to the second question about the plan or my ideas for changing the law on the workings of this committee, it is a 4th paragraph. a Current Justice Act requiring that the Committee be submitted to the minister of a list of candidates in which candidates are arranged so that some are most qualified and others are not. The law states that the minister is bound by this choice of who is the most qualified and must appoint judges whom the committee has chosen. It's been like this lately, not always, but lately it's been so that a minister is given very little leeway, i.e. If a judge is being appointed, perhaps one, possibly two, has been most respected. Therefore, the minister's range is small, so my minister's freedom is to address the views that have been tore up here, e.g. ... aboutthegenders' equality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I'd like to ask you a little bit about the diversity of another part of the Commission order. I would like to be curious about whether a minister is appropriate to consider whether it might be useful for a judicial committee to be appointed more than lawyers to ensure better diversity and better trust and understanding of local courts, that there are individuals who have a greater education than legal education. As we know, there seems to be such a legal act on the committees and General counsel, as well as on the administration. I wonder, " Why not look to a more diverse group of individuals for an important office? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u69	A respectable president. Of course, the Commission is assigned a small part of a role to review the theoretical background of candidates, now mainly the most important. I'm not saying that it can't be considered and that it can't be useful for a committee like this to have more than a set of lawmen on board, but I would show them that the committee is even. organized by members of the General Assembly or members selected by the General of the Council. Well, I guess that's why the General reviewed it. This is the view that the General can easily have of his choice. But more vessels on the committee. It's the Supreme Court, and it's the Legal Society, and it's not unusual for them to look after their own people on the committee. I got it. I got it. A senator to discern this view when it comes to dealing with these matters with Generalis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u70	A respectable president. Thank you for a lot of helpful discussions about the bill we have in mind. I'd like to discuss a few things that I find important in that context. First, I'd like to refer to the government's purpose to build confidence in the foundations of society, including the courts, and really discuss the bill in that light. To me, it is very important to keep three in mind when it comes to strengthening public confidence in courts. Here we are talking about a whole new court. It matters how he is standing and how he is appointed and how he is reasonable about it. I'd like to use this opportunity to be less than the highest. Minister and chief. The government is to choose judges to reflect the diversity of society in all its forms. The view of the justice system should be neutral, fair, and reasonable, taking into account that abnormal views do not work with the order of judges and that evaluation of judges is not performed by choice, especially by some male lawyers in closed communicators. In this context, I would like to refer to the review of Áslaug Björgvinsdóttir, former state judge, on the 615 matter, a bill for a court hearing, including a summary of her key comments at a meeting of the General and Education Committee on April 19, 2016, where she had a number of interesting things to say about the proposed changes to the courts, and a proposed arrangement for the National Court and Choice. As a review Áslaug out, President May: Since 2009 the Court's decision - making committees have ignored clear laws of equality on the order of a representative of the judges' decision - appointed committee and carried on the independence of a court order. She says women are missing in the Supreme Court, but like what. A senator noted earlier, from March 7, we have a recommendation from the United Nations regarding the immediate increase of women in the Supreme Court. Further, she says: ▪ It is not guaranteed that a judge's selection committee is working professionally, but over the past few years it has its findings and constantly emphasis on the ability of candidates to be critical and even if it has a natural feeling. Evidently, most of the 15 judges at the National Court will come from a series of local judges. The district courts are far from equipped to lose all of the finest judges on one board. And at last, so I go back to equal: ▪ It is not guaranteed that equality laws apply to order in all committees and the Council of the Court. Prominent authority of the court will continue to be available for judicial intervention. It is not guaranteed that government laws will apply to the courts or to a realistic surveillance of the courts and the responsibility of their rulers. Since 2003 the bill is not answered. In view of the last comment, I would like to discuss what I also find very important to take place, and it is that the Court's administration is subject to administrative and information laws, as are other governments and other administrative decisions. This is where I feel compelled to repeat myself and ask that the voters of Iceland who are taking control decisions be made to comply with administrative laws and information laws, but that is not relevant to the administration of administrative authorities in Iceland today. I like to review the overall review of this case and to create a whole new court order that we keep in mind that the legal protection of the individuals involved in the judicial system as well as the public's legal standing on this important part of the government in terms of information laws and administrative laws is very important. That's why I want it to be directed to the highest level. Minister to consider whether to add it, as in the handling of a decision, that the Court's administration is being carried out in accordance with administrative laws and information laws. That's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u71	A respectable president. Like what? A senator I am again in the same position as when we spoke to the administrations around the board for Christmas. I take my heart to see her ideas of bringing land rights under administrative and information laws and, of course, equality laws should apply there, like anywhere else in the country. V.E.G. In one of his answers, a minister said that the General was not always the best person to abide by equality laws, and that is absolutely true and is by no means honorable. Just like the rest of this country, we have laws, especially laws that have the same value as the basics of society and the equal positions of men and women. So I'd like to agree with the senator and thank her for also calling attention to the comments of District Björgvinsdóttir Áslavjörn Áslaug's daughter, when the case was first discussed, there are many benefits to this order. I'd like to ask the senator why, because we're always thinking about it, it also happened in the bridal case, who's best and who defines it, and as with the advice of a dresser, it's extremely often a male lawyers who hold on to most of the arguments in this matter, whether they see some way to work things better, so that this area of society as if there were more to the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u72	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'd imagine we'd at least make it. More than simply a law degree of HI or HR or other high schools that provide legal degrees would be required to appoint judges with more experience than simply a legal degree. It requires more knowledge, and especially if we have a group of five people, we must be able to add one or two who do not have a legal degree on the side simply because we also need people who have extensive social experience, we also need people who reflect the diversity we have in our community. I'm not going to go against that class like any other lawyer myself. But I don't think that she's the only one capable of making important decisions like this and that, in fact, I don't think it's too bad for democracy in the country and the national legal protection that those who all the decisions are allowed to make in this country are mainly lawyers from the University of Iceland, whatever the fine class might say. At least, as I suggested, some kind of testimonial conditions could be established for those who were appointed to such important advice and committees and they would reflect the diversity of society, including, of course, have absolute rights. As we know, there's an equal law in this country. It means that we should reflect more fully that women are about Half the population of this country. It's just one of the many views you might look at. I appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u73	A respectable president. The senator turned in his talk that in the government's policy declaration, confidence is to be reinforced in courts. This is one of the things I can take my mind from the government's policy declaration, although not everything I like about it. This has been a ongoing problem in recent years and since collapse. Not only did economic collapse occur but it also broke down trust in various institutions of society. At the Council, we have the trust, which is the same around the skirtnery, that the courts have something a little more. I just want to hear from the senator where she is a legalist, unlike me, and it might be an uphilling of our work in a universal and academic committee when the case comes to her face, whether she sees anything on this matter any different in order to achieve this objective of the government, to strengthen confidence in the courts, better than else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u74	A respectable president. I see a number of trails, including. by increasing the funding to the courts in order to carry out their ongoing education, re-education, abroad taking courses, review how judging is done there, etc. I also see that we go to the GRECO Committee's proposal against corruption on how to improve our judgment. I can see that there will be a clearer law on how judges are made to support their judgments because my experience is that I have, although all too often and too many times, lacked real and understandable support for the courts in Iceland. For the exact laws that are being discussed here, I think it is very important that we re-vise the composition of the members who are designated in the selection committee of judges merely to prevent gangry and friendship development of these important offices in our society. It has also been an important part of strengthening trust. It is not to say that those members of these committees, or those who sit in it, are in some way corrupt or do not want to do well. But the court also includes the appearance and way they view people who look at them from outside and what their true understanding is and what they mean from it. As the situation is today, there is a rather narrow group that has the responsibility of appointing judges. Rather, it is a narrow group that controls the way the courts are controlled. If we are serious about increasing the confidence of the public in the courts, we need to reevaluate how we appoint judges and who we are allowed to play this vital role and what viewpoint we will take when we enter this important office.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u75	V.E.G. President. I am glad that we are now implementing the grand legal rights of the National Court, an appeal court that allows for serious reexamination. However, there is one factor that only disturbs me on the bill, not that I have sleepless nights over it, but I mention that the government of the jury and that has the last word, the final authority over who are appointed judges. The power that the minister should have according to a constitution is taken from him in the law, that is, nothing new, that was in the law, and brought to people who have no authority to do so. Worse yet, the minister has nothing to say about the appointees. Rather, others, who are just as unscrupulous as to deciding who is on the committee. It so happens that I myself sat in this committee without any authority and had the task of hiring it, of course, with any others, who would be judges in this country. I don't think it's wise, no more than any of the committees I've criticized here at the General Assembly in further discussions that have been given authority to the unsolved committees, administration, permanent authority in the management sector, which, of course, the Minister can't be responsible if he has nothing to say, not even those committees. Hence, the constitution of the Constitution that a minister is responsible for all government acts has become a dead end to me. This is not how it will work out. But I'll be there in discussions about this matter--I heard, of course, that the minister had it all figured out and mentioned it, but then some senators start to resort to all the wrongs, as sometimes happens, saying what seems to be the opinion of some, that this committee and then the Ministers are also going to go to equality and order as many judges of each sex. The law, whether we like this committee or not, assumes that each time the most qualified candidate is appointed. It's a posetive law. This does not mean that there must be just as many men as there are judges. Then we need to change the requirement that the fittest, according to the opinion of the Commission, receive the office. This cannot be done either, although we may be able to agree in general that women and men are just as capable. That's not what it's about. It's about the candidates involved. There is an approximate number of court jobs in the province. Both male and female ratios. But when it comes to the Supreme Court, there are other men who are judges. I'm not an old man, but when I was at school, I didn't have many women graduated by law. If we assumed that those who have the greatest experience and meet the requirements set out in the law - there are various laws on the evaluation - perhaps even more men who fulfill them mostly. This may explain that there are now more men in the Supreme Court than women, but it would be normal to assume that, rather than that some men are opposed to women, and they do not want them in the Supreme Court. Why should they want them in the province? That discussion is crazy to me and has nothing to do with equality. They're just confusing the discussion. The problem with the order of this committee is that the legislation was defective. That is why it can occur in a way that leads to one sex. In the law of his day, these people were committed to appointing one person, including one person. The Supreme Court, the Police Department, the World Council and the Court rather than the Council of Doom, I can't even remember if it was. Then this one person cannot be of either sex. Then, of course, this can happen. But it was only a posetive law, and that's how it's gonna be. The law's supposed to change them only, but it's what you're talking about. Also, there was talk that it was important, including... To strengthen the confidence of the public in courts, that any non-laws would now appreciate the qualifications of the judges. What kind of bullshit is that? It's like asking me to evaluate the ability of brain surgeons. Of course, there will be some who know how to evaluate the qualifications of such a committee. True, the General has always chosen someone who is not a lawyer, there has always been, and there was always one who was not a lawyer when I was on the committee. What does it mean to you that he actually ate the food? Of course not, it says itself, though a decent person was and could do many good things and contribute many things, I don't say. But, really, it's about food. What I have found on this committee, however, and I found that even when I sat in it myself, it is that the committee has a fine diet that humans can, of course, interpret as a night's estimate. I believe that when there is no great difference between men, the minister's choice is made. Then there is a greater chance of looking to other viewpoints, whether there is a gender basis or a background basis, etc. The committee, however, did not do much of that, at least in my early years, which I found to be hard to find. Of course, there may be quite a difference between candidates, not because one is stupider than the other, there may be a difference between experience, man has suggested the amount of writing, etc. on legal matters. Sometimes, though, there are no striking differences. He may be able to find, one may be a little more qualified than the other. But the problem around this is that the minister takes all the volume from the minister and says: "This is the best. When I myself have felt that three of the seven were very similar, one might be taken over. That's what I don't want to see, i.e. that a minister wasn't bound by this. I would've liked to see something else on the bill. A minister is responsible for political matters. I think it's quite normal that there's a committee that counts and goes over and draws these factors together, but if a minister makes a very serious decision against the Commission's assessment and the difference is great, he's taking a political risk. Yet, he has some responsibility. The members of the Committee can do just anything and have no responsibility. So I think it's important to change it, whether we do it now or not. I can totally agree that we're having a bit of a time crisis with this. You may need to take a closer look at how it should be done, to complete it now in this way, and to have been involved, and now the bill begins for the council. But in the future, I would like to see it so that those who have no authority on a committee of this sort have not caused themselves but because of the minister's authority, of course, a minister is very much involved in his evaluation. I'd like to see a change in the process, if I didn't just make a few adjustments now in the treatment of the situation, which could happen. But because this case is a little different than others, it's being ordered here 15 people at once, I'm less worried about this now. But for the future, I thought that it would be important to revise and change, and even more, around the guidelines, because there are certain things, experience with government, what men have written, etc., not necessarily whether there is a lot of sense in what men have written or what they have done well in the work, but that they have collected some punch, perhaps because they have not been able to win properly, they have not been able to work properly. I don't like it. I think it should reconsider, too. I believe a committee like this is primarily a minister to assist him in making the evaluation easier, and thus it should be because the sole minister is responsible for all of this in the end. We could have it in the future, in general, that the approval of the council for each court's topic, even if the judges come to a administrative and surveillance committee and account for their views and emphasis, etc. I haven't thought about it yet, but there's a possibility. The important thing is that this power is not entirely at the hands of unsupervised people in town, as I call it. I understood the words of the minister so that this would now be considered more carefully when this is over here regarding the Supreme Court. I trust that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u76	A respectable president. I hear an old story and a new one at what? Senator. It sounds like it's just a matter of time before women grow up in the Supreme Court, and me and the women just wait to grow up and gain favor in the eyes of the selection committee. [[Up front.]] No, no, we're the ones who are set, Brynjar, not the lawyers of the Val Committee we're talking about changing. Hv. A senator pointed out that when we were discussing equal sex ratios of judges, we were calling all things to one degree. I would like to refer to my own speech, as I was referring to an equal gender ratio in the selection committee just for the discussion right now. It doesn't have to be a law to change that I know to mean it's not true. However, it has been said that this has not been respected, i.e. the laws of equality available, and I allowed myself to look up and point in, by permission of the president: U.S. government officials, committees, advisers, and government officials. On committees, councils, and administrations by state and rural society, it should be noted that the proportion of gender is equal and not less than 40% for more than three agents. This also applies to the administrations of public partner and enterprise as state or rural society is the main owner of the Union.◯ Then this goes on, and it's done fine in equality. What I was referring to is the proposed change to a selection committee that will appoint these judges. I ask: Since the law on a selection committee is being changed, why not make sure that equality laws apply to this committee as to the other government committees? I'm sorry. A senator is not important in a court of law, i.e. Judges, reflecting the variety of human life, are there any concerns about gender and even more diversity when it comes to ordering a judge?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u77	V.E.G. President. Of course, I think diversity is important, not just about gender, but about the background, where humans have been before. There's a lot to worry about. On the other hand, because of what happened. A senator read the law, then the regulations on the committee are made out of each of these parties alone. As I said in my speech earlier, this one is of either sex. This, of course, is a special principle on how to appoint this committee. Why it's not changed now. Of course, a senator asking the highest question. Minister on, I can't answer why it's not being changed. It would be more reasonable for a minister to be nominated on the committee, and then, of course, he acts in accordance with genders. But because this is the way it is done, it may be the opposite sex. If the Legal Society now decides to have a wife, and then the Supreme Court will bring two women, or one female, and one male, then the Court will bring one woman and one woman by the council. That's 4:1 women in favor. But this appointment and order procedure must be changed to correct this. There's no use reading from the law. The Supreme Court has himself said, explained why this can be so and does not consider itself bound to the standards of equality mentioned by the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u78	A respectable president. That is natural with orders to this committee and advice, as well as many other committees, and with advice that they are made by many sources. However, since the law embraces both state and rural society, these laws have been read out that they are expected to communicate with one another to ensure that the law is carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u79	All consultations are forbidden in the country, you know that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u80	We're going to consult right here, okay? A senator, so there must be some kind of consultation in the country. Now that I understand best the bases of these committees of the year, it must be possible to predict with any advance on how equality would be done in the future. I see no reason, but to make sure that it is, and I don't always have to hide behind some kind of independent court to respect the law in the country, which is to be careful to share women and men. When it comes to diversity. I just want to point out that it doesn't have to do a work story, but more about what kind of person you are, something you can't handle yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u81	V.E.G. President. It's like this committee now, just want to say right away, that there are three women and two men. So this discussion is somehow very special. I think it is right to ensure that there is a gender ratio equal to that of the sex law on sexual equal rights and status, that there is then another arrangement under this committee's orders. It's the most natural thing to do. It may only be the only way to cope. Of course, the problem that we often face in these matters is that and that is considered most important to you, when you are involved in this type of job where you have important authority, is your ability and this even includes all the opinions of your background or sex. [[The president calls.]] That's a point. Therefore, I say, let's not necessarily have such a fine evaluation to make it more possible for the diversity, whether sex or background.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u82	Mr. President. Here we go. paritaprevir Doming Níelsson's testimony, he gives us yet another of his inspired and dignified talks, such as his hopes and references, and now it is his speech in defense of the fathers'empire in the judiciary, ignoring all criteria for gender to the order of a selection committee that deals with the qualifications of judges at a new level. I'd like an opinion and a real vision. paritaprevir Empresses Níelsson's son on how to solve women in the judiciary and justice system, if not for an equal law in the land, to guide women in the selection committee. I eagerly await hearing about his vision of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u83	V.E.G. President. The problem with this talk is that there is a false claim in it at first. There is no profound limp in the judiciary and the justice system. I'm referring to the police chiefs, the prosecutions, the district courts, to a considerable degree of equality, in some places, I think that if you're going to do that, you're going to have a hard time with men. It's not a deep limp. The only problem we still have is Supreme Court. Perhaps that is the way the law is made, and there is, of course, a requirement for much experience. Those with such experience are now all in their 60's and even up to 60's. This group of lawyers has far fewer women. I think that's the only problem. This problem will probably be corrected over the next ten years or even less. This intolerance is the same intolerance I heard at the time when the first woman ever became a judge of the Supreme Court, 17 hundred and a sauerkraut. [[Up front.]] She was 52 years old. And they said, At last a woman, at last a woman. I've been beating women for years. But she was the fourth woman who received a law test in the country. The first of them became a minister and mayor. One was a senator. Third judge. So the fourth one. But always the same discussion, always been beating up on women in this class. There's never been a beating on women in this class. This has nothing to do with the fathers'empire. I'm even married to a judge. Justice at work and at home. This is the whole family empire.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u84	Mr. President. I'm sorry if it happened. Brises Níelsson feel that he is a victim of the situation or system as a whole. But I missed him not giving a very clear talk about how his vision is about how to eliminate this sex - sex hall in the jurist system. If he feels that the sex palace is in the Supreme Court alone, what is his idea of solving that sex palace? So, should we just wait decades for this to go away? Hv. paritaprevir Beggar Níelsson's son earlier said that the responsibility for the order of a selection committee should be placed only on the right hand of a justice minister. In answer to what was said by a senator. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. How, then, can we have hope of a change if the order of the Valvator merely belongs to a minister of justice, which declares it in a speech chair that it does not feel comfortable to follow the gender criteria of choosing people in the selection committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u85	V.E.G. President. Of course, I completely agree with the highest. Ministers that there should not be any other viewpoints when it comes to the law that we should choose the most qualified one. Then we won't be able to accept any other viewpoints, then we'll just apply them. Then we can debate who's the fittest. But, hey. A senator asked us how to eliminate the sex palace. I think we've cut him off most of our lives, and that's gonna happen on its own in a very short time in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u86	We've been waiting 10 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u87	No, I was saying earlier that women in this class have done very well. It just depends on how many there are. I can't help it if women didn't go to law school until about 1980. It was just not like that No, I say, let's look at our qualifications first because it's such an important power. [[Don't you think there's a chance of making new songs?]] Women are of no less value, and this comes on their own, when their experience has become as intense as that of men with this much experience. Then it happens on its own. It doesn't mean that there are many more men who have been in the past few years or decades and that sex is not equal enough. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But that's changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u88	Hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u89	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is told that there should be a ability to determine the order of events and that it should be fulfilled. But do not ignore the fact that this ability is not a neutral gift of nature. Like the example I mentioned earlier, the Supreme Court had only called men to warn this winter. This is an experience that includes aptitude for a judicial appointment. This will keep the system going if nothing is done. I hope we don't have to wait. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson and his legal associates, who were in his time with the ability to see this adjusted, hope that this will go faster. Another thing that the senator brought in was that no one could have more than the nominee, because they were required to appoint only one member of the committee, man, or woman. Now the lawgiver may be a bit clever. That's why law No. 50/2016 on Country Court at 11. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The nominees shall be nominated both male and female; The minister should then take into account equality and choose the committee permanently. That is why I would like to ask the senator if he could discern why the law on courts No. 15/1998 in this bill, why are you reaching out to other tracks in the bill under consideration here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u90	V.E.G. President. You can't ask me such difficult questions here. I was just talking about what it was like when I was on the committee, and I was critical. This has now been corrected in the law by 2016 in line with this order. However, this is just the case. A senator and I have criticized myself for allowing such matters to happen to anyone here or there for a month or something, but that doesn't tell me much about your qualifications, even though he has met and served as an army. What about e.g. A lawyer who's been a lawyer all his life in great greatness and good? Then he won't go into the box somewhere. Such an audition for me isn't a good audition, I totally agree with it. That's why I've been critical of this committee. There is good reason to criticize her. Sometimes the committee feels that it is this way when it is convenient and sometimes doesn't suitable, and when different things do not work. It's gonna be transparent, right? Works as if it did not have to be. It's because they just appreciate it like this. This, of course, opens up a lot of criticism. For example, I have not observed how they have taken in these defense judges, I have seen that it was mainly the judges who are elected by the judges in each court. But of course, I don't feel that it should later be felt that way in itself. I can totally agree with the criticism in this regard. But I am stressing that we will ensure both the quality of the judges and the variety of others, except for the ability to perform.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u91	A respectable president. Wait a minute. A senator apologized for asking him a difficult question. But I'm glad to see that he finds this strange arrangement to refer to 20 years of age rather than to the laws under consideration. So I assume that members of the Committee will consider whether it is closer to the decision - making committee of judges in the Country Court to be the one mentioned in the National Court. A brief reason for the senator's refusal to reason with the committee was that people who were not legally educated were called upon by the committee. Then I'd like to ask the senator if he's equally confused that a minister who makes the decision is not legal and if he likes it, if the Minister brings this matter to the approval of the Generals, that we who sit here and are not under law should sit by them, or if it is acceptable to have an opinion on who puts this court? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-07-26.u92	V.E.G. President. We are entrusted with the responsibility of these seminars. However, when we are considering skills, it is very important for us, who eventually have to make a decision, that you have been through candidates who can evaluate them. We've been so lucky that we've usually had a lawyer as a justice minister and we've got it now, even a very good lawyer, but I don't think that's a requirement, of course. Besides, I'm not saying there's not supposed to be some unlawed member of the Committee. But in the end it's like that, because we're talking about an important power there with judges, that we're on the committee, at least. In the greater part of it, the person who can measure the difference between people, because we're evaluating the difference between people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the important thing to do.
