ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u1	A respectable president. According to the police and the State Marshal, guests were present at a meeting of the Committee. I think this further shows that it is important to prepare well and meditate deeply on the changes we are going to make in the foreign law. I'm not against it, as it shows in this opinion of the minority that we need to make adjustments and examine our legislation, but we must consider what's actually wrong with it if the senators believe that the government does not comply with the lawgiver's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u2	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer as far as it went. I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator will ever avoid the start of false stories if he needs to make some adjustments for the better in these matters. I have to admit that I find this statement to be amazingly special in a dignified piece of paper like the World Committee's opinion. To suggest that some flannel stories possibly start out that it's hard to stop, it's all in some hot tub-style style, I'll have to let myself say. I don't think it's an honour to have these sentences in a committee party. However, the committee's opinion showed that the change proposed would lead to a considerable increase in the number of applications for international protection. That's what I'm talking about. A senator willing to assert it so that no one will doubt that it is true, that there will be a considerable number of applications if this bill is legal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u3	A respectable president. What we have considered is just the reality of those who are involved in this series of issues. What I think most of all needs to be considered is that this adjustment involves individual parties and is custom for individual children here in the country, not for those who come here tomorrow. [[Up to 80 children.]] They're 80 children, that's right. [[Up front.]] I think it's better to have a clear law of law here rather than a confounding legislation that comes out of some matter and is custom-specific for these children, rather, we should make long-term decisions and think carefully about how we're going to change the alienities for the better and how we're going... [[Up front.]] I'm answering you, what. This is why this sentence in the opinion of a member of the body is thought to be valid. A senator asks about it because this adjustment is so limited but not well thought - out, not also for the children who later arrived or for the children who were sent out in four weeks. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator of history. Hv. A senator said that it was important to agree on the work of the non - Israelite institutions. I want to ask you why. A senator's satisfaction is that these institutions are involved today and that this bill does not make it possible. Also says "wow." A member of the Parliament that the credibility of their institutions is not achieved by the order of the General for the administration of specific matters. I would like to reiterate that here, not by the Generals, but by repeated violations of the institutions, not only of the United Nations Children's Covenant but of the common moral sense. I'd love to hear some thoughts. It's for a senator. Also, with the permission of the president, it says: Such a review cannot be carried out on the basis of individual decisions but can well be considered by broad expert consultations. I ask: Now experts have considered this matter, and it has been assessed that the United Nations Children's Covenant is being violated repeatedly. I'd love to hear a word of it. A senator on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u5	A respectable president. The administration board's decision on these specific matters should be taken as a matter of course. A senator refers to the origin of the alien laws of the land today. She asks, why these kids? And says we're breaking the children's covenant. I'll ask them: Isn't there something wrong with the foreigners? If people believe that the government is breaking laws by decisions, why is it not a matter of variation, a final change in the alien law before the council? I wondered, " Why are we going to a dog like this with some changes for a few children instead of a few children in this way instead of making material changes in the alien law, if people think the government is breaking laws here? ' [[We fought against it...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Sounds to me like we agree on this case, we need to make some changes in these laws. So I ask: Why didn't my part of the Committee do it? Why do you think so? So a senator's excuse, in effect, is it in order to change nothing because everything cannot be changed? Or how does this change things for the worse? Isn't this the very reason to increase confidence in institutions involved in these matters? Finally, I want to confirm that the United Nations Children's Covenant was legalized in 2013, but since then the government has not been carrying out it and has repeatedly broken it. I'd love to hear another thought once again. A senator on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u7	A respectable president. Why didn't the smaller part do it? Because of what I've got in front of me. There has been no time for these legislation to be revised and what needs to be converted into it. It is necessary, as I have said, to look at the alien law and see how to improve the child's application of international protection, but no one has shown me what needs to be changed in the law, including. of the greater part of the General and Education Committee, to avoid such decisions on individual matters. [[Up front.]] I must say that - it was made clear at a hearing this morning that these laws are about unique matters. And so do I. - We must be laws made in the Council to make the same value for all children. [[Up front.]] [[For example, consider: How would you like to do that?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u8	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that we should not be planning laws around specific children. But isn't it true that there was a plot that a bill that would have covered more people, who would have kept track of an equal case that I hear at the moment? A senator will discuss this. I would like to ask, "Why is this change so limited? " Why is there a group we are discussing so limited? That's what I'm talking about. A senator to share with us where these adjustments began, where they ended, and who took a stand for the position we are in today where we are very limited in caring for children?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u9	A respectable president. These changes had not yet been passed through any consultations between members of the council and at work, where we would like to see changes in these laws made in accordance with the manner of new alien laws. Of course, we are not behind this suggestion here, so why. A senator may well explain why he has become so limited now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u10	No, I can't answer that. As I said, I made a suggestion greater than that, which was equal. Where it is. The senator does not seem to know about it then was the bill I proposed to support a large number of members of this hall, I think of all groups except an independent party and an forward party, and that would have been approved and worked with the question of whether we had managed to work with a broader group and worked to the future to carry out this law as expected. I'd like to go to bed. A member of the council was the same committee meeting that I was talking about - it didn't come from me, it came from the committee's mouth, or members of the Committee - that, in fact, the law is clear, but their implementation and their interpretation is what leads to the offense that we speak here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u11	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator says we should have such laws for the future. We should always do so when making legislation, taking care of a whole rather than an extraordinary matter that arises, and we disagree with the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u12	Madam President. Hv. One senator asked why the change was not made materially, but then he answered: "Because there was no time for it. Why, then, were specific changes made? This is because every human life, every child's life, is important. That's why. This is where they spoke. Minister earlier there was no hope for players to understand this matter. And she was probably talking about us senators who are not lawyers or lawyers. Hv. A senator, on the other hand, is a lawyer, so let us make a requirement for it as such. She's probably confusing the terms with the language of someone's face with something. Can she tell me how in the world it really is to take a distinct group out of parentheses without ever biting the one who comes, is logical? How can the following ones be affected and enjoy the laws that are present today that others have found security and security? The only answer to that, huh? A senator is that she will come with us after the election and change the law forever. [[The president calls.]] It's a mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u13	A respectable president. What's meant by this is that there's expected - and expected, I say - more stress on the system. Why is it logical here that a certain 80 children, as shown here in a councilroom, fall under this law rather than by the children to follow? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u14	Let us give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u15	They do not fall under this law, the children who follow it. [[Up to 80 children. I mentioned...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u16	Madam President. The children to follow enjoy exactly the rights they have for the sentence of this law. We take and help someone, but the others will not be affected. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It is, in effect, a shocking vision of human beings speaking in this way. In case of a moment. A senator means something by this, and she adapts the law so that children who follow will enjoy it too. But someone's getting something won't necessarily take it from the others. You see, it is not always that such calamity is at the expense of someone else who is in a bad position. You can also take from those who have money and add it to the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u17	A respectable president. I refuse to be put up here against certain lives, such as what. A senator put it that way. I sure would like to work with you on improving these laws in a material way and in particular the limitations you see in it that you think the government is not following today. [[Up front.]] I will happily cooperate with you in making changes in parapolitic terms, as the laws of foreigners were worked so well. They are based on good goals, especially on child protection. Clearly, we need to take a closer look at what we should do in such a material way. I think it's normal for all children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u18	Madam President. I am glad that these 80 children and their families will be taken to safety. This is certainly a small step. This is just one step toward more humanity in the foreign law we have set for ourselves. There have been no material suggestions, no, possibly not. I would like to suggest that we reexamine the original plans for foreigners, which were available because I was introduced to them. They filled me with joy and hope that we would be able to handle this matter well. But something happened in the meantime. Some humanity leaked out there, in fact, it has to be said. I think it would be nice if we were to return to our opening session with the votes presented to stakeholders, if not in 2014, and look at them only and see where we have been going in this transverse process that will be discussed by the members of the Parliament. There we can no doubt find many fine material changes that somehow did not come to be in the process of adapting to the foreigners we have today. Other than that, I'm not going to extend my case much. I'd like to discuss, for example, the reversibility of laws and the reasons why we don't have law repetitives and how it works. I feel that there are certain misunderstandings in my committee party on this matter about how the prohibition against the recovery of laws works. Retrospective laws must not be placed if they have a negative impact on individual rights. The government must not make repeated decisions if it adversely affects the individual's rights. This is the rule on the ban on retrospective law. That's what she's doing. It is designed to protect the city's rights from the efforts of the authorities. It is designed to make it impossible to say after something is banned by law, and thus a penalties or similar, e.g. to recover from any unpleasant person. That's the rule. I think there's some misunderstanding in my committee party about it when it says, by permission of a president: ▪ Similar matters must be resolved in the same way. - Which is absolutely right. - It can't be considered to be to take action on individual matters in a quick recovery by legislation. Now we have an example that we, in some way, have a larger language, which included a slightly larger group of people in society but still uniquely, that we were rushed by a retrospective legalization. That matter had a negative impact on the rights of the citizens. It was the pension case that led to a mismanagement of the Ministry of Health and that the government had had to pay out 5 billion to those whose rights were due to a legal error. This was no time for the majority of the taking up - to - date laws in a strong hurry to act. Let us just remember that it matters for the purpose of a law to be restored. If set back-up as in this case to improve the rights of the law, then it is all right to restore the law. It's just that kind of thing. I want less of it. A senator of this order and how it works and asks her to honor it at all times, even when it is not convenient.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u19	A respectable president. One objective of foreigners is human kindness. This bill is simply about adding a little more humanity to their implementation. This is because we received news in some cases, yes, certain cases because it is a system that is focused on individuals and their language, where you received nothing more than people in a delicate position, possibly victims of human halls, children fleeing, sick people, would not use the protection required by the humanitarian concept of a foreign law. This is what we did at a council, naturally, by considering the matter further. Further notice that this suspicion was justified at a meeting of the General and Education Committee. The act of the law in the case of the children of the trustees is not good enough. In this regard, UNICEF and the Red Cross have pointed out that it is the task of speaking to those who are unable to speak for themselves, who are not strong enough to speak in the community. That's what we need to listen to. We need to listen to this when employees of UNICEF go to the scene and look at security equipment and retreat almost, so bad are the circumstances, pointing out that there are no minimum conditions for such activities when it comes to family and children. In fact, in the furthest refugee camps that are overcrowded with people and temporarily installed in some Verafeni, there is a tent with toys and light and joy, a babylike area, for refugees'children to be children. This is not an offer. This is not offered to the Foreign Institute because it is as many of us and the whole system suffers from child - children's blindness, such as Bergsteinn Jónsson, secretary - general of UNICEF, who is known as a child - child contracter, who shows that the system is not tailored to children as clients. They don't have money. There's no staff. They lack training, and they don't have room for us to accept refugees who are expected to be the most vulnerable group society can take on their arms. In order for us to accept these children modestly, we need to do so much, much better. This bill does not solve the problem, but it is a step in the right direction. It meets the position of 80 children, who are in various places in the process and who, although only material treatment, guarantee them. This was also shown in the case of the highest. Prime Minister earlier today in 1st. The fact that what we have with the left green has been critical of every time these issues are brought up is just a test. The government that makes good peace is so advanced that Dublin's parishes, people who come in and fall under the Cathedral Rule should only be on an assembly line, most likely to kick it out as soon as possible. If the people who control the government think of children who come in through the Order of Dublin, then they're obviously not making much system around them. They're on their way out of nowhere in a few minutes, so we don't have to do their basic rights like securing the education we often don't, or securing the baby - teeming areas around a reception center, which are often located in an industrial field in Hafnarfnarfjörður where the only game area may be parking outside if there are not too many cars to back there. This is not easy. This is part of a huge problem in our foreign affairs. This is a bill. It's part of what we have to do to deal with it. I have high hopes that the next government will be able to handle these matters properly, so we don't have to be in the race with the time to write bills that cover about 80 children, but we can make human rules that cover all the children who are here to attend to our society. As long as they are under the care of the National Institutes of Iceland and other governments, they will be well cared for and treated as children, as this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u20	Madam President. Here I listened with interest to the talk Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Bearsdóttir who delivered the committee's opinion of my section. I'm not going to hurt you. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, wanting to harm children. I know her well only. However, in the same way, I do not want to be repeatedly repeated that those who claim that this proposal simply run and reassign something which only includes those few families. It wasn't the original scheme. We, even. Councilmen at Refining and Bears the future, gave a bill that dealt with this whole affair. We set up a bill that dealt with child - protection issues that cut down various deadlines, which specifically specified the position of those in a sensitive position. This bill was sent out. They asked for the movers. It was sent to all members of Congress. Everyone could go to that bill. It may be clear to everyone that at least a part of the people involved were willing to take the initiative to handle the situation in general. There were others like that. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson brought a bill that handled some of these matters, so the willingness to handle the situation in general is certainly there. It's just part of the results of the work that then takes place in cutting down. It is difficult to listen to the fact that the original scheme was always taking care of these specific matters, since that was certainly not the case. Of course, we can take that stand, people may come and say that there was no time for the whole matter to be won. All right. Perhaps it is difficult to make such a complete change in foreigners in such a short period of time. However, there is another charge to say that humans originally set out a plan in which they wanted to handle only the specific families. That wasn't the case at all. The will of many of those who claim to do so was just to change things whole - souled. I won't have it repeated over and over again that it was something else. Then it is interesting to listen a little to the criticism presented by those who want these matters to be handled differently. If you do this as in this bill and deal only with a few families, then you are really accused of interrupting government. If it's done in a complete way, it's too expensive. Either. Either we want it all too expensive, or we want it cheap, and we want to handle it in a very limited way. I can see the logic behind both. But I don't see how honest it is to present criticism of both at once. You have to make up your mind or say: " We're happy with the arrangement right now. It may also be possible that this is the case. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I just wanted to get in there. But I hope that although we have not been able to make this small, certainly temporary, temporary, temporary adjustment together, it will still be possible to continue working on the change in foreigners in reconciliation, as was rightly done during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u21	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. Mr President and I have discussed the 63th grade. A conference that explained that in the spring, general political or kitchen talks are usually held. Last year they were September 26th, in strange circumstances like now. When I asked which groups were involved in the decision not to take general political talks on the program, it came to the conclusion that no one had asked for them. No one asked for political talk, it was busy. Sadly, there is no valid reason to hope that no one will say anything to avoid going to the council. I guess it's the job of a respectable president to make sure that the Senate is followed. So I would like to ask what the next steps are on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u22	As we have seen, the president has considered the end of the council agreement. Two groups have declared that they do not agree with that agreement. Nevertheless, it was decided at a meeting of the presidents yesterday to complete the Senate work today. So everyone, as I understood the findings, agreed to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u23	A respectable president. There's a committee view of a change in plans made by the General and Education Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by people from the Ministry of Justice. The bill suggests changes in legal law in terms of honesty. Dangers are suggested to bring an end to the issue of government decision - making. It is also recommended that 2 mg/day be canceled. 238. gr. The law of the law states that if a man who is reconciled has a sentence for some act, after that a fool's return is not permitted to plead any more charges against him, and will not resolve the proof that punishment is so against him. The committee feels that the bill is responding to an old - fashioned system for giving up soaring cards. Instead, it will be measured in appropriate legal requirements in which the criminal record will lead to the loss of certain civil rights, such as votes, office gangs, or certain legal rights. With deportation of 85 stre. Penalties are restricted to governmental rights. Such a withdrawal can also affect the Constitution of employment freedom. If the law is removed and a review of other laws is not made, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights indicates that such a situation is an illegal limit of human rights. In view of this, the Committee suggests the expulsion of the 85th grade. a legal law will set a time limit or a date to January 1, 2019. This allows room for the overall review of the related laws and, in addition, sufficient room for the legislator to review these changes, ensures that cases receive Congress and that the quality of the legislation is ensured. In this work, a collective assessment of the laws that apply to civil rights, such as terms and employment freedom, and the limits of rights, can be made. Assessments are critical. On the one hand, the interests of society and the other, the interests of individuals. Thus there will be no guarantee of an indefinite period of individual rights. Does the committee believe that with this change there are conditions for the violation of rights to be restricted by law, for clear purposes, necessary in democracies and mediocrity? It is important that a full reexamination should be made of the arrangement that includes validation and conditions for unspotted reputations and that such work will be carried out in consultation with other departments and stakeholders. There will be plenty of time for that complex work to be done, both in bill making and in the regular treatment. The committee, however, emphasizes that work should be rushed as soon as possible and that it should be considered if it is possible to divide the bill. In this context, the Committee considers it necessary to review terms and to make needed changes in the law of the elections for the government of 2018. The Brjánsson S., an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Adding to this the new sentence is: B-involved 1. returns to January 1 of 2019. This is why all the members of the General and Education Committee are signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u24	Madam President. I'm not gonna keep this far. I just want to be happy that we've reached the level of our best guard over the civil rights of those of this law. I'd also like to reiterate that it's very important that we immediately consider terms. It is very boring that we have failed to agree on making it possible for us to change the constitution in the next term, of course, to transform into the overall review of this law, where the Constitution, which we all know, will allow for an unscrupulous reputation to be elected to the Council. We, however, are seeing some kind of preliminary sign of it, and we continue to see this archaic concept, an unspotted reputation, which many have opposed in the constitution. In addition, I would like to encourage that laws relating to human rights and connected with a false and undefiled reputation, i.e. The attorneys and accountants also receive a special priority treatment at the next assembly, where I believe it is very important to determine the employment rights of the classes of which this law code covers the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u25	A respectable president. When we attend the General Assembly, we vow to respect the constitution and go to it. Therefore, the key point, as mentioned in the committee's opinion, is that by making the adjustment proposed by the committee to set a time limit or, in fact, give either the council or the Ministry of Justice the opportunity to bring the legal adjustment to the basic rights of people, civil rights that are about to vote and rights, we are fulfilling the vow we made. So I believe that the sentence presented in the committee opinion, a respectable president, is a key figure in this matter. By the change we make here, the Committee considers that there are conditions for rights to be restricted by the Constitution, as this is done by law for a clear purpose, necessary for democracy, and moderated care. I expect the necessary work and the current work done at the Justice Department to be done quickly and carefully. Here, too, the counsel and tip on our priorities, to look to them in terms of success. Then there are other factors that need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u26	Madam President. I think I should just come up here, because I was in the middle of 1st. The person who had the most doubts about the bill for the reasons presented here. I didn't think it right to offer a bill that would interfere with civil rights so that if nothing else did happen, in spite of declarations, that reduced civil rights could become permanent. This is an upper limit of this decline of civil rights, which is 15 months. I'd appreciate it better in itself if that time was 0 months. But I accept the change that has been made, and I agree with the bill in this picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u27	President. Nice senators. Let us not forget that it was secretism and Old Iceland's insurance policy that brought this government to ruin. What caused her to fall crystal into the trial that we now have. What led to this government's downfall, as well as other governments that have been lost, is that Iceland has developed a highly moral and moral way. It is very important to keep that in mind. It is a good thing for those who are now attending a job interview with the nation. We're just starting to see what's underneath the iceberg. It's so depravity. You've been able to sense it in a chamber so many times for all these years I've been here, it's amazing to watch my work. It's just unbelievable, and watching the work around here sucks. That sucks. And it sucks to see that again and again they're taking a dump. All the stuff we have here, these few cases, they're Band-Aids. After all these years we've had to fix things and learn from what was a cause and the consequences of the crash, we do not take the root of the problem. It's just another manifestation that we haven't learned anything. For example, we've had a administrative and monitoring committee where we have a chairman of a committee to monitor the European Commission and the chairman is the member of the Commission. And members of Congress think that's all right. We'll have to do so well, and we'll have to pick ourselves up here in Congress. If we want people to treat us with some respect, we need to show more respect for our rules and actions than we would to allow them to do that way. How long do we have to go over this matter? How long? Two hours today to get the Ministry to review this adjustment, which really is only part of a change of law. So we need to take a dump in a way that allows the law to fail so that it is pressured by the Ministry to complete all the other laws that must be fixed. This is a dirty mix, my friends, my senators. And if you're not making any decision, in your classes, to fix this, this will just go on and on, and the governments will fall and explode and fall and explode, as someone said, if this isn't fixed. We will not correct this by continuing on this journey. I haven't seen anything right now after the government fell, or in this terms period, or during the last season, or during the season, before, which gives me the hope that it will work out. I haven't heard anyone talk, so they're trying to fix it. You're about to have a job interview with the nation. What are you going to promise her? Promises that cannot be carried out? Oh, yeah. I think that the most sincere and honest promise is to make sure that there is a legal obligation at this workplace. We're senators. We have a lot of responsibility. We were chosen by the nation to care for its interests. We were trusted to care for the interests of the common people. We have repeatedly failed that trust. We're good. We're good. You think that's okay? I don't think that's okay. I know that many of you don't think that's okay. But what are you going to do about it? Now you're going to talk to the people and ask them to trust you. How do you - and think well - of it - show and deserve it? It is not enough just to make it to an assembly. What are we doing as senators? Think about it. Why do we want to be senators? Why? And why should we deserve that trust? I don't know how many times I've been giving the exact same speech here. Over and over and over. Let me tell you something, one of the main reasons why I don't make a chance again is that I can't change things in here because there's exactly no one willing to do that. People promise beautiful things, and there's no one willing to do anything. All beautiful things will be promised. Think a little bit of how you're going to live up to it. When groups brought their policy files, their beautiful policy files, which you might almost all choose, how can they be performed if you don't have a majority will? And how can we change this majority? How is that? How will you prove that you can fulfill that promise? You can't. That's not possible. No way. So again, the people will have to listen to all kinds of promises that cannot be fulfilled. Again, the nation will be greatly disappointed. Again, you will continue to accept defective laws. Who is responsible for that and everything that goes wrong in Iceland? Nobody. Not a single man. There is no tradition of having any responsibility in Iceland. No tradition. When are we going to start fixing it? When should it be fixed? I sure hope I regret a few years of real change. I hope that everyone who wants to get people to trust in them to care for their interests, their interests for the whole - that's what often goes forgotten, because here we are, mostly, taking care of our own interests. I hope after a few years, I see real changes. I've met a lot of senators who want to do good, but they're stuck in some weird business. Some of these wood are for tradition. If we want to change, we sometimes need to feel uncomfortable. It's just that way. It's not popular, but we sometimes have to be uncomfortable, too, with the people we're working with, including our fellow members. We're not here as a flock. We seek trust, and we sign the integrity of the constitution. All too often, I've seen people betray that oath and then speak here in a most holy way that the Constitution can't be changed slightly so that the people can participate. I've seen almost every vote on big business that people have betrayed their honesty and feel that they're all right. It's time to change. Me as a voter - because I'm becoming a public voter - I'm going to be very attentive. I'm going to see who's promising something realistic. It's a long time for you to treat the nation with respect to the entire economy and stop pooping at the Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u28	A respectable president. A little more uncomfortable. Please excuse the interruption again. But a respected president said earlier that it was customary to have political discussions in the spring. But exactly a year ago, on September 26, 2016, just general political debates were at this assembly. The situation was relatively similar. Well, it was just a little more of a council. But I'd like to know, even if it's unusual, though it's uncomfortable: If we don't follow the rules, who should? Even if it's uncomfortable. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u29	Madam President. The bill we're discussing here is not a good idea. It's half the time we're talking about it here, we're all horny at half an hour at night after hard days at work. Let us, though, stop for a moment and see at that milestone. This is a small matter, which is just a small patch on a large wound, as it has been pointed out. But this is a drop of the Feminian wave that swept the government from the thrones of power. This is a drop of the wave that led up to the struggle of women in the Red Soccer movement and in the Association for Women's Lists, which were with the first members of Parliament for sexual abuse within the Generals. Because putting a question mark on a child molester could be restored, it was no doubt a matter 30 years ago. Now it is. Today, however, it is not only a matter of legal action that was tailored to those in positions of power, lawyers, senators, and accountants, those in positions of power and money, and this would likely have been a means of civilizing them after some sort of white collar crime or what it was - it was not to be a way back for responsible sex offenders. And, yes, it's just a drop, but it's an important step in the right direction because we've already been advised of this problem. Now he's been dealt with. Now, those of us who are going to be in this post-election hall are going to fix the rules of honesty, fix everything that concerns who we put into positions of responsibility. Not responsible positions of power and money, such as the rules of honesty were worn around, but, for example, the matter of power and money. The people who care for our children, our teachers, people who care for youth, health professionals. This needs to be examined in much more context than the rules of honesty were originally planned. We need to have a very difficult yet important discussion of the type of work that many juvenile molesters have to do with it. It's not about their civil rights. It's about their children's rights. I'm not sad that we're doing little, as I've heard some people talk about in this case, but I'm glad that the community is in place that this step is taken, and it's probably important and necessary that it is taken, that people don't take seriously enough discussions about sexual abuse can take over a government. This is where ministers, who have no agency behind me for this case, because of sexual offenders, violations, and the discussion that took place in summer and Iceland that no longer feels this has happened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u30	A respectable president. It never happened, then, just before the end of the council that there was no solid agreement on an important matter at the General Assembly. I'm glad there's been some solidarity. The General Information and Education Committee on this matter and also on the change the committee suggests on this bill. Last May, I began a reexamination of the inventions. The discussion has been followed. I was present at a Senate hearing that was introduced in the fall a proposal to the General for an overall review of this case. I confess that if it had been done, I would have found it more difficult and more desirable, i.e. Not only this bill as discussed here but also the laws I've tore up the need to go to if this bill is going to work out. This, in view of the conclusion that I found in some cases as to the most suitable way of reviewing this arrangement everything. I have also mentioned that there were other ways to go, but considering this, I concluded that it would be most reasonable to disqualify the authority of law but at the same time to make these necessary changes. Of course, I rejoice that there was a great willingness to handle this point, perhaps taking the necessary first steps this time. I also had doubts about leaving the matter behind only by means of a review or instructions on the continuation of the case. In this respect, I rejoice that this law is added to the article that this law will fail on January 1, 2019, and that nothing else will be done until that time, we face the arrangement that we know today about going astray. So it is important that this work be done. I want it to be presented here that I have requested in the Ministry of Justice that the work that is already started with an review of all the legislation that establishes an unspotted reputation and that nothing is left on that subject, so before a new assembly, I hope there is some work to be built on. Even if this date, January 1, 2019, is, of course, enough time, I encourage it, if it might be my message to a new council, that men may not stay at that date and not waste time. In many ways, the work ahead is not simple. Rather, it calls for great and deep discussions not only the restoration of civil rights but also a vital discussion of what is a general debate about criminalism here on the land and what ways they want to deal with them. This, of course, is closely related, the recovery of civil rights is also linked to criminal policy. It is absurd to assume that unless the lawgiver, the next council, takes a good time with this and that the review will receive proper therapy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u31	Madam President. I just want to see if I understand it correctly, because Bergur Þór, Father Nína, has been very proud all summer, and the people of the country agree, to make the law of honesty and how the Ministry has been doing it, to be changed. At any rate, it seems to me that the Minister's words were made immediately during spring, in May: Yes, I'm going to change this, I'm going to change this. Yet, Ministers do not introduce these ideas until Bergur Þór and the sexually abused victims have lasted two months. I just want to know if all summer the protests of sexually transmitted sexual abuse have had nothing to do with a minister deciding to change the law. It was just that a minister was going to do it himself. Is it nothing to thank the victims of sexual abuse that they had high levels of this matter now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u32	A respectable president. I have every reason to face an assignment at the Ministry of Justice that in the spring months, for me an application was made for me to be fulfilled. In May, I made the decision not to write down, contrary to advice or advice, to advise experts there to refer them to the administrative rights. It's just a fact in this matter. However, in May, I came to that conclusion. that, in the long term, the lawgiver himself would be more effective in this regard, that any change in performance would not depend on a successful minister at any given time. I also saw in my mind that it could not be the role of a minister to evaluate the offenders to get mad or not. In that sense, it was very clear to me that the lawgiver had to come in there. Regarding victims, or perhaps rather, those who have been discussed in the past summer, there is also the possibility that the discussion of this category has led to this, for example. that the bill discussed here is discussed today in the form of it. We made the decision not to wait for a full review but to take the necessary first step just in view of the discussion that has been under this fall. They will not be taken into account by those who have raised the situation of victims and all of these matters that, of course, they have influenced the discussion and progress of this matter during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u33	A respectable president. I'm sorry again. However, after looking for evidence and explaining why the 63rd paragraph is not being followed. The convergence of political discussions during the latter part of the council was expressed to me that the Senate had been examined, and that made a decision. So I would like to know which groups of the Council were involved in that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u34	In this regard, the presidents of all classes have spent a long time in meetings about the end of the council, and no one has requested that such discussions be done. At least the president does not have any memory to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u35	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that if someone in the councilroom felt like words in my first speech, I'd like to apologize, because I was offended once more in connection with the handling of this case and my feelings simply had more value than the words I had written. Now I'm standing here as an executive for the greater part of the General and Education Committee to present a bill to legalize the alien law, No. 80/2016, court treatment time. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative of the Department of Justice, a D.A. Department of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Children's Health, the Red Cross of Iceland, the head of State, and the Southnes police. The bill includes changes in the laws for foreigners in terms of when a child's application for international protection should be taken for material treatment and when it is permitted to provide a child who has applied for international protection and not to have a decision in his case on the basis of a humane view of meeting conditions. I will not go deeper into these preliminary principles, since we have discussed this well and long today, but rather the majority opinion of the committee goes over. The management of the case of the Committee discussed the status of children who are fleeing and who are candidates for international protection and the importance of ensuring their human rights in the treatment of applications in this country. The majority stress that children should not have to wait long for a decision on international protection application, in the uncertainty of the future. A law on foreigners was taken into consideration by the United Nations Children's Covenant and was to ensure that the treatment of children's applications would be in accordance with its requirements. It is important to ensure that the covenant and the rights it is intended to ensure that they will always be proposed for the treatment of children's patent applications. It is important that children and their families not be made to leave the country if they have been here for a long time and adapt to the community. At a meeting of the Committee, it was found that an existing bill could affect the position of 80 children and make it clear that an important change is involved. The Committee discussed text in a paper with the bill in which the Lawgiver's will is intended to always include a material application for international protection if the applicant is in a particularly sensitive position, as shown by Article 6. the law of foreigners. It was noted that there was no clear explanation on this point, and it may be of concern that a new assembly would want previous members of the council without a legal adjustment. The majority point out that as shown in the bill of foreigners, No. 80/2016, to include material treatment applications for international protection if the applicant has such a special relationship with the country that it is near to be protected in the country or if specific reasons recommend a case for the treatment of materials. This may be true in the case of foreigners whose relatives live in Iceland rather than in the land they would be sent back to. This may also be true in other cases where there is a greater association than that of a foreign country, such as because of previous living. Special circumstances suggest that individuals may be in a more sensitive position which will lead to difficulty in accessing countries such as health, age, pregnancy, or discrimination caused by sexual orientation, race or gender, or past experience in individuals, e.g. Victims of human trafficking, violence, and torture There is no doubt about what is meant by a special position. The majority of the articles show that the bill suggests that the changes are only addressed to applications received prior to the implementation of the law and that provisional measures are set aside to assess the impact of the changes. The majority stress that a new council will take into account the changes the bill provides as well as the terms of the law of individuals in a particularly sensitive position. That work must be completed as soon as possible. It is important to consider how to strengthen the position of children as candidates for international protection in this country and that the act of the law will be in accordance with the United Nations Children's Convention. The Brjánsson S., an officer of the Committee, is in agreement with this view. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the committee of Nichole Mosty, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Eygló Harðardóttir, Pawel Bartoszek, and Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir. At the end, I would like to reiterate the majority of the committee that a parapolitic committee will be initiated at a new assembly. In a meeting with a man. The General and Education Committee with Visitors was again required to legalize foreigners, No. 80/2016, if there are repeated interpretation differences, further explanation is needed. It also came to the point where we thought it was important to discuss that key experts in children's affairs need to have a clear approach to the treatment. Child - welfare authorities requested, and this is made clear in their laws on the implementation of these laws. In fact, there was no regard for the case of children exodus on the basis of the Order of Dublin. I think it's a very serious matter. I'm letting this be my last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u36	A respectable president. As expected, I can't come up here to protest. An prominent Nichole Leigh Mosty, where I sign it along with other members of the council, apart from members of the Independence Party. The reason I come up here in a short talk rather than an answer, using this form of meeting, is to reiterate my position. The reason why I agree with this bill and agree with this committee party turns to the importance of always evaluating and caring for the interests of children when it is time for these matters to be taken care of. It may be, and hopefully, in most cases, that it is the child's best interest to be in Iceland, but there may also be cases where it is not. It is vital, then, that we be careful. I believe that, in view of the fact that this is the last day of this very short council and in unusual circumstances, we will also consider and consider the indications made from the smaller parts of the General and Education Committee, which are based on the above. the comments and concerns presented at the meeting by visitors, especially the police. I'd like to agree with that as well. A senator said that the importance of the cooperation between the National Institute of Iceland and the Children's Health will be better, more efficient, and closer to what the General saw when new alien laws were approved. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u37	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for her stand and come back to why we have come to this place and why I gave an emotional talk earlier today. We haven't done enough with children's affairs, but the Lawgiver's will is that we're better off doing it. How to Be a God of Peace, No. 80/2016, went into effect on 1 January 2017. A paper with a bill that became legal notes that there was a special emphasis on the rights of children and their reforms. It is important that the law performs the required procedure. Today, we stand here to discuss two unique cases in which the people say we have violated children. It is important that we correct it. One way is to strengthen the cooperation between the institution who is an expert on children's affairs and those who take sides with the children we discuss here, children seeking international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u38	A respectable president. The senator and I agree on this. I'm going to use the second part of my counterargument to promote a repeated wish I've already made, about the importance of public, State, and the institutions that do this work, to get help from society to their work. There are only three rural communities in this country who take their real burden when it comes to helping the inmates, that is, Reykjavík, Hafnarfjördur, and Smokeytown, which carry the main weight of that burden. I would so much like to see more rural societies step forward, as other societies have done, and offer to their hostilists. I'd also like to use this opportunity to request foster parents for children without escort. They need foster parents. There is a general need for foster parents, even for Icelandic children and future children who have no escort. Together we can do this, and together we can do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u39	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you. Harðardóttir Eygló for sharing a vision like mine. I have discussed these issues with the community's responsibility as a whole in the case of refugees and refugees or those seeking international protection. When I was in Greece for the summer, there was a group, I was there for the SOS-child village which is a free group, NGO. They were mostly in charge of these matters, but in cooperation with the State, which is responsible in the end. If I could just mention England, there was a work out of the ◯Dubs program, to which the work was done. Some suggested that their communities set out what they could and could do to receive more escorted children. Angela Merkel insisted at a council that all communities, or as many as possible, would take their own share of unsupervised children. As a result, I see no reason other than for us to consider how we care for the responsibilities we can place in order to hire and associate refugees with the country if they are protected here, allowing them to get to know something other than Reykjavíkurburg and the lack of housing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u40	A respectable president. Track No. 80/2016, of foreigners, was made up of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and a Tripolitic Committee appointed as Minister of Ministers of the Interior and including was designed to examine the shape of emigrant policies and legislation that would take into account the needs of Icelandic society, along with the assurance of humanitarianness, efficiency, and success of those who are looking here. The committee was led by Feari Proppér, and in addition to him, Sakís Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, Össur Skarphéðinsson, Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Lignaka Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Bjori, the Konráðsdóttir of Congisdótir. The Parliamentary Committee was guided by adding even more Icelandic legislation on foreigners in consultation with the main experts in the field, the university community, and the users of the system. The aim of the Commission's order was to promote cooperation between members of Congress, officials and scholars, thereby promoting responsible steps in a complex class of issues in which policies are being carried out well in the light of cross-cutting research. Many members, institutions, interests, and human rights groups came to prepare the bill. At that time, the United Nations Children's Covenant was specifically viewed as a bill. The minority is particularly concerned with the careful work performed at the last legislature, the wide open consultation, and the parapolitic reconciliation made. The smaller parts stress the need to consider foreigners and see how to improve the management of children's applications for international protection, their rights and their status in this country. It must be ensured that legal procedures are handled carefully when changing such a vast and delicate matter as foreign languages. Similar matters need to be resolved in a similar way. It cannot be considered to be an immediate return to specific matters by law. It is important that foreign - language jobs be reconciled to countries. The credibility of their institutions is not by the order of the General for the administration of specific matters. The management board enforces the laws established by the General Assembly and if its interpretation is not in accordance with the understanding of the Council, the legislation itself must be reconsidered. Such a review cannot be made on the basis of individual decisions but on the basis of a well - thought - out decision by broad expert consultation and long-term interest. The smaller part believes that large prognostics linked to the existing bill remain unscheduled. The changes the bill involves raise questions about equality. Since the bill refers exclusively to applications received prior to its validation, it cannot be concluded that the circumstances covered by the bill cannot be distinguished from those to the ones to follow. The goal of the law is to reach out to the people who are in extreme distress. In this context, a distinct group cannot be taken out of parentheses without the loss of subsequent ones. In the treatment of the case of the Commission, the Dublin Protocol is interpreted by a bed of Icelandic administration, made more available than in our neighboring countries. There are also relatively many applications for international protection, and it was noted that there is a significant increase in the number of applications, as well as that the duration of the treatment is expected to be prolonged due to increased pressures at the Foreign Institute and the Commission of Foreign Affairs. In this context, there has been a marked increase in the number of legal pressures in recent years. In the treatment of this case, there were also serious comments on the messages contained in the bill and on how children and families with children can receive simpler treatments for application for international protection. There have been cases in Iceland linked to the trader of children, and changes are likely to increase the risk of dealing with persons or children. It was then noted that Europol has warned that there are now about 10,000 children of refugees in Europe who are not known where they are. It was noted that although there is a clearly defined retrospective change, it is difficult to overcome a rumor that it is easier to find refuge in this country than before. The memory part stresses the importance of having international protection applications prior to need. The implementation of applications must be based on national legislation. Key elements are that all cases are handled with equality and fairness and in accordance with the commitments of Iceland. Under this committee, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason wrote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-7.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A pilot for the story. As a special amateur for folklore, history, and anything related, for example. I can't let it pass for me to ask you why. The one referred to here only to the section that was covered. It says here, with the permission of a president: It was noted that while there is a clear, retrospective change, it is difficult to grasp the urgency of rumors that it is easier to find refuge in this country than before, and that organized criminal activities involving people do not support its interpretations. How can you tell? One forebearer saw that there are some changes that can be made toward the better in these matters other than the beginning of these alleged fables? I made a much shorter baptism in search of total sleep. This is a big moment. The word fragrant stories has never appeared in a Senate document before, so we're breaking a piece of paper here. How can you tell? A senator realizes that there are some changes that can be made without the beginning of a story, this bizarre idea of fables?
