ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council to be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u2	Mr. President. This bill and these suggestions have been given to us members of the Parliament for a very brief period of time, ending the situation in an unusual way. This inevitably leads to an increase in the chances of errors because members of the council have been unable to consider the suggestions down to details but to be more in the big lines. We in the United States can't support the whole bill, since there are no real measures to counteract the eschatological turmoil that is growing in the community. We will, however, support specific articles, whether they are forms of a greater part or smaller part or a suggestion in the bill itself, but the bill in general we will not be able to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u3	A respectable president. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier is the time we have been given to consider this matter absurdly brief. It is common for the General Assembly to have this problem, but these circumstances cannot be described as ridiculous. We have done our best for Porta Congress to review this case with as much zeal as we have been possible, but like a dog. A senator correctly mentioned earlier means the speed and stress we have had to get used to this week that there is little chance that there will be a mistake, either in the bill itself or in votes. That is the way life is when you don't get time to do things properly. According to this, we are expected to vote on what we have managed to do well and to compare with the direction of the class, and our own opinions, of course. From time to time, we may not be going to vote completely in rhythm because that is the situation and that is the politics, natural, but at least it's right to keep it in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u4	Mr. President. At the same time called for construction of infrastructure, support to children, older people, disability, and medical injections, education systems, law enforcement, the income is being donated to 21.5 billion according to ASI, 18 billion of which are tourists. In the United States, our priorities seem to be staggering. Now it would have been time to spend that money on the worst in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u5	President. Left green supports the bill and the changes shown here. This is an important change in fiscal taxes, and it is taking advantage of the opportunity to pass taxation on those that most earn in the community, taking into account the origin of income. So left greens are naturally closely supplied. There are, however, adjustments made from the smaller section that I will better access as the vote passes pass over, while we support the whole bill and the changes in proposals that came from the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u6	A respectable president. Like others who have entered this chair, except for the oar. paritaprevir Ólafur Gunnarsson, I am very disappointed in the way things have been conducted regarding the basics that have been on the program for the council. This is where we're talking about the income benefit bill, the bandor, and there's almost no time to cross it. However, the bill clearly indicates that at the helm, a government consisting of groups on the far right and on the far left is a government. You see, it's the goddamn thing, the bad language, Mr. President, nothing in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u7	Mr. President. Conditions are unusual, they say. This should not prevent a person from getting any better and trying to follow the current legal framework. We've got a lot of speed here. We do not see that the government is a great match for the memory of the section in the bill here to be paid off. Some things are nice, some very bad things. We don't trust ourselves to support the bill, but I expect we're going to sit next to our final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u8	Mr. President. The bill discussed here is merely a matter of raising taxes and paying taxes. Nowhere are new and positive inducers tried, but instead, negative taxation is enhanced and even increased substantially, as in the case of carbon pay, where the increase is 50%, but only at the beginning, as it is said. Money, which will have no effect on the emissions. However, taxation will increase the household expenses and reduce the proportion of the minimum income. We will vote against all remuneration, but these increases are not in line with the policy established by the government that the government had developed that the government would no longer be responsible for running the insurance. On the contrary, the State tries to restrain inflation and thus enables us to get out of the insurance system. Finally, Mr. President, this bill is an anti-new bill. Anyone who might think of creating something new will especially be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u9	Mr. President. While circumstances are very unusual, as people know, I cannot put my words together, and I want to express a lot of concern that there should be a vote on a very large number of changes in the income system. It's not often that you want to use words like ridiculous, like one of the whales. Public speakers have done, but it is almost as if they have no more time for preparation than they really do. I reiterate that I express a lot of concern over these tactics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u10	Mr. President. We're here to vote to raise the money market from the 125s. K. of 150. K. This means that we're ensuring that while the tax rate goes from 20 to 22%, all the people who own the usual savings will actually pay less money in the coming year than it does in the past. In effect, we are equalizing and reducing the tax burden on ordinary employees and moving them to those with more. I believe that the whole world of Congress is fully behind this adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u11	Mr. President. Here it is assumed that child reforms increase slightly to each family and that they begin to interfere with less than 242 yous. K. Which is far below the minimum wage. One reason for the poor standing of a child with a low income, and the average income is that the child - repair system is weak and virtually handproof in this country, so changes need to be made. We in the United States will submit the modification proposals for the change of criteria, both to the budget and to the 3rd. This bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u12	President. The more important changes presented here will benefit more than any other in terms of earnings and the top tenths according to a memo. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs came through and therefore I vote against this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u13	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion to increase property targets for growth. The fact is that because of the decline in interest of interest improvements, the 2008 name value has fallen substantially, and today the level of earners is out of the system's attributed growth reform system. That's not right. That's not what goes by it. A senator, that these are the main sources of higher income for the benefit of the workers, for there the levels of income are working in this system. The problem is that for people in second and third income level, for adults, there is a cut off of 20% of property share in moderate housing of 35,445 million. K. Possession. It is quite clear that this growth reform system is being broken down within, deliberately, by keeping these property limits down at the same time that property prices have doubled in the country. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u14	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, I think the proposal will benefit mainly from the increase in income. I want to make you happy, though. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and the entire body of Congress, with yesterday's discussion of housing matters, specifically stated that the government was planning to revise the improving system and, in fact, to reexamine the improvement system. The remunerations with the aim of using them primarily to benefit from income - rich groups of society and young people. That work will start. I expect that they will follow the suggestions for change, including on these ones. That's why I say no to this proposal here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u15	Mr. President. A strong child - reform system is needed in order to counteract social inexorably, and it requires a powerful housing reform system. This government has neither. What needs to be done, like driving. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said earlier, it is raising the limits of property in the growth system if we are not to let it go gradually, as it seems to be the highest government. I'm gonna do it. Real estate prices have increased greatly, as well as real - estate assessments in relation to growth reforms. This change is a small step. I would have chosen a larger step, but this change is a good step in the right direction, and it will benefit from those with low income and medium income. It's the wrong kind of assessment that's come from the Generals, that it's for the best of the earnings. [[The president calls.]] There is also an increase in weight on the home of those with a low income, and the average income has increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u16	So that's about the liquor. When we talked over and over in the camp -- which we don't do now, for some reason, the Swiss's bill isn't about camping now -- I learned one thing from the U.S.A.: Those who pay 26% of the liquor money are two point people in the country, or those who buy alcohol. This is so clear. They're taxing the people who are most ill in society. That's what the liquor does. They're the most sickest people in the world. These are probably the poorest people. In fact, it is a tax for poor and sick people. So I don't support raising the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u17	A respectable president. This is a restricted warrant so that a government can make a special charge from a liquor charge. We support that change, and it's strange that it was in the law at first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u18	A respectable president. Here we are agreeing to extend the invitations to one of the country's basic activities that directly counter the targets of transport energy exchange, which work to reduce transport emissions. That corresponds to approximately $1,500 million. K. The recent loss of income for a government fund, which is comparable to the increase in the interest criteria of interest interest rates recently set down here, would have cost a wealth of money. I say no. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[You say yes.]] The Senator says yes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u19	President. Here, in fact, it's like a dog. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, said, was to decide to eliminate this exception but in steps. This is in order to soften the impact on the job, and it is being met with the comments that have shown that consultations due to these changes have not been satisfactory. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u20	This is about the President's management of the meeting. I just wanted to know from the President that he was starting a new vote or at a vote on a new thing, still backs up. So far, I've been told this must not be done. If this is possible, it's good to have confirmation of it, and then it's just an example, we know about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u21	It has been customary to grant requests to repeat a vote if the outcome has not been declared and the next vote has not begun. The president tries to be flexible in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u22	A respectable president. Each year, desperate individuals are concerned about whether the provisional budget will be extended or not. I hear them worry every year. This is a suggestion to shift it from temporary law to the law itself and to cancel the provisional principle to the 3rd sector of the same change proposal. There is no material change, there is no difference between the financial expenses, it is simply about not being a cripple every year. On the other hand, if the 1st number is dropped, I'll retract the 3rd argument of the conversion proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u23	A respectable president. The new proposals under 29. failure to eliminate total loss of employment income and raise... [[Up front.]] Yeah, but it's called raising the payoff market on income like a pension. I believe that priorities require the government's resources in such a way that it is primarily useful to the underpayers. I believe that it has to be looked forward to how to face the low-payers with low pensions and not to anoint them over the entire group; to make use of the public tax money and the priorities of the government in behalf of those who have had low pensions and low pensions but not to leave it to those with high income. We need to expand it in this way to benefit from low - income groups, not every group of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u24	A respectable president. I'm glad to see so many people in a vote. It's about delinquency of the pension of social security because of employment. It is, in fact, the same thing as the good bill of the Flork people, that we will discuss even more if this case is canceled. The discussion was here on the subject itself, at least on my part, and I don't think I'll be able to offer all the evidence for this fine matter in the remaining 30 seconds. But I'm glad that the group of the people put in a bill about the same change so that we can continue to discuss it. I am convinced that this proposal will be given sufficient discussions sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u25	Mr. President. This proposal complies with the Central Party's policy that businesses do not reduce pension income, which is an encouraging procedure, an action preventing social isolation, a procedure that enables the elderly to earn income that will help them gain better quality of life and better health. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u26	Mr. President. This proposal is in accordance with Central Party's policy, it is also a proposal of justice and an encouraging proposal, a desirable proposal in every way. It's wrong, it's very damaging to the general interest of society that the state is driving them out of a job market that might think to work longer, the people with the most experience and knowledge. The government is going to cancel the potentially valuable creations that could take place there and at the same time restrict the quality of life of the concerned. There is little to say about the highest income groups in the senior population because, in the majority of cases, they are groups with sufficient money money money money to limit their pay from the state. This action is most important to those who are even forced to work longer because they have not collected enough pension money or, of course, simply want to work longer and make use of their experience and knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u27	A respectable president. Honor all of them. In spite of the suggestion that the decrease has been canceled, this article discusses raising the social security cut-off point of the pension to the 100 thousand dollars, a positive step. But it's less than it was. It was 109 thousand, and it had lasted a long time. We should do better. I vote by this, though, it's considerably higher than the amount of $25,000 available. But as I told you earlier, I rejoice in the forward bill of the Shockers on the same subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u28	V.E.G. President. I vote by this close, close - knit expansion of the government, which is not in accordance with its highest promise. Prime Minister gave a large meeting in a high school movie in the middle of an election. But I agree with the last speaker, of course, it's better for older people to be able to earn a hundred thousand dollars. I've told you before, I don't think people are getting out of jails for that $100 call and moving into the job market. Still, it is better than nothing, so it is proper to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u29	President. I'm glad we're here raising the elderly's vacation market for employment income to 100 of yours. K. but it's amazing that the senators aren't willing to agree that the poor will get their perks legalized instead of temporarily holding it, what, 2007? For ten years, disability has been faced with the uncertainty of not knowing whether their income will rise. I think it's really weird. This has been done for ten years. Why can't we validate this? It was a very simple adjustment proposal that would have cost nothing only the safety of microenergy pensioners with this increase. I just don't understand. I wanted to share it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u30	A respectable president. I think this is a positive suggestion, that a vacation target is up to 100 you. K. Business income. I believe, though, that it is possible to go further and that all of this needs to be taken into account, the income as old - age pensioners and the desperate have the potential, whether from their pensions, income income, or employment income. The balance of these revenues must be observed there. Not all can go to the job market, especially low-payers, who have worked hard all their time. Hence, equal rights and the use of government support are needed so that it will bring them the highest income and priorities in behalf of the low income. That's why I support this suggestion, but I think the roof could be higher and that it should be viewed but in the context I've talked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u31	A respectable president. The Pirata House doesn't approve common votes. I vote against this because I'm against nose tax. I'm not against State Radio, but I'm against this tax form and I want the State Radio financed by other means and morally tax returns. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u32	A respectable president. We think it's unnecessary, we should go all the way. It's not much more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u33	A respectable president. I think I support my adjustment. This is an additional increase in carbon tax beyond the government's plans, but it is consistent with the increases presented in the financial bill submitted in the late autumn. Clearly, we need more ambition if we are going to be successful in climate matters. These increases are very consistent with the policies of one of the constitutions of the last council. I think it is very important to take this step if we are to avoid the possible curses that can come from buying climate clearances if we fail to reach the targets we have set before 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u34	Mr. President. There are many ways of success in climate. There is no one way. This suggests that, as a first step, carbon charge will rise by 50%, and further urgent increases in climate change will await, which is far removed. There is also an analysis of the impact of community - based carbon rates. This is in line with responsible governance and reliable policy in climate and environment. That's why I think it's right that this adjustment proposal will not be carried out, but it'll be agreed on as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u35	Mr. President. Does it occur that the government, the administrative sector here, will reduce the driving rate by a few more dollars? People will continue, as if for other reasons, when the rise in gas rises continues to continue to travel on their cars. The only effect of this is that they increase household expenses and raise their loans, raise financial loans. Of course, this will increase the weight of the most lucrative households, for it is not a tax that takes into account income; it will have to be a way to go whether they are earners or low; and this will increase the weight of those who need to work or live on a long journey; thus, it will add more to the national and national areas than in the capital area. So this will bring nothing other than, like, so many other items in this bill, an increase in appeals for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u36	Mr. President. You are beginning to suspect that the last government has been far more ambitious in climate than the one present, despite the fact that such things are spoken of in the government covenant. How sad that changes have been proposed! paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson has not been approved. Besides, 2 billion of the government funds are being donated, which would have gone the long way to cover what is missing at the Akureyri Hospital and the Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u37	Mr. President. Here we are again on the road to repair the faults of foreigners. I simply wanted to use this opportunity to encourage a body of Congress to start working on a review of the alien law so that we can create a more humanable environment than we do right now. However, the change we are working through the council now benefits us, and we support her wholeheartedly. I thank you for your cooperation in the Committee on the resolution of this matter, but I would like to encourage everyone to keep a close eye on the fact that we continue in the right direction and try to ensure a living permit regardless of where it comes from, and even balance students' housing, i.e. The patents of the children against a school permit, and the discriminating of whether they are a trade student or a doctor, that they get a living permit here for their family.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u38	Mr. President. This is where we vote on the extension of temporary regulations for the NPA. As indicated in a committee list. The head of health committees are intervening in this matter, agreeing to turn back the matter from completing the legal procedure required for the case and celebrates that this year, despite the fact that the law has not yet been completed, has not yet been completed, added to this category, and ensures that financial support for more contracts is available in the year. This is very important and happy, and I look forward to the vote later at this council when we finally settle that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u39	President. I agree with what. A senator who spoke before me. I'd like to be happy to know that the extra 70 million we've asked of the Committee to enter this category of agreements in order to further the agreements seem to have arrived. That's great. I can't wait to handle the situation and finish these two big bills next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u40	A respectable president. I agree with someone else. Councilmen, it is a joy to see that the number of contracts has increased even more. However, I give special attention to what was a complete agreement. The welfare committee, that a respirator group will have a priority and that they will be taken into account when the extra reserve comes so that user contracts can be dealt with immediately during the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u41	A respectable president. Like other members of Congress, I rejoice that this has come and is well pleased with the welfare committee. Thanks, too, to the welfare committee in this matter, I hope to have a good cooperation with the committee in the two major matters of the committee. Moreover, like other changes in the budget, I rejoice over a larger portion of the budget where the figure is expected to increase by about 70 million. K. in this series of discussions. That was exactly what happened in a committee study. A welfare committee, and I thank you for that. Furthermore, I thank the Committee's good cooperation and hope to continue my cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u42	Before discussing the 8th session, the president wants to state that an agreement has been made on the 8th part of the program that the prehistorics and spokesmen have 30 minutes in advance, while other members of Congress have ten minutes. Residents will be permitted and respond specifically after the speaker's presentation of a larger section of the budget committee, so that all governmental groups that wish to be fully delivered twice as many as two minutes' answers. Thereafter, the usual counter-reguage is valid. It is expected that the discussion will be over tonight or under the night and that a vote will be made directly thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u43	V.E.G. President. We're starting 2nd. the budget for 2018, and I recommend more of this committee. The budget board. We know the spirit. In the second year, this discussion can be said to be given under special circumstances and in a short period of time, which is, of course, pathetic. It is somewhat contradictory to say, at the same time, that it is not in the spirit of public financial laws that went into effect on January 1, 2016, these laws prove true because there are no support in the discussions over the budget in the spring 2017. While joint support is at the highest level. Governments are not now organized, but when this financial plan was discussed, the budget is now being benefited by the careful discussion of public financial matters that was then under way. The available financial bill primarily highlights health, education, and transportation. Of course, it is far different from the short since the transitional period that has been able to shape a budget that frames in one year the projects proclaimed in the government covenant on government cooperation and the expansion of the Council. Achieving progress in various areas of society and financing on basic projects are natural significant, and it can be said that almost a decade of renewal and restoration on infrastructure and important services to the population disappeared. At the same time, it is just as important to protect the economic success achieved in the recent years. In spite of the priorities of increased spending to these classes, it is safe to bring positive results here with emphasis on maintaining, maintaining economic stability, paying down debt, and lowering the interest of state funds. It is now only a smooth week past the 1st. The bill. At that time, the committee has discussed the bill and had a meeting with a number of guests, and it would especially like to thank the visitors for responding to the invitations with a lot of shame to follow their comments on the bill. The committee was contacted by representatives of all councils responsible for the individual topic areas and the State's seminaries and the number of representatives, i.e. ... 26appreciatives. When I say this, a respectable president, I feel that I have every reason to commend all of them. A legal committee for a particularly good worker and a coercion to make a regular program work. The overall effects of the changes in the majority of the items proposed are listed in the first table of this committee, on page 24. 2, for example, where there are changes in the equation and growth equations and the effects of change in total balance. It shows that the remainder of total equations declines by 2,008.6 billion. K. Which is slightly smaller left than put in the bill. The economic leaders of the bill consider Iceland's latest national interest project since November, which has a significant impact on the income of the state's funds to increase the predicted increase. Overall, economic prospects are very practical. Economic growth rate in 2016 was 7.4%, but this year's revised schedule is 4.9%, a 0.6 percentage point higher than expected in February. However, economic forecasts indicate a decrease in economic growth in future losses, and this should be kept in mind. We have been blessed with prices, and in terms of inflation has been subject to the four - year goals of the Federal Bank. In the context of prices, the hold on government matters is of particular importance. The budget paid for 2017 was substantially increased from the previous year, and the bill is now being added to its real value. Estimated capital expenditures 2017 to bill 2018 increase by 66 billion, which is similar to the sum of the previous year. Table on page 24. 141 of the bill shows the cost change between years, which is useful for the year. Councilmen looking at, disassembled at 34 languages and showing a practical change from 2017 funds. That's where even the two of them come from. To the end that the wealthiest cause has been growing and penalties, reflecting what we have been dealing with in terms of money, a heavy weight of interest, which is, of course, culpable, but now there will be a change. What you can see is that we are being successful in achieving the growth rate, but at the same time, some favorable expenses are increasing in hospital service. They increase by more than 7.2% in absolute value. However, it should be noted that the largest increase in medicine and medical products is 35%, and is explained by the fact that both the prices and the volume of pharmaceuticals are far beyond the scope of the 2017 budget and are responding in this way. During their review of the bill, the Commission received insight into the efforts of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs for improving government affairs, especially government purchases. The majority of the requisitions of the importance of management and monitoring in terms of government reform, the implementation of finance in the state and the use of funds, the use of financial resources, and the use of it. At any given time, the minister needs to review the activities of his subjects and reason on how to do better. The majority makes proposals for increased budgets in several issues of the Ministry of Health in addition to significant increases found in the bill itself. The proposals are not important in relation to the magnitude of the case, but they should be borne in mind that the bill suggests a total of 16.3 billion dollars for hospital and medical support as well as medicine. an absolute value between years. The bill is in accordance with the highest plan. Governments on structure in these groups. In addition, more than 400 million is suggested. K. increased health expenditures in the country, as well as 50 billion. K. Budgets at the Akureyri Hospital, as shown in a special legalized proposal that comes with a commission. The Ministry of Health is expected to make a closer contribution in line with health policy that will appear in the next financial programme and introduce it to both management and financial committees. Special attention should be given to mental health issues, but I would like to mention that the representatives of all health centers in the country - outside the West, which could not be managed, were not flown - came before the committee, and were very well aware of their situation. So I'm going to let you know that we are happy to be able to contribute to the health institutions of the country. The activities of nursing homes and other aging services are already an important component of health and social services in this country and, in view of national dating, there can be no doubt that these activities will greatly increase in the coming years and decades. A major problem in nursing homes is seen in the reference from the European Union, U.S.A., that rural society claims to pay up to 1 billion dollars. ... withtheunemployed business. A report published in 2014 by the Council's Reconservation of the Council and by the Council of Parliament was published, including 2014. that pay costs averaged 76% of their management fees. The organization of these institutions to appear before the committee confirmed this information. It is essential to consider these issues and other matters related to the management of a nursing home when decisions are made about the construction and operation planned in a government contract. A greater proportion of the budget committees encourage consultation with rural organisations, business organisations in welfare services and governments for a targeted work on sustainable and improved business. The bill suggests an increase in income markets for professional pensioners at the beginning of 2018 a hundred thousand dollars. per month. A tax sheet for the dentists of the elderly and microenergy donor will also be updated from the center of the next year to reduce the cost of these groups. In the changing of the majority of the budget committees, increasing funding will be used to aid in the implementation of greater social security benefits to the low-cost microsurgents who keep their homes alone. In the motion of a budgetary bill, an increase in the stratosphere of 6,840k is expected. to make 300,000 bucks. increase from January 1, 2018 An adjustment to a greater portion of the budget involves increasing home satisfaction especially in excess of the general increase in this amount. This is a way of reducing a so - called crown to a dollar's degree, and it is more appropriate to meet the economic criticism of the expansion of the increase to 300,000 dollars. In addition, it has the effect that the disability-employers who live alone and meet the requirements for domestic replacement will receive higher tax pay from social security, thus increasing the proportion of pensioners who gain the increase. The government covenant points to the highest. The government is going to negotiate with the head of micro-energy transplanters for changes in the improving system. The purpose is to try to create the system of peace and simplicity as the microchip is assured forwarding process and correcting its terms. For those who may be responsible, it is important that governments walk ahead with good example and secure part - time contributions from the government for people with limited ability, while it is also important that the job life be active in that work. These cases and positions were handled well by the representatives of the Microcracy League. I reiterate here to plan as well as to the highest. Government and supreme. Social Affairs ministers have announced a follow-up. In the case of disabled persons, it is guaranteed that those who have enjoyed the so - called MPA services will continue to enjoy it in 2018 and follow funding to increase contracts. This is related to a case that we agreed on the extension of the provisional principle and the increase in these contracts into the next year. It's 70 million in here. K. Change of bill proposal, of which 30 billion. K. Visit those who need 24 hours of mechanical ventilation. However, it is known that for the future there will be a growing number of treaties, as indicated in a committee view. The welfare committee on the subject I mentioned. Further application will be followed by the treatment of a welfare committee with prime reports on local social services and the affairs of disabled persons who have a great need for discussion. Of the changes made by more than one body of budgetary committees, a number of suggestions are considered to be cultural. While university contributions are mainly developed as a result of changes in the number of students, there is also additional contributions from studies and studies in college. The elevations are a step toward the goal of a government contract. Governments making contributions to the university will reach the average OECD level within a few years. I reiterate here, a respected president, that in the review of the Committee it was clear that there should not be an independent goal to increase expenses just to achieve such goals but that it must have a purpose. We think that if I can put it that way, we will follow it very closely after these criteria get involved in improved school activities. However, the bill has several growths in transport. The majority also make suggestions for changing the forward bill and suggest an increase that is further explained in the proposal itself. Much of the committee's emphasis is on traffic safety and public transportation. A contract on public transport with a national part of the world has been in effect for some time. The comments made by a fellow member on the project indicate that it is time to reevaluate and reevaluate that arrangement. The majority suggest that the damage offered in the budget of donations to the eight living rooms around the country will be removed. The parks perform a number of important tasks, and these positions are addressed in the modified format of the majority of them. The majority of the objects point to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister that we review agreements for the work of a natural room will be considered and funded. The representatives also appeared before the committee and reviewed their operations and positions. Sadly, since the beginning of 2015, the big changes that were then being made to the number of county reforms and their activities have not been managed. Reroutes the greater part that challenge to the highest. Governments that it is working to strengthen their offices and to ensure that they can carry out their duties as they should. A rich deal of emphasis is placed on the growth of the Generals, and the bill shows the first step in that subject. It is suggested that contributions due to the expert assistance of members of the council be added. Also, the Office of the Generals will be strengthened in this regard, including to ensure that the Council has professional knowledge to match the Ministry as well as to ensure professional support for the work of the Committee, Committee and Conferences. Is this fully in harmony with the plans made in the government covenant? The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. In addition, a greater proportion of these proposals for additional contributions to the Office of Generals and Generals, along with this. The majority of this gives special attention to some of the issues presented in the bill, although suggestions for change are not made for 2nd. The bill. I'd like to mention child reforms and coverage of financial reserves, where the majority of the shares believe that a clear policy must be set for the construction of a legal reserve. I admit that this was an excellent talk about a reserve in the laws on government finance and purpose, and their use in the discussion on a budget bill. The majority of the shares suggest that a team be appointed on sales and rented market policies. In this case, housing issues have been discussed and discussed by the Committee. What makes the concept of well - being possible is among the things that make it possible. The most part encourages the highest. A government to comply with its plans in a government contract and to promote housing improvements, particularly supporting support systems and lowering the threshold of young people and the income of the retail market. This is one of these matters that we can say has not been won at this brief period of time. Long-term travel management programmes need to be established in cooperation with a strategist. Therefore, the highest level has been linked. The government preached in most areas, encouraging the greater part. A government to live by that practice. The other changes the greater part suggests on the remuneration side are found in a special package of explanations, which I further refer to. Thanks for everything. The budget for much and good cooperation, as well as for writers and staff of the Committee. I think I may quite allow myself to say that the program is more dense than I have had to get used to the short time I've spent at the General Assembly, and there's an incredibly good worker on the Committee under conditions. For that, I'd like to thank you in particular. I suggest that the bill be agreed with the proposed changes to the greater part and then resume the committee by Section 3. ... aftera vote. Under the committee, this work was left in the wake. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u44	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I would also like to thank you very much for your cooperation within the committee. Given circumstances that were difficult and short of time, I agree that cooperation within the committee was relatively good. On the other hand, I have to state a substantial disappointment with the necessary adjustments made by more of the legal committee. Like what? A senator saw and listened like me, almost all the stakeholders who visited the Committee negative about the budget bill. This is especially true of those who work within the medical system. We saw that the presidents of the Land Hospital were very unhappy with this bill, health institutions in the country as well, and nurses'officials were directly talking about a shrink from year to year. Similarly, the comments of the Akureyri Hospital show deep concern that this bill was not enough. Now it turns out that more of the legal committee is going to make up only 450 million. K. We in health care, in the big thing the nation has been calling after we put more money in. 450 million. K. is 0.05% of your income. We do not meet the needs of the health system. The land hospital gets an 0K. ... froma majorityofthecommittee. In the country, only half of what they called are left to keep seawater in order to maintain their functioning. The sickhouse in Akureyri gets 50 million. K. ... butcalledafter400M. K. The nurses get nothing from a major body of legal committees. That's why I'm asking. Council member: Why is it that more of the legal committees do not listen to key interest stakes in the health issue? The Chairman's party was calling and saying that they would represent a major offense in this matter, but I just don't see this big offense, either in the original bill or in the change of more part of the legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and the answer. Hv. A senator comes in here on the health system. We've been adding a considerable amount of expenses to this category, not just in this bill even though it's definitely being done, but in recent years we've been adding. This is one of the systems in which we left a lot behind in the wake of the economic collapse. There is certainly reason to build this important system that we can call social infrastructure. On page 18. 4 of the National Institutes of Health are getting along well with the increase in expenses available to the health - care institutions in the country. We add at the same time. The largest increase in health care at this bill is to the hospital. Indeed, they are being added to the real value. The governor presented the committee, and it was a very good conversation. I think I can absolutely say that we're reaching the country for the fact that they can do their business at zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u46	A respectable president. We haven't even reached the land hospital's ability to run a business, to make seawater. Much of the budget isn't even going to be wanted, let alone that there's an injection at the Land Hospital. I am told that Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's financial bill is only 2% change in the financial bill of an advanced government. The secret proposals for more part of the budget are 0.2%, so instead of a 2% version of the left green and forwarding bill is 2.2%. It's more and less the same bill we got information about at the Committee. In fact, a representative of the Corporate Community said that this budget bill is ◯pyr/paste in the bill, which, especially, left greens were extremely critical of the success of elections, but the forward group also did. It doesn't mean in my opinion to come here, each member of the board after his own, and say, "Yes, we'd like to do more. - Then I just wish we'd do more. For example, if we had raised our carbon back, that would cost 2 billion dollars. If we had not gone on the road that a left - green and forwarding team would support, if we had only raised our existing carbon costs and placed them 2 billion in the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, we would have come a long way to the extent they wanted. The way is indeed there, but what is lacking is the political will. That's a criticism, and I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, before answering. In many ways, I can agree with that. A senator came in. But I don't completely agree with it. A senator because I am a great sponsor. On the contrary, governments believe that, in a very short time, the highest power is at hand. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was able to insert the tone into the plans of the government covenant. There is a significant increase in the health system, an increase in education. The university receives additional contributions, the colleges receive additional contributions. There is a number of other assignments that would have been all the more reason for speaking. I also mention transport, although there is a relative decrease in the amount of growth there. Since then, we have tried to add here and there. I can mention that we do well in developing a greater part of the Committee, we add to the medical system, because we were discussing it; for health institutions in the country; for transport, I can name the Gravitation Road, an urgent project; environmental environment, national park; for a number of partners in which there is a very good operation. I talked to the plant earlier. Hence, there are things that we are doing in a very short time that is positive and gives reasons for greater optimism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u48	A respectable president. It was said that a detailed discussion had taken place on a financial agenda, which is why it would have saved a little in the discussion of the budget. But this is not true. We could not have had a detailed discussion on the financial agenda because the policies there were very poor. The whole discussion was, in effect, about the missing information that we could not compare with the budget as we should have done. We should be able to examine the policies adopted in the budget and compare how this works with the budget. But we do have nothing in our hands. We don't know exactly where we are. Am I correct in understanding that in the making of more part, there are 700 million. K. Are they placed in medical institutions in the country, clinics, and hospital in Akureyri? I'm going to ask myself, " Am I right in the light of what was said on the committee yesterday, that somehow it is divided between them? ' The minister was going to come and learn more about the exchange, as I understand, early next year. A local hospital official also explained how he would be expelled in memory, the need for building facilities that were being torn down because of molds, and the lack of equipment. But it's not here yet. In fact, a land - wide change in the land of a land - related hospital of the land is made up of a land - wide hospital of the land and, in effect, a health - care center for all of us. Also, I would like to learn about what was being done on the committee yesterday, a discussion that we would get the Ministry back at the start of the next year to learn more about their policy in the budget because it was not now possible to do so. We only got half an hour to cover our welfare issues. The political directors also received half an hour to offer their suggestions, which were much smaller.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the questions. At the beginning of my talk, I learned that the legislation on public finance is and that became law on January 1, 2016, has proved its value to some extent where frequent elections have somehow violated the process that we truly want to do. The budget and the entire Parliament, which is the financial issue in this context, plan the budget and budget of the next year. That's where we want to go. Hv. A senator can weigh the depth of the discussion of a financial plan far better than the one here that says I wasn't at the General Meeting when that discussion was conducted. However, I now went to the legal structure rather than evaluate how the discussion was or what depth it had. Yes, we decided to prioritize the funds of the Committee. Since we're talking about government laws, we have baseline financial standards and financial regulations in Article 7. and need to keep it in mind. We need to monitor where the funds are going. We decided to set priorities here, where most of the funds in the bill go to the Land Hospital and improve in the country. Then I'd like to return to the Committee's work and welcome the visitors from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u50	A respectable president. I'll agree that in a sense the government law has proved its value because of circumstances, mainly to the point that all their defects have been revealed and that there has not been a misbehaving process, as we have been in terms of elections and so on. But they have proved their value in such a way that it seems that everyone in the discussion would be very familiar with the information about how this should be, for example. In connection with the budget, what we do wrong there because of circumstances. I can't wait to go on a normal budget where you can trace the way policy enters the budget. One point I felt was missing, and it is the Council policy, how it fits into the financial program. That is where the government will enter its policies, but the General will have some sort of approach or adjustment potential for the implementation of its policy. I'm not sure that there's any changes in the proposals that walk there. It would be interesting to hear opinions. As a result, the chairman of the budget board continues to take the next financial programme, which naturally affects the budget. At the beginning of the next year, I remind them of the presentation of halls for the next year, to be sure, and the guests who regularly appear to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u51	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. He told them that last year's visitors were in trouble. I can agree with that, especially when we're going over the topic areas with the plot. I really take this as an incentive to continue. Of course, the monitoring factor is very rich in the entire financial process. It's kind of a happy subject, I'd like to say, to deal with it and get started with the financial policy process. Yeah, let's just figure it out. I take it as an encouragement from reason. A senator getting the ministry back to us and getting more depth into the topic areas and the topic groups. It will also be exciting to follow the ideas of reforms in order to improve the effectiveness and use of funds. Of course, the committee should spend a lot of time on it, but only to study one financial bill at some point, to take it in that context. I have to admit that I didn't quite get the idea with the council policy and the speculations, but we can take that up at any time. A senator and me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u52	At a meeting of the European Parliament for December 22, Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was elected vice president of the department.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u53	A respectable president. I recommend members of Committee 1 less part of the budget and its proposals for smaller parts on panels. 97. As mentioned here, representatives of the United Nations are severely critical of the budgetary bill of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. In our opinion, the budget shows a betrayal of voters and a lack of ambition when it comes to investments in the nation's welfare systems. So much of it was if not all stakeholders who came to the panel meeting were very disappointed with the budget bill. It is of great importance that this country is a source of economic and social stability. I'm sorry, this financial bill doesn't do either. There is neither the necessary investments in the interiors of society nor the necessary revenues for the government that are being made right at this time of the eruption. The need for public investment is also important. As the economy slows down, the income will not be sufficient to cover the current expenses. That is why it is very important for us to look at both the payer side of the bill and the side of the income. In addition, a very interesting picture is made when this left - green financial bill is compared with the budget bill that the fall - bombed government presented. That bill has been called left-green representatives by permission of the president, the right hunger policy, and the misogynistic form. However, it turns out that only 2% of the government's expenses were to be changed between a budget prime project, with a total change of 0.64% of the land's produce being made, a long distance from the election reserves that are not more than seven weeks old. There is very few evidence of change in policy or specific suggestions that would be considered due to the impact of a government class. The entrance of the left greener government and its impact on the terms of the government are therefore very limited and should be sorry. In my 1st period, we are particularly critical of the lack of well - being emphasis on this bill. The proposals of the greater part were to meet the wishes we heard on the budget. But now it turns out that a greater proportion of budgetors, representatives of the left green, advance class and Independence Party, are going to make a full 0.2% change in the bill. In view of health care, the majority of the funds in the budget are going to add 0.05% of their money to health matters. Is this a big offense? Is this the investment in health matters that have been called here repeatedly? Of course not! They see every man. It's not a combination, it's just numbers, it's just percentages that are extremely disappointing. That's why the criticism of the left greens hurts. It's not a 2% bill anymore. It's 2.2% bill. That's all. That is why I have asked: What was the point of fighting, my dear friends in the left green? In order to achieve a 2.2% change in a bill you called "Saturable" ◯, a slow hunger policy, based on a government budget that you called "Application Island"? This is a tremendous lack of ambition and failure. Here, I'm going to limit the basic criticisms involved in the bill. Of course, this is not a complete list of decompositions on the budget or the changes desirable on the bill. First, when reading the budget bill, we note that there is nothing wrong with society. I've taken these statistics before and will take it until we fix it. Today, 5% of the richest population today own nearly as much of the pure possessions, their own money, and 95% of the population. Let's just get together. Let's take the richest 20%, one fifth. According to tax returns, they own 90% of the community's clean property. You'll see how much there's a discrepancy. There's nothing to deal with this. However, before the election, the left movement spoke a green offer indicating that this incredible discrepancy had to be handled by the tax system. The budget bill doesn't do that. An tax policy that best serves the highest income will also be discussed in the Treaty. This emphasise the reduction of income taxation, which is primarily of benefit to the interests of the higher groups, i.e. as the income grows. That's what it says. In addition, there have been documented ideas of protecting capital owners from inflation due to the fiscal tax, the protection that the payers have not. We'll see how that's going to be. Once again, it's the resource fees, the hunting fees. They're 1.2% of government income. These are the fees we collect from manufacturing companies for using our common resource. We have this resource, the Icelandic people. It's against the law. This is America's share. On the other hand, we only get 1% of our income, the state, through hunting costs. This won't go on any longer. It is a national concern how many children live in an unsatisfactory situation in Iceland, but it is estimated that as many as 6,000 children are missing in our rich society. Listen, we are the 11th richest nation in the world. We are not a poor people, but the goods are indeed wrong. Incomes, both wages and social improvements, are the main factors in children's poor health. Even so, during the past few years, the child - welfare system has been allowed to disappear, which is extremely unfortunate, as a result of child welfare, is a very good way to help young families in the country. On the other hand, if you look at the Katrín Children of Jakobsdóttir's Daughter's budget, you will find that child reforms are just as high as planned on the government's bill based on right hunger policy, in the opinion of the left green. There's no child support. Neither in the original bill nor in the greater part of the budget board. Also, there is nothing added to the birthworm between the bills. It is so obvious that family affairs are being replaced by a new government. We can see that the buying power of the maximum amount of stocks made from the food reserve is currently about 40% lower than in 2007. What a work this is here to do! We in the United States will suggest an increase of $3 billion. This gives the board of directors an opportunity to keep up with the big words to restore the child - reform system. I would like to ask people to observe how the left green votes will vote when the motion is pronounced. It is also true that housing costs are relatively high from those with the least income. On the other hand, considering the growth reform system, the situation is even worse than the one seen in the child - reform system, for about half of those who enjoyed interest during the last cell service in government are lost from the system. They feel that they have too strong a possession, which is ridiculous as this has been. According to ASI, only 12.5% and amount of interest have been increased since 2010 as real - estate prices in the capital area have increased by 90%, the general prices have increased by 23%, and the remuneration rates have increased by less than 70%. This makes it possible for the growth reform system to provide support to fewer and fewer homes. Really, moneyless people who have little money in their homes, 20%, get no support through the growth system. Again, we will give the board an opportunity to correct this. We'll make some adjustments in setting 2 billion, which is not very great, and we can afford to do that, I can tell you, a little more for growth improvements to rebuild this system. In addition, donations are not expected to improve the quality of the housing. You're looking at a tenant's position. So there is no increase in housing issues between budgeted bills, but there is one of the greatest solutions in the government. We all agreed on that during the campaign. But it's not put more into the original budget to secure the construction of public apartments. We give the administration groups an opportunity to fulfill their word and suggest that there be 2 billion in general living quarters to cope with the challenges facing us and that no one is surprised. Consider health issues. The union feels that there is a huge need to give good support to the well - rounded structure of the public health system. We would especially like to consider the design and pressures of the staff, but notice that according to a new report from OECD, Iceland is at the bottom of all European OECD countries, when there is a relative budget for health care infrastructure. Next up is Romania. We don't like the infrastructure that I and the highest. The health minister certainly agreed just seven weeks ago. We're always wearing patches and braces, and now we can't even meet the modest demands of the Land Hospital. Coming to that right after. The total increase to every hospital in the country was about 3 billion. which is only 0.35% of the government's income. That's the big offense. There is an increase of 3% in health care between the primary metastases, nursing and rehabilitation services that are still less than or 0.6% between budgetors and nursing patients, a decrease in the number of years. We've received confirmation from a budget board. The majority of the evidence that this is going to be corrected in a financial programme is not going to bring water. We will also lose a year. It's supposed to be. The land hospital came to a financial committee and confirmed that it is nearly 3 billion short to survive. He is not offering any attendance or new, powerful service, just to keep on going. 3 billion or 2.7. Then what happens? A greater proportion of the budget decides to put what is in the Land Hospital? Zero. After all this work, there is no more part of the legal committee. The land hospital will not get a cent for a hearing on the budget board. Consider only health institutions in the country. According to a review from the Akureyri Hospital, 400 million people are missing. What contributes to the greater part of the legal committee? 50 million. We can afford 400 million. Why don't we meet the hospital problem in Akureyri? Similarly health institutions in the country called them: There are about 1 billion that are missing and that ensure unchanged activity against the health community. Yeah, well, a lot of the budget puts 400 million into it. Of course, I welcome every million people I can get into a box that gets into my medical system. But this is just half what it takes to keep seawater. I repeat, why don't we go all the way? I'm a spokesman for responsible government funds, and I can tell you that government funds will not fail to meet those demands. This is what the nation is calling for, and it calls for an increase in money in the health system. It's not like I'm asking more of the part to do something enormously unpopular. I'm asking him to do something that would be enormously popular. That's why I don't understand this political bitch and my priorities. It is a continuing hunger policy with health care in the country that we in the United States especially regret. I came in only earlier that it was striking at a meeting of a financial committee to listen to the representative of a nursing home, where they described their own troubled position. Of course I know there's no new problem. I know you can't do everything for everybody. I'm not speaking for that at all. But at least let's do something. Something is more than 2.2%, that is the definition of that word, in my opinion. Again, the disappointment is so great. In the bill, a contribution is not expected to reduce the patient's collection of health care systems as promised. On May 1, a new payment system became valid, but according to it, general users pay in maximum of a maximum of 70 yards. K. In a year that is considerably more than the 50 of you. K. who were promised to make changes at the Council of 2016. The union believes that individuals already have too much money in health care. We want to cut it down in stages. But no steps in that direction are taken here this time. Finally, regarding health matters, representatives of the Ministry of Health at a meeting of the budget committee confirmed that despite the so - called high attendance, there are still standards for health care. The land hospital gets 330 billion. K. A concierge by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This government does not even withdraw the requirements, let alone the injections we all agreed on, and the people agree on, wherever it is in politics. We will suggest a change in the budget for the increase of expenses for a special hospital service, which would primarily benefit the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, about 3 billion dollars. to meet the wishes the institutions asked for at a meeting of the Committee. Likewise, we want to meet the request made by health institutions in our country, and we have suggested that 500 million be put to the institutions that would ensure a meaningful and humble service in the country. Why is this not done? We'll see. Maybe the board of directors will see and press the "yes" button. I can say that this community will not go next to it. It also suggests that health - care expenses will increase by 400 million. Let's take a look at the academics. I'm going to focus on high school because I know that the university is reasonably satisfied, so it's time to celebrate well, of course I do, and I want to give the highest commendation. Education Minister for securing extra money to the university. I know it as an ex - teacher, since it is important, and I hope it continues in that parish. But with high school, you can do better. We received representatives from the branch office who said: "The colleges have reached the limit of endurance. It's not working. Despite the rise expected by the bill, there are barriers to endurance. This is something I give the highest credit for. A minister of education to take care of himself, and I know she will. BHM points out that developing research in a number of areas is essential, stating that the amount of money needed for research is too limited and the strengths available, e.g. from research funds too few and too low. This also requires that we consider, to investigate. In addition, the United States will certainly keep this large promise of the university funding to the average OECD state in 2020 and then to the 2025 states. I can certainly say that the Conspiracy will be accompanied by any category that will ensure that these goals will be met. They cost money, and then we'll just make sure that they go to this important party. Transportation. Clearly, the contributions made by the government for transport and communication are not enough to meet the needs of the country. I know we all agree on that. The local branch organization has expressed concern about the situation, and we see that the transport process is still abject despite what comes in with the bill and more of the legal committee. About the same time. Seven billion. The United States is ready to propose extra expenses for transport by a billion. It helps. Consider what is now much in the discussion, and it has been discussed. Take the initiative. paritaprevir The union, Friðbjörg Frildur, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, under the shadow of power: #metoo. It was shown to the budget panels on the bill that once the information system has been set up, up some computer software, etc. would be re-invented in the treatment of sexual fractures by 180 million. So the government is only defending - again comes down to statistics - 0.02% of its earnings on this important task, which is now very little. The Kingdom has 840 billion to play. I know the needs are great. But this is a very important assignment. Therefore, the union will suggest that 800 million more be put into this effort, which may include: will contribute to the growing number of highly important police officers. The millionth wave of violence is what the Conspiracy promised for elections, and a billion major offense against violence, the Conspiracy will survive. For the elderly. Once again, they're made to sit on the sidelines. This confirmed the older citizen's Society at a meeting of the legal committee. The United States is entitled to raise the income market for 25 - year - old pensioners from 25 of them. K. of 100 you. K. is a change we celebrate, but it is useful only to those old - age pensioners who have jobs and who have income above those income criteria. There are only about 14% of old - age pensioners who usually earn jobs and only one - third who earn money over this limit. Thus, the operation will not benefit the most income-employed pensioners as well as the change will be more successful for men than for women. In order to improve the benefit of those with the lowest income of pensions, it should be considered to increase the financial resources of social security and/or reduce the overall decline in the age of 45%. I'd like to remind you that 40% of the elderly are under the alimony. This is not a single group. Older citizens are that I remind 42,000 people in this country, 40% of them live under the line of living. Again, we are the 11th richest country in the world. It's so striking that it's not the right priorities. The older citizens' union pointed out that this bill, with the permission of a president, is not in any way consistent with the entire campaign grant. It challenges the government to do, with the permission of the president: ▪ The necessary changes to the primes now available to the General and to these matters. The government is to board the sleeves for voters and older people in the country. I accept this challenge. Let's go. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! We propose an increase in expenses for the elderly by 1.5 billion. Similarly, the poor are a group who have been neglected by governments for far too long. No matter what government has been, let's just take a look at it. It's a group that we neglect all too often and way too much. Sadly, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter will not change much. It is urgent to improve the terms of disability, the simple social security system toward this group in a comparable way, and it was done with those enjoying pensions. We need to focus on the ability to work and rehabilitation, etc., to do so in harmony and cooperation with the Microcreature Community, and to work out the problems of this group that are at a level of economic weakness in our society. There is a political will for all categories to do better. But let's do better. We will do so in the United States, offering a suggestion to add 3 billion extra expenses to disability. Finally, about our last adjustment. Iceland boasts of being a book nation. In Iceland, however, literature industry has been shot to pick up. One way to strengthen this industry is to extract a valuable tax from books. There are already certain products and services without worth tax. We're not messing up the system as some people in the community talk about, you can't make these changes because they run so the system, no, they don't. We've got three steps right now that we can lean on. Therefore, the union will give the board the opportunity to support - and now I look to the highest. Education Minister - taking away the worth of extra tax on books from next year's. It'll be nice to see how she votes in this regard. Now I've introduced the Group's transition proposal to spit on and cost a little bit, I realize that. If we add additional expenditures and reduce taxes on the basis of our contribution, the overall impact on the state budget is about 18 billion. We're going to double what left green is going to put in the welfare business. Doubles. We are going to do so, and much better can be done. It is obvious that if left greens had been working with us, we are not fully developed a budget as we would have done. They had the choice of working with the left block, but they chose to take the right block. This should be especially reminded of. It is wrong to explain that it was fully tried to form a government on the left side of the center. [[The point is, that's your story.]] That's my story, yes. Therefore, I stress that if we had been in the government, the funding of others and other projects would, of course, have been considered. Of course, it needs to be fine. Let us just consider some of the ways in which income ideas have been developed. We're now today or were voting about this morning that the amount of carbon should not be raised as it was supposed to. It's 2 billion that the government of the left green is giving up. These 2 billion would have been on the long track to meet the needs of the Land Hospital. She gave them up this morning. [[Up front.]] ASI has noted that securing an increase in income from foreign tourists provides a wealth of some 18 billion. We're laying up $18 billion. an increase in expenses that we could well have financed without raising taxes on ordinary people in the country. I don't think I'm irresponsible or unreasonable to say that we can afford to have this welfare structure as we were and that we all agree on, just before elections, at least, that. Then the capital tax could be raised more in my opinion. I've been in charge of all my resources. You might consider raising them. Notice that over a five - year period, the fishing industry paid 50 billion for its profit. During a seven - year period, the fishing route profited at 300 billion. Of course, resource costs should be raised. They're using a resource we all have. The wealth tax has been discussed. Of course, it should be a tool to increase the equation and earn money. We see a narrow and small group of Icelanders who are very rich. These people can afford to pay more for their co - use. There's nothing next to that, either their financial situation or their community. The lines of tea are indeed there. They're just not new. V.E.G. In this chair, the health minister said: "Make sure of the financial base of the state's budget so that money can be placed in the medical system. " It's a pretty direct quote. Then let's do it. I believe the Conspiracy is critical of this bill of fairness. There is room to deal with the needs of welfare, education, older citizens' affairs, disability, etc. To achieve only 2% or now 2.2% change, I'm fair, on the budget bill of the previous government as left green painted as right starving policy a few weeks ago, there's terrible results. Children's, middle - income and underpayers, patients, elderly and very poor, and, in fact, all the people of the world, are therefore misjudged by the Katrín budget of Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This will help to make good money for the public and will address the necessary structure of the infrastructure in the community. The financial bill, with the slight changes made by the committee, is far from answering the national call for a further investment in the community and is far removed from what the left of the election promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and a member of the committee what? Fundament Committee, Ágústsson Ólafur Áglússon. I learned some knowledge. A senator with interest in our cooperation on the Committee. Hv. A senator here used a fine number - in - depth combination, and this was a fine speech. I want to go on, however. 347 on the bill, which provides an excellent table for contributions to the health care system. That certainly is the priority. You're right about what you're doing. A member of the Parliament that the changes to the majority of the Committee are 0k. to the hospital again - but it's not 0K. ... intheprogram so that they can be served. There are 21 billion in the medical system. A steady price is an increase of 7.1%. The response of the majority of the committees was to add to local medical institutions to access these proportions. V.E.G. Minister has been well aware of this, including in the media, in the way of this exchange, and in the types of donations. Hv. A senator put much more into the income - gathering systems. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator considered it advisable to change the nation's major taxes in two weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u55	Mr. President. To answer the last question immediately - yes, I think we should have made more changes in the tax system. We're now raising the fiscal tax by 2 percentage points. Would it have been possible to raise it by another 2 percentage points? We've been discussing here over and over again the idea of raising the income of foreign tourists. And notice that we are always losing another year, since there are no new incomes to increase from foreign tourists, which are 2.5 million today and were 500,000 in 2010. We always miss the possibility of earning more money from foreign tourists because the report also needs some adjustment period, etc. All classes had ideas of tax change proposals in the process of election, so, of course, it would have been possible. Another one has happened at a shorter time in this room. So, yes, so I answer that question. You always call my statistics numbers numbers. You can call her anything, but I like numbers. I compare this bill with the bill of the previous government. It is true that there was one election between them, and there are two new companies in the government, the left green and the forward party. That's why I'm looking at what you've done, what the change is, after things have changed and you've replaced them. The change is just 2.2% and that's 0k. In the hospital when I compare the bills. That's right, just to be perfectly clear, the Landspite gets an 0K. by treatment of the budget board. Of course it's not an offense. The chairman of the legal committee listened to the director of the Land Hospital who said: "We need 2.7 billion just to keep water. Why don't we just do it? Then I would have something other to talk about than Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I'm pretty sure that economist Ólafur Ágústsson hadn't been in and turned large base systems into taxation. He well knows that in professional life, this is not a very realistic estimate. I reiterate what I said in the previous reply, there is a 7.1% increase in contribution to solid health care prices. Here, I would like to agree that there has truly been an overall need for investment, but here is an enormous reversal in which the tone is given to meet this cumulative need. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator cannot deny that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u57	A respectable president. Hv. In his ensuing speech, a senator stated that there was a certain tone to be heard about what was to come. I'm pointing out that this is exactly a fake tone. Now we're at the height of the swing. If we cannot meet the elderly and the poor, the poor children, and the families at the height of the mood, when can we do so? In the down cycle? Is this the experience of these groups? Why can't we do that now when we have the potential for earning money? According to the Senator, changing the carbon costs is complicated and making more money. We could have received 2 billion more by pressing one key this morning, by pressing yes and making sure that the carbon bill was raised only about 50%. It was to raise it 100%. The linking point was no more than the pushing of one button, and 2 billion had left the state. The same can be said of the fiscal tax. We pressed one key and decided that the capital tax would be 22%. [[The president calls.]] Why not 25%? The wealth tax isn't a complicated contribution. We had a wealth tax, which, depending on the year, gave 51⁄210 billion. It's not that complicated, what is lacking the political will of these blessed administration classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u58	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. What I'm most concerned with is that this government really needs a government stand. How important it is that she gain a powerful position in government from those who are going to keep watch regarding the equation and justice in the land! I want to. I think it's important. But I also think it is important that this position of government is reasonable and does not have any combination exercises that normally involve killing the conversation over, for that is quite materially enough to deal with, even though you do not also have one of these. I could just stand here and say, "Is the Conspiracy now all turning to change options for the budget bill 2.2%? With 18 billion changes now at 2nd. ... abundant? Is that all the change the Conspiracy is making? Is that all the difference between the existing government and the wishes of the United States? I think we should try to succeed in another way, for there really is a basis for it. What I want to say first, for whatever. One member speaks of the health system and selects a set of guidelines based on what might be suitable for the presentation, that the last government would add 13 billion to the health system from the last financial system. In a new financial bill, that amount increased 8 billion in two weeks to 21 billion. There is an increase of 61.5% in increased donations for health care between the first and the second. Should we take some of these sessions in what percentage is appropriate for the subject at any given time? Hv. A senator described after an increased injection in the patient's payment session. That's where we've added 500 million. K. First thing. A senator there spoke of zero, as well as beyond. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator what he believes is a good goal for non-profit patients in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u59	A respectable president. V.E.G. A health minister calls for a more effective government resistance. Let us try to live up to it and give it a powerful position of government. I don't know any better than that. A health minister himself was very powerful in his opposition to government. I guess she'll understand which direction we're coming from. V.E.G. A health minister speaks of a combination exercise. What are the budgets? They're about numbers and what political numbers are reflected. I think that the more part is killing the cases, not the government side, by comparing the results you've achieved in relation to the bill that you so severely criticized. Let's just talk about numbers. Where do the numbers I'm talking about come from? They come from the Land Hospital itself, saying, "We need 2.7 billion." They come from the Hospital in Akureyri: we need 400 million. They come from the nursing homes, which literally talk about a drop from year to year. They come from health institutions in the country that talk about missing a billion but now only half of them are being treated by the legal committee. The numbers come from the institutions of the U.S.A. Secretary of health. That is why I find it very Spanish to see that we are being criticized that we repeat the wishes of these key organizations. In terms of the payment process, the Consequences have put forth a plagion that individual payment parties have to down to at least $35,000, covering $35,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u60	A respectable president. Thank you for your reactions. I asked why. A senator's goal in patient payment. I know why. A candidate has studied OECD reports and is monitoring the database involved. It is based on the identification of percentages, i.e. The proportion of patients self-implemented. I ask the senator what he thinks is a success of goals. Now we're about 17%, and we've been for years. Is that a good place for us? Not in my opinion. I believe we should set the goal considerably lower. But I'd like to know what it is. A senator and the Conspiracy have some objective in this regard. The increase from year to year, perhaps most important, in general, is 8.6% at the local medical institutions. 8.2% for Land Hospital. It's the numbers. Verg domestic production, pure health production is 7% in 2016, 7.7 in the current year and about 8.5% in the next year of GDP. There is a significant step toward strengthening the public health system, which is, in my opinion, the most important thing we can do now, in view of the fact that it has been greatly divided by the health - care systems here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u61	A respectable president. Yes, I also remembered that 17% was the share of individuals in health care here. It'll do the rest. I agree with it as the highest. The health minister says we need to lower it. I don't have a precise ratio in my mind in this regard. For me, it is vital that people be able to seek health care regardless of their economic status. We hear that's not our system today. People hold back from pursuing health care because of economic conditions. We shouldn't have one of those. We need to reach these groups. There was an agreement that the roof should not be $70,000, that should be 50 thousand. Why don't we take that step right away? Would it put everything on its side to lower the roof? No, of course not. And as is the case with Land Hospital. He does not call for so much in view of the situation in which the government's budget is living today. V.E.G. A health minister says it's a step, but it's just a chicken step, not even a step. That's why the disappointments are so much in the Union. [[For example, consider this: It's not fair.]] No. [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u62	A respectable president. The policy of this government in education is very ambitious. We can immediately see it in new financial laws and the large increase there. The growth and increase at the university are about 9.9%. It is clear that we are about to reach the OECD average in terms of budgetary contributions for each student. Of course, we stress the importance of having better training, more research. We have very good cooperation with the college community in order to achieve these ambitious goals. I like it when it rains. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson mentions this. We also see that the university council is very happy with the development of education. It's also quite clear that if we don't go to the big business the government's reporting on education, we just won't be competitive in the next few years. It is extremely important that we join together, the whole world of Congress, and policy in the right direction. Sounds like I've got a lot of guys here. With regard to high school, there is also a large increase. The largest increase from the financial collapse is over a billion in prices into high school. We're about to start an assessment of the changed arrangement and see what effect a reduction in high school will have on us. The government also puts a huge increase in training and training. We will see changes that will take place right next year in order to meet the high school program better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u63	Mr. President. In particular, I welcome the government's aim to achieve university funding over the two OECD countries in four years and on a couple in the North countries in eight years. That's a lot of money. It might be nice to have a minister tell us in the future how much it costs. I remember that at a financial committee, it was said that $3.4 billion were involved. I'm very excited to see how it works. A minister of education is taking care of this growing money at the university, hoping that it will happen not only at the end of the course but during this most elected period of time. We'll see how bad it is. The health minister is on his way to secure money for his party. I sure hope that's the best. Minister of Education is doing better. It certainly has allies in us at the United States and others to ensure a well - funded college level here. As we have seen, there is an enormous importance in increasing vitality, and especially in biomass. High schools are increased by 1.8%. I'm happy for all the increase, and I know the Ministers are going to have to deal with the Ministry of Economics and Prime Ministers, as well as to get the money for their case. Then let's do it. I challenge the highest. Secretary of education and the highest. Healthcare Minister to reach the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, the foremanagers of this government, in the process of meeting these promises in the campaign and ensuring extra funds for education, especially high school. The officials of high school spoke of them as achieving the boundaries of their endurance. Then you listen to it. But, as we have discussed here, the problem is not least in health matters. I'd like to take a second answer to shoot a question to the highest level. Education minister, for she has spoken of the need to eliminate the book tax here: how will she vote when that proposal is brought up later this evening?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u64	A respectable president. I just want to talk to the Icelandic government, and it's important to put it in the middle of nowhere. We present a complete approach to how we will strengthen the English language. In the Treaty, we have told them that we are going to cut off worth tax on books. We are also going to strengthen the media environment because they face serious problems these days, especially with respect to foreign competition. I suppose that's what. A senator has observed the fully funded grammatical project. No other government has. It's an ambitious, fancy project that we're doing in cooperation with our professional life. I think that out of that, very exciting things will happen that will strengthen the Icelandic. I believe, however, that the approach we have is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u65	A respectable president. I surely welcome this language - making campaign and welcome the emphasis of a government contract that is here to emphasize the importance of education and trade. It's a long time. I think that we in the United States and in the government stand are quite reasonable in this regard. There are many positive things in the government covenant, of course. That's why the budget was so disappointing. In the case of the wonderful promises, there was little to be said about them. Our education is one of the most important things we can care for. We're going through the fourth industrial revolution and we're going to aim to be a human- and cultural society, from being the raw nation we are, the source nation. That's why it's so important. Prime Minister and secretary of finance ensures the highest degree. A minister of education will get the money she needs to secure the foundation of the education system here. I know it's the highest. In this regard, the Minister of Education owns allies in Convergence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u66	Mr. President. I'd like to recommend the Committee to A.D. 2 on a smaller section of the budget. My point is to say that the big message on this budget bill, and at the same time the greatest disappointment, at least for me and my team, is this: that the great growth that has marked the Icelandic economy in recent years and years, the great success, the great prosperity, should not be used to benefit the prosperity and rightness of those who have lost interest in Icelandic society. That's the big message. It is known exactly which groups of people to discuss. There are certain groups of elderly families, including the poor, the poor, the income - stricken children's families. It's all well known. Sadly, the ambition you would have had to hope for these groups is not over. Before I get to that point, I want to find out that a financial committee has worked very hard under the unusual conditions, under the pressure of time, and has had many visitors. I'd like to thank you for your cooperation. However, it has to be said that this is a natural, very unsatisfactory procedure in discussing the largest and most important matters in every government, the budget, that it is so quick to write on every subject that it is true. There have been significant improvements in the budget done in recent years, including the laws on public finances that set an important frame, a major step. A financial body that offers professional reviews, very positive. Sadly, though, things do not always happen in that order and are added in the new setting. It will be explained by the circumstances created here. But the conclusion is that preparation to accept these budgets is, I'll say, inexplicably. Since we're talking about the rest of the money, I want to know that the budget received helpful tips from the Government Accounting Committee. They are examined in the above - recommended committee party and agreeed with them. In view of the income side of the bill, there still seem to be some details. It is not as if the government's policy on fishing costs in the fishing industry is now fully evident, and it stands up to the government to explain its policy on that subject. It's been reported that taxation has been introduced into the tourism service. There must be a government project. to prepare a return fee, as well as to revise the general taxation of the article. I emphasize cooperation with stakeholders in this relationship and, as well as the fact that any changes to be made will occur in a way that companies in this article have an adequate lead-in period. Next, I'd like to take part in a case that leads to the breakdown of pension for employment. It was a trial this morning when the changes in Pirata's proposal, which is the same subject as the bill we've made in the Gang of the People, were found to be simply canceled. Unfortunately, it was canceled. I call attention to a strong business union among at least three categories at the council, Pirata, the Central Party, and the Gang of the People. I hope more people will come with us to that bus. When discussing the income side of the bill, it must be very worried that the government fund is overindulging its produce, I allow it to be said, taxing money that is not enough for needy ones. It's not complicated to see it, and, of course, everyone knows. The Ministry's website shows the development criteria designed by experts. It shows that a single person needs about 224. K. in the opinion of such experts, who do not include housing. A recent article in the Morning newspaper, by a specialist in welfare research and social policies, Harpa Njáls, describes the belief that a straggility target is 366,350. to a minimum when including housing. However, such earners as these are needed and lower incomes, which do not drive them into need, are tax bills. It is sobering to think seriously about the need for a government fund to raise its produce on such tax returns. When negotiations are made to increase the rate of personality discount, such income is not covered by such taxes, there is an increase in the number of people who are always cast out of high numbers, which may be an indication of how dependent on government funds is on this taxation. It doesn't work, and it must be a common job for those at the Council to handle this matter and disappear from taxing poverty, for there is, of course, nothing else that is going on when earning money in this range is taxed. In fact, a group of people has proposed an idea of how to perform a form of transfer within the income tax system by increasing the personal discount, although this increase would be gradual and personal discount would fall on high income levels. We have mentioned the number 1.5 million in this regard, but those who were lowest of them would enjoy this operation. With regard to the holiday target, it is claimed that this is a priority on the government, which makes 1.1 billion for this project. In view of the lack of the change in employment and job opportunities that would result from the change, the estimate of the cost of removing the Sabbath actually does not support any criticism. Similarly, when an arrangement is in the present way, with a vacation target of up to $25,000, which may not even be enough for the costs of getting to and from the workplace in a month, it is naturally possible that the arrangement may have contributed to a black job that would even come to the surface if man's efforts in this material were solved. The contribution of older citizens in and around Reykjavík has taken a special interest in this matter and has been made available by Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, the administrative director who has published a more thorough report. He does so much better than making a simple, raw calculation that leads to an cost of 1.1 billion; he takes the step to the full; he evaluates what would be the additional incomes of the state's budget because of the change. His conclusion is that the cost for a government fund would be negligible, and this action would even bring financial benefits in terms of government funds. But I'm hearing a few things. It seems that according to the detailed diagnosis of the specialist, the senator's conclusions have not been reached by enough people. Here, you can hear a variety of voices. Congress officials believe that the cost of this treasure must be over a billion. As everyone knows, the poor have been left behind for a long time. If their situation is described in general, it can be said that they are living in a highly complicated system, as is said today. People must move nothing more than a financial punishment. This system has somehow been able to create some kind of poverty trap around the lives of these people, at least too many. There's a total dishonour in our society. It must take much effort and go much harder on earth in behalf of this society than has been done. We invite our members of our committee to come to various battles for which the qualified men have fought, and we make them our fight. There are a number of things that microchip is unfashionable in the budget. The increase in capital taxes is not affected by the people with capital pay, e.g. of rent housing, if that is the case. It's also about selling property. We made it clear to the people that child care is important to children's families, especially for microdoers who have children and who have low incomes. Child damages are too low, as I suppose men in general realize, some would say embarrassedly low, and I agree with that. I'd like to make up the subject that has been taken up by the Corporate Community. In terms of pay received by an individual on the basis of social assistance laws, No. 99/2007, to meet specific expenses on the basis of specific circumstances. Such pay is a tax bill, as if it were payable. This means that paying taxes, funding, or other payments for the cost of disease and disability, or other special circumstances, except those pay just over 60% of the amount that has been evaluated to meet the individual expenses. The improvements discussed include household care or other government agencies who do not pay, medical or drug costs or the cost of hearing equipment, rent - rent fees, living expenses in nursing homes, institutions, communities and in-houses that have been granted leave, electrical expenses for oxygen filtration use. In the first place, the microengineering alliance has made clear that the taxation of these payments, resulting in a chain-engineering effect by the reduction in income so - called revenues, such as housing, special housing support, and child - welfare. Similarly, in 2016, the Corporate Community has suggested a total of 46 million paid in total. K. It is natural that the government's financial resources could not be viewed without these taxes. It's a simple matter to make things right. There is reason to note that growth improvements can help to determine the outcome of low income, especially if they live in such a country as our beautiful country where interest levels are as high as humans know. It is a reason to agree with the Organization's opinion that building stock for interest needs to be increased annually according to the development of real estate assessments. It should be emphasized, then, that worth tax on prescription medicines and relief tools for disabled persons and older people should be eliminated. As people know, the policy of the Qualification Society is very clear, and it is very clear to their spokesmen at a meeting of legal committees, that on their part people are encouraged to improve their material resources with increased employment initiatives as the circumstances permit. It should be said that there are no obstacles to those who want and can earn money, such as part - time work, even if they are in disability. Ideally, these individuals should be treated no later than immediately by increasing the payoff rate for employment, in line with an increase in pay card number from 2009. The budget bill plans to raise the dental reimbursement rate for pensioners and the elderly. Of course, it's time to celebrate. It is surprising, though, that these plans have to be carried out until the year. The Health Insurance Protocol used has not changed since 2002, except for a slight increase of 5.9% in 2014. However, prices have doubled during this time, at least. ASI states that the Commission survey revealed that the dental fee is now an average hundred and sixty-two0% higher than the health insurance limit. Of course, everyone sees that the hygienic health of a pensioner and the elderly is at risk by means of or near the next one's bill of health insurance. They would have been able to march to the earth firmly and firmly, but the government announces it. Actions would have been needed earlier, and the amount of money would not seem to stumble as far as we can afford it. I'm going to allow myself to discuss this increase in carbon tax by 50%, which is part of the government's budget plans for 2018. Carbon taxes are expected to increase by 50%. A report by the so - called joinorism shows that this increase results in an increase of 0.03% of the index price of consumption. Is that not just a very small one and not everyone who can be very happy? It appears insignificant at first sight. But let us take a closer look. The loan of homes for housing is some 2,000 billion. The majority of the loans are insurance. If we raise this 0.03% rise in carbon, which is due to goals that no doubt deserve and deserve in climates and international commitments in that subject, we will find that our home owes as much as $2,600 million more because of it. What have they done to deserve an increase in debt because the government is going to achieve climate goals? What have financial institutions worked to obtain $5,600 million in homes because the government is going to achieve the goals of climate change? It's just a little thing, a little example. That's the way it's been going on. This is not new. The increases in indirect taxes have been found to have such an effect. But this small example is so crystalline and clear that no one should be overlooked what a distorted view of what we live in this financial system here. Of course, there is no other word, that the government is going to enforce goals on the basis of the Paris Convention in climate and that the homes owe up to $3,6,600 million more than they did yesterday. And financial institutions have found new demands in homes of up to five thousand million dollars. They have all the power behind them when it comes to collecting these requirements. And homes? They're completely defenseless. Where are counter-requisite measures on the part of the government in the interest of its households due to its climate policy and influence on the interests of the households through that rise? In view of the loss of part, the legal issues are very detailed. In the Gang of the People, the police have enough resources and equipment to fulfill their important role in the security of the cities and the state, as they say. The fact that the police have been underdeveloped for years is vital. Not exactly that there will be adequate improvements in this subject with the promises made on the part of a new government, especially the care of the police. There's a lot more to do. We in the Gang of the People will discuss the subject in our discussion. So I'm going to move on to some health issues. The Treaty presents a new health policy that the Icelandic health - care system should compare with what happens best in the world, where all the people of the land are to enjoy a fine service regardless of economic or economic conditions. That certainly sounds great. But it is to the opinion that according to the word of the bill, members of the National Hospital were not familiar with a meeting of the financial committees that they saw their share of evidence that it is a major concern for health care. The Akureyri hospital described the lack of about 200 million dollars over the budget. The hospital managers expressed concern that the nurses who are known as humans were falling behind in nonexistent markets. The health officials of the country said that the drift was starving, as shown in the bill with regard to their institutions. On behalf of them, they declared their arrival at the World Fundament Committee as a distress call on their behalf and that the visit was a source of relief from medical institutions in the country. It is also true to mention that the organization of alcohol and drug addicts described the crisis of a very poor position for the hospital at Vogi. More could be counted in this relationship, Mr. President. But this loose overview shows that there was something lacking that the financial bill contains significant information on the promises made regarding the structure of the New World Health Organization. But I must be careful that, on the other hand, on the part of the budget panels, there have been published budgets that are specifically applied to health institutions in the country and the Land Hospital. Of course, that should be appreciated and respected. But then I say, The increase of the government in health matters, as he is shown, must be greater than that, to satisfy the bitterness of hunger. It is stated in a budget bill to hold firmly to the location of a new national hospital on the Ring Road, despite bringing experts, if not the best, have pointed out, including those of the new members of the General election, that the basis for the local selection, including building volumes in this area, is simply not able to stand. It is based on reports that have reached their years and that have become at least 20 years old. Among other things, I think I may claim "two tunneles, " including one under aggression. The Grand Way is supposed to be in a deck or with some special arrangement. None of these factors are available. The amount of building is threatening this area. Older ones have, among other things, assumed not related things, such as that of advancing downtown. The approach to the University of Iceland is emphasized, as if one should be able to understand the practical significance of this. The situation in this matter seems to be this: On the one hand, it is claimed that the hospital is up - to - date, but the situation is that the preparation that has been conducted for years seems too long and costly to reevaluate its location. Well, that's probably not good. What could be said about such a problem? [[Set it up: not okay.]] Can we call this a full-priced mistake, Mr. Honorable President? In the case of the nation's going to a successful hospital in the best area of available means, a huge mistake is to be made. I would like to draw attention to what the Committee's Committee on Funding. A great deal of duty and responsibility is laid upon a minister in each case. They should take action. The following is an example showing that action has not been taken in an inadequate way. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish my case in view of the fact that my time has run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u67	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator and a member of the committee what? The legislature board, Ólafur Ísleifsson, for the best of speech and the careful use of committees. I can agree with many points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator who is going to enter a few features of the event. Hv. A senator was very familiar with the interests of older citizens and disability. I'd like to ask. This has been shown in both the government covenant and the supreme case. Department of Social Affairs, a statement has already been made to the Quantum Community, the Developmental Help, and the groups to catch the ball where these groups dropped it at the time it was taken up into a system of changes on the ideals of older citizens. How can you tell? A senator? Is it not wise to follow it in this way rather than to attack such a major system change in a short period of time? On the one hand, I agree with everything. A senator says it's insurance. We share that opinion. He's pointing out the mortgage. Despite the increase in prices or changes in index values, there is evidence of slowing down the increase in housing prices. Is it not wise to examine it before we begin taking it out? I'll pass by according to other nations, how they measure their index.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u68	Mr. President. I thank you for the comments of the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. In this committee mask, or in my speech, it is spoken for the attack of structural change immediately. Everyone knows that such needs a natural approach. But what I stressed was that on the part of the government, these 4.7% of the cases have been criticized and reasoned with logic, including the above. that it is based on an increase in the index price of consumers, thus laid the foundation, rather than on pay. Of course, there is reason to remind us of that law in the 69th chapter of the Bible. law on social security which is quite clear on this point but has been used, to some extent, the part of which is not completely clear, as some sort of villain to escape an increase according to the index price of consumption. I agree with what. A senator on the mortgage so that in the first place it is the home product. It does not support an international role model. In fact, there may not be one international model. Of course, learning from experience is essential. We must not be allowed to get further involved in the establishment of demands at homes that study the value of cods in Icelands each year because these housings are increasing above other indexes when the index is generally down, including, in general, decreasing the index. Due to the policy of the greater part of the city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] I don't suppose I will. A senator likes that direction more than I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers are excellent. I'd like to agree, and it's good to have more in the fight, to talk about insurance. Hv. A senator was well - aware of the impact that any rise may have on the loans of his homes. It is time for us to start respecting interest as the cost of money, just as it is. Valuable insurance is nothing more than money's price, it's nothing more than interest. It's not supposed to be such an automatic raise, I agree with it. But I'd like to introduce to the committee party why. The senator and the 2nd small section of a fine section on the implementation of budgets, since that is our joint work. I'm complimenting you. A senator for taking that section in the committee opinion and supports every word there is. I'd like to add about 30. Gr., when we go to get the highest. Minister with a report on what the budget is going to do, that I look forward to the work with urgency. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u70	Mr. President. It has not been enough, and it has been overemphasized, even though it has been said repeatedly, including. on the part of what is spoken here, that commitment to a person who is taking over and/or signing a price-worthy loan is so wide. There are a million things that can raise this seat and weigh the load of payment. The lack of protection from those involved in much stronger parties in the vast majority of cases is absolute. All the power of the legal system is behind the other party. Regarding the practicality section, I view it as very important in this committee party and am very sorry that I had been unable to review it further in my background. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, I had to give full priority to the interests of those who are in our society when I assigned my speaking lesson in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But thank you for the senator's comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u71	President wants to decide what. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to respect speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u72	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Ísleifsson For a fine talk and a thorough and well - thought - out consideration of the above - mentioned things, the son of Issuas, is fraught with fine speech. He also did so in his talk. However, I would like to step aside to the chapter that allows for the problems of disability. I think a lot of what it says is a very positive notion that this is a class of changes. I just wanted to ask you in the first round. A member of the body of elders into what is now more important is the proposal to increase 166 million and make changes in order to achieve these 300 levels. K. is it not the forward target that raises the family needs? I think it's a positive change, even if it's not a big one. Then I wanted to ask. A senator a bit on the same page as the chairman of the budget board earlier. This was shown in the case of a man. The senator to the system we have is extremely complex and a number of factors play into it. Is it not important to continue the work that has been going on and to review the social security system with this group of people? Is it not a better setting for such action to take on some deeper job, though, than to attack a very large system change in a few days when we are finishing the work of a budget bill? At the same time, I say there are some very positive things. A senator brings in as a possible change in which to attack. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Social and equal minister for his inputs, which I consider very positive in all respects. I'd like to start by saying anything, as I did to the what. The chairman of the budget board, that on my part there was no suggestion for a system change that would be attacked in a few days, was the core point of what I said about interest in money in the seminary that no one should respond to the pleas of the elderly and desperate to be removed from sticking to these 4.6% because the basis of this change is not correct. There are, indeed, many positive ideas about change. It is a very creative and fertile thought at the scene of the Quantum Community. It is an honor for me and my fellow soldiers to take up their suggestions and pronounce them here. Of course, the most part of the proposed 166 million should be respected and evaluated. That's at least Better to have them than not. Finally, I thank you to the Department of Social Affairs. I am convinced that he will be very effective in this series of issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I know there's a pack down there. This is a class that is very important to the senator, and he is given a large amount of space in the members of the Committee 2. I want a vision. Senator. Is it not a reasonable approach to this, we are able to work together on only a change in thinking about the quality of life, which would be more in harmony with the priorities of the Micro-Community Community, while attacking the improvement in the social security system, which would include: that there are many factors that cause depression. A senator comes on, would it not be convenient and positive if we did and could post it as a project for the next year so that we could enter a budget and make some long - term plan for a change and increase in some of the factors that follow? [[The president calls.]] Can we not be sure that a group of people will come along on the road that will take place? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u75	The president's rights to the speakers to wait for them to be introduced to the talk before entering the puzzle. It is good to learn from the mistakes, do them that way, and do them right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u76	Mr. President. I thank the President for vital instruction and the kind and loving spirit that characterized his entire career in the small course here. I would like to use this little time to draw attention to the 166 million to remember that they have the goal of bridgeing discrimination against older citizens. It is proper to assume that there is a need for legalization of the Ministry. I can assure you of the highest. Ministers and others that it will not stand in the people's Tracks to participate in the necessary and massive work that is available, to improve the cost of disability, and to make up for the rest of the work they are prepared for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. She has many things to say, such as law enforcement, dentists, and health care. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator also discussed only the quarters of the index, as well as the effects of a carbon tax on the index and debt of the households. Valuable insurance is something that we would rather reason here and for good reason. It's a major phenomenon for our economy and economic policy, as it were. I'm not gonna reason with what. The senator for the index team. I am not entirely convinced of that matter yet, but I have not been able to study it well enough to form a final opinion of it. On the other hand, I have a rather strong opinion about the price of housing loans, like many others in this country personally with an apartment loan, and I know both the security and the insured loan well, and I have tried to calculate the prices of such a loan in my time that I did not succeed. Since then, I've been getting better calculations. But at least they're very complex. Right away. A senator asks a number of times why financial institutions are leveld at a higher level in the home, of course, the answer is that people take in securable loans. I can appreciate that there was no room for complaint. But today, people have chosen. Why? Because the deal it made means that it gets less interest against borrowing in securities. It accepts the risk of inflation, and the bank reduces its interest. You can turn it backwards. I acted the other way around myself. But there is an indiscriminate amount of money. I wondered: " If insurance would not be there - and I assume that it would. A senator is willing to receive insurance, he will correct me if I am wrong -- what should be replaced, considering the extent of this phenomenon, as regards making long-term investments and long-term commitments over Iceland's heads possible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's input. When it comes to securities loans, what should replace them? Price insurance, as I mentioned, is an example of a superior financial genius that has only accidentally gone by our neighbors. I got it. I got it. A senator to consider: Today, for example, the Norwegians are very close to Iceland. They have a coin that will swing up to a dozen percent if it is, and if it is, it is not long to look for a price, because of the appeal of oil on the international market. Yet, they have resolved to take up this arrangement. What should replace it? The answer is simple: Only Western people are in financial danger. Valuables are not used in the world in general. The late bank claims to have found an example, mentions Uruguay, and something in this regard. But it's not used. That's exactly what's going on, and it's going to be very clear, including... in the report of the Federal Bank. It is very simply that we rely on and adopt the Western ways in this and have the same system that happens and walks in our neighboring countries. I reiterate what I say: There are so serious flaws in this arrangement that people are not offered. The commitment to borrow money is so extensive that it is nearly short on loans during the loan period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u79	A respectable president. Premeditation is a good word to end this. I understand these opposition far better from the time when nothing was available but inflatable loans, but now there is a choice. Now, anyone can choose not to take credit. It simply costs more because Iceland has high inflation, for any reason or reason, and loans simply cannot be made on less interest than they really do. I sometimes wondered if people who are so opposed to the insurance policy would be willing to save themselves, put aside, be disloyal. To put in the pension fund if it wasn't insure, as it's legal. I wouldn't. Not in Iceland. Not in the Icelandic crown. I wouldn't be an option. Not unless you're talking about 71.78% or 5% interest, or I don't know what, at least a lot higher than I can get when you're sure about it. Hv. A senator said it wasn't an offer. Well, that's exactly what it's all about. People can totally deny the price of a loan today. [[The president calls.]] It just costs money, so something else needs to be replaced. If the idea is simply to ban securities on loans, something else must be replaced by people who cannot handle the interest of 25 or 40 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u80	Mr. President. There are two points to consider in connection with a word. Senator. It's gonna cost you, he says. What environment is there in an Icelandic family who wants to seek funding at their home?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u81	A crown's environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u82	It's in a petite environment, but it's in an environment that's characterised - why, why. Senator? [[Up front.]] - Because there's an unsatisfactory competition between the loan institutions. On the contrary, there is a striking evidence of cooperation - not to be called consultation, something to do - between these institutions. They have handled their affairs, so that interest in securities on loans is so high that people may be permitted to take these loans. Of course, understanding it is not difficult. This is because the so - called insurance balance of the bank is so good that creditors are more secure than disloyal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u83	Mr. President. Law No. 123/2015, of the official budget of January 1, 2016, is mentioned in Article 1. that the purpose of the law is to promote good economic management and the firm and responsible government of public finance. To this end, the law is aimed at ensuring a broad range of long-term, short-term public financial policies and careful planning of the programmes and laws relevant to the economy of public citizens and to the development and management of public funds. Among the major changes and innovations in the legislation from the earlier State budget, as well as the emphasis on increasing public financial policies, there was a change in budget production, both improved resources to respond to variations and adapt to international standards for State accounting. The key factors were that more detailed regulations were laid down than in terms of government financial policies and the order of financial counsel. Its role is to assess whether financial and financial policies follow those baseline to 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. At contributions on the bill for funding, there would be a search for sources for expeditation and litigation, in place of individual funds and projects. It was a complete novelty. The government's decisions on tax expenditures and loans are a major factor in the demand in the economy. It is generally considered that because of its size and importance, the government should bear in mind the economic impact of its activities in making decisions in terms of financial matters. There is a noble goal in this law, but the question is, Is it followed? That's a tough question, especially when you look at history from the law. At that time political instability has been chosen in the fall of the Council twice. The law seems to be inexorably elected to the Generals unless it is spring. In terms of my third part, the budget might have been much better. The country's fellow representatives have very little access to the legal work given them. Moreover, they had no time to enter the bill. Is that a lot of thought - provoking, especially when it is thought of as being twice that elections have been at a bad time in relation to the law's goals? It is claimed, therefore, in a committee list, that the elected representatives will be removed from the government system of government, which has now twice made legal laws for the State. The head of the committee opinion 3 is deeply concerned about these facts, and it emphasizes the fact that the situation is considered to be an isolated case and that it does not prefer the implementation of these facts. It is the job of senators to place financial laws, not government officials, for members of Congress are responsible for the budget of each year. A smaller third of the budget committee claims that there is a conflict between II and II. Chapters, financial policies, and III. section; on bill for financial and financial resources; on law No. 123/2015, on public finance, in financial work for 2018. My third section agrees with what is stated in the review of the Association of Employment, which was sent to the World Fundament Committee. For one thing, it shows that there has to be an advantage for the nation's prepare for tensions to end and that there is a need to increase the share of the state's budget as long as income stocks are strong. Keeping up time and turning away from the process of raising up expenses is a must. It also says that the priorities of government spending are necessary, that the cost of the State is high in historical and international comparisons, and that there are ways to make more tax money. In addition, a smaller percentage of legal committees agree that it is important to keep paying off the State's debts, since the debt of the state is still too high and the cost of interest is burdensome. All priorities are lacking in budgetary bill, in terms of 3 smaller objects. Nowhere in the bill is it found that government management is not to be controlled or to unite institutions to save money. It is indistinguishable that the Independence Party handles the financial interests of the state in such a budget and tax bill that is now published by a newly elected General who has the sole objective of expanding the hall without setting priorities in society's foundation. The late bank has said, among other things, that the bill does not include a conservative financial policy, and it embraces a smaller third part of its whole mind. The financial bill primarily describes protection from a dominant system, not a nation's parish. I'll take them to Land Hospital and Health. The bill asks the council's authorization to sell the country of the state to the people, to the Colognehols, and to the Wolfshea. The surrounding region has been in the discussion as a suitable area for the location of a new land hospital. So the government's plans to sell the land are blow. It should also be mentioned that in the recent year the state's land was sold to the Vifilos. The border is also included in the discussion as a suitable location for a new county hospital. As a result, there will be no other conclusion but that the objective is to prevent the rise of the new Lands Hospital. The governments seem to be united in that matter. One of the board of directors, the forward party, emphasized the idea that a new Landspike would be built in a new place. Seems to have fallen from his election marriage as soon as he sat down in the government. The construction of a new land hospital is necessary and a national, economic, practical project is necessary. When asked in the current home of the Hospital, the director of the hospital at a meeting of a financial committee recently said that he was going down. There is a known problem with mold at the hospital's facilities and also told the director that long - term work is to make the home healthy. This sums up a $2.2 billion budget for the land hospital. St. John's wort is not recommended. The hospital's total budget for maintenance and investments for 2018 is 3.9 billion. This is a lot of money, and it further emphasizes - but it has emphasized in its language - the need to immediately attack a new hospital in a new place. It is a responsible part of the Land Hospital executives to maintain protection against organization and housing, even more than some houses in the Aarhus rather than to join those who want a new national hospital in a new place. Therefore, you may ask, " Is the amount of maintenance asked for in real life for maintenance or other aspects of the hospital business? ' Most people realize that the Landspians are in a monotonous position in competing for staff in all sectors of health care, and this is a dangerous trend. The healthcare professional environment is just as important as the service provided at the Land Hospital. A smaller section of 3 shows that the work of healthcare professionals and patients in the future will be the best payment by the construction of a new Land Hospital in a new location and that capital should not be spent on the bill for financing 2018 and instead continue to limit the possibility of a building as stated previously. The bill does not address health needs in the country. Of the 8555 billion. A c., which the more part plans to add to the health system, is a small addition to the settlements of the country. As a result of this improved priorities, the population of the country is being broken down, and it is unacceptable. In the case of health - care officials in the country that visited a panel meeting, it was noted that their inquiry to the health Ministry officials was not answered. If they are answered, they may take more than six months. This is unacceptable, as I have previously mentioned from this discourse. For example, the management of these institutions was not consulted, nor are officials allowed to comment on the underlying rules of the Ministry's formula. It will prove that the government's budget is self - controlled, as it were; the government is in other words in charge. On the board of directors' websites, Hospital Services in the country will be strengthened. This law does not depend on that, so there is another. They're building up a special service in Reykjavík at the expense of basic services in the country. It is very important to rethink the ministry, and as shown in the case of one of the members of the Central Party, for a discussion of prime minister's policy debate, at the beginning of the 148th legislature, it is necessary to make quick progress in moving doctors to land, closer to patients, instead of bringing patients to the capital at any cost. Such an arrangement would be more inexpensive for the State, and it would make less noise for those in need of the ministry. A third smaller section of the budget is a major concern about the state of mental health and the apathy of the government. It has been shown that the incidences of disability are the main ones in this category and that Iceland is different from the North countries in this respect. It cannot be seen, in the bill for the budget of 2018, that the problem is addressed as needed. The slow structure of nurses in both the capital area and the region is indistinguishable. Has that delay cost the government dearly. For a few years, more than 100 clinics at the Land Hospital have been busy with people who live in other facilities. Instead of making the matter slow, the most expensive alternative is used. This situation might be likened to a loss of consciousness in government affairs and in service to the elderly. In the meantime, millions of dollars are less likely to be used to reduce the demand for tasks that are designed to provide quality projects than to care for basic services. If this issue is not already being addressed, then this project will increase the nation's population's population's population's population life span is increasing. Now I'm just gonna go with the insurance. The budget is not expected to drop the insurance fees, as the Independence Party had announced for elections, and it is somewhat surprising that the outfit is not engaged in one of its greatest election campaigns for these elections. A party that once had the slogan: The category of real work. All conditions are for the reduction of the cost of historical unemployment, but the price has not decreased in proportion to the decline in unemployment. There is still a better conversation, and there is an increase in the rate of inflation pressure due to negotiations. So it is important to take counter measures. The reduction in insurance costs is an effective factor in dealing with contracted pay increases and would reduce inflation pressure. Contract agreements are a factor in raising the fee and, therefore, the taxpaying of the state. It may therefore be reasoned that even if the price is dropped, the income side of the state's money will not be reduced. Remuneration is a matter of interest to employees. It directly affects their benefits and the ability of their companies to pay and hire people. This is an important provision for a discussion that should be taken immediately during the new year. The media wants the economy to be the most economics, that's the interests of all the people of the country. The party will make a change proposal to the budget bill that insurance costs will be dropped immediately in the new year. The reduction in insurance costs is one of the main priorities of the Central Party. If I go to law enforcement and police research only, there's a lot of pressure to raise funds for the police investigation. The number of tasks has increased substantially in recent years, including Because of the high number of tourists and foreign citizens serving in the country, as recent examples show. Similarly, there has been no increase in detectives. The pressures of functional detectives are high, e.g. with the chief of police on the Southnes. Increased expertise, training, and the education of detectives are vital. In addition, research tools need to be replaced. An issue under police research has become more complex and more extensive. A lot more time goes into the investigation because of this. Many cases have resulted from this. Sadly, the financial bill has no added emphasis on this important matter. The central category will submit a change form for the bill, focusing on increased financial resources to investigate organized crime and the rise in the number of detectives. If I go to education only then the bill expects more education donations. It's been made clear here, and we're happy to see it. However, this increased contribution does not provide adequate policy support. High school education is being overcrowded at the expense of industrial and technical education. Business markets lack a lot of money. Since 2000 the number of colleges attending the work market has increased by more than 140% while working for the same group has only increased by 50%. There are no contributions to the educational affairs of those with little education and at work. Among other things, the importance of supporting this group has been emphasized by the public relations of Iceland. If we interfere with the affairs of older citizens, how disappointing it is that the bill is not far enough in the right interest of older citizens and disability. The central category will carry a change in bill making that professional pensioners don't interfere with pension pay. It can be expected that the actual expenditure of the state's budget on this provision will not be so high as increasing scope for employment would mean increasing income taxes from the pay paid pensioners. In addition, it may be concluded that with the increased purchase potential of this group, there is an increased trend with the expected increase in cost taxes. In addition, increasing the activities of the elderly are expected to reduce social isolation and to improve their quality of life. If I take it only on the road, I'm going to cut down on the 7 billion - year road, according to a transport program adopted in 2016, despite the government contract saying there is a major application in this series. Thus, the number of urgent transport projects will still be waiting. The Central Party stresses the urgent task of breaking the Rockyanes Way in Hafnarfjörður, from Kaalssel Road to Krysavík's dissectors. Road events in the capital area have been down the road for far too long. This is a very important community project in an area where traffic weight is very high. The media proposes a total of 800 million. K. in this project in 2018 and that the project will be funded by canceling the fee for rentals that rent out cars. As a result, the central Party's motion on this matter will not increase the balance of state funds. I mentioned rental rent. It cannot be avoided in this regard to bringing up the strange provision of the government to maintain the appeal of payment for car property. With this arrangement, a wealth of money will be made up of. The government financial bill suggests that the intention of paying the price of such automobiles will remain with the population, which is reduced from 500,000 dollars. of 250,000. to a maximum of the vehicle. It was said that indiscriminately fell down at the end of the year and that rentals would pay the same amount of cash paid by civilian cars in general. Section 3 of the recommendation to cancel the coincidence now is not surprising to operators who have had an acceptable time to prepare. The number of automobiles has been exported to a large number of automobiles during the past few months, being used to obtain the discount. The government's decision to extend the above favors costs $1,500 million. K. In fact, in recent years the quality of tourism has been very successful, but some two million tourists visit Iceland every year. There is no sound evidence that this is no longer the case with the will of rentals. On the contrary, the rational support presented in a paper with the government's will-employment bill, a change in the law on automobile tax, fuel, No. 29/1993, with subsequent changes, helped to understand the need to cancel this source, but the report says that there is evidence to suggest that driving machines have overinvestment in human cars in the past ◯. It must be considered a very peculiar argument that the taxpayers should pay for overinvestment of some business partners. The public citizen cannot expect a government fund to give him special tax appeal if he goes above himself and overinvests, e.g. at automobile buys. It is somewhat surprising that the minister of finance, the guardian of the state funds, is acting in this way. The Central Party intends to bring a change to the bill that the coincidence will be canceled. At the same time, the pack will offer suggestions that allow the 1,500 billion. A k., which will enter the state's fund of deportation, will be used to further important social projects, such as health care costs, important roads in the capital area and climate, i.e. Forest and land - healing carbon bindings. So the suggestions will not increase the place of the state's funds. I mentioned the climate. One big thing about the government is climate. One of the first works of the new prime minister was to travel to Paris and announce that the Iceland government is doing better in climates than the so - called Paris Convention, and Iceland is a party. The beautiful promises don't work out in the budget bill. The bill says that there will be only about 80 billion of them. K. in a carbon bond, with forestry, with land healing, and the recovery of wetlands. The Minister of Environment, when he arrived at the branch office, said that these were not ambitious numbers and that they agree to a third. The central category will suggest changes in the bill to raise forestry and land - healing funds by a total of 200 million. K. The motion will not increase the balance of state funds. Thus, when a core financial bill was discussed, it included the following: the idea of means of money being heard of even the past unless there was a major failure, such as natural disasters. Many institutions of the State were canceled when law No. 123/2015 was introduced. In view of the frequent elections, the leaders of the states continue to rely on the permissiveness of the capital. Their success has been in terms of the budgetary products that have appeared in the last two elections since the Law was instituted. Thus, the work the Senate did during the implementation of the law was in vain, for the system behaves as if there were no new laws on government interest had been approved. This is a strong message to the legislature, showing that the government is on self-control without any financial or judicial goals. The arrival of an elected agent is small, so democracy in Iceland is in danger. It's a system for the better of having the budget blurred, ugly, and complicated in production. Also, a smaller 3rd body of budgetors feels that dating between years, institutions, and lawsuits is out of the question. This makes it impossible for new members of Parliament to form opinions on certain issues and issues. This makes the arrival of an allegorical representative of the Generals overly complex. It would be dangerous for the production of the bill to be simplified for a better access to the public and the Senate. Now I'm going to move on to the two adjustments I have. The second is broken down, or cut apart, but the first adjustment is at Count 6. the bill, stating that the end of section 4.4 will be removed and ordered to be dismissed to sell the state's land in the Kyldinum, at Kldnaholth, and at the Wolf's Shaveh in Reykjavík. This case, I listed here in my opinion. Then there is another adjustment proposal. It assumes that tens of thousands of dollars will be dropped in order to pay for transport fees worth one and a half billion dollars. and the value will be taken into account in the following ways: Health - care equipment costs an increase of 480 billion. K. and divided like this: Southland Health Organization, 90 million, Southland Health Organization, 90 million, the National Institutes for Health, 100 million, and 100 million Western Health. We have an increase of 820 million road contributions. K. spending on the Rhine Ways of Smoke in the Hafnarfjörður from Kaalssel Road to the Misinvolved Grand Ways of Krysavík Two hundred billion would then be put in place. K. to climate and the development of the Kingdom will result in a total of 100 million and 100 million Kingdom operations. There is also a suggestion of some 370 billion. K. contribution to the battle against organized violations as follows: Sets 250 billion. K. In an effort to combat organized crime, the country's police office and its customs are able to help. During recent days, there have been reports of organized crime and how governments have combined efforts against it. A report by the U.S. Marshal's survey in the fall revealed that there had been an increase in the scope and number of groups here. Such studies are extensive. It has been observed that a controlled study began in 2014 in Poland and that human supervision began in 2016. During this period, some 90 police and customs personnel have participated in national activities in cooperation with police in Poland and the Netherlands, as well as with the Europol and Eurolyst. The estimated value of 400 million was estimated during the drug operation. K. and other valuables to 200 million dollars. It has also been reported that this crime activity is not isolated from Iceland, and it is clear that organized crime is most evident in the import, production, sale and distribution of drugs in Iceland and it is believed that there are 10 organized groups in Iceland. It has then been observed that as people pursue organized crime, it will be more difficult for the police to resist their activities. Research in organized violations is thus required to get things done, to take a man's time, and to demand huge work. It is evident, then, that as technology becomes more complex, more researchers and perfect equipment are needed to be able to study things properly. The criminals themselves are on top of the food chain. It requires expertise and long-term research in order to have a chance to establish laws against that person. It will become increasingly difficult to see the activities of organized violations when investing in the legitimate activities on the surface that appear to be in order. Europol's staff have concluded that special knowledge is needed when investigating the financial ways of those who are involved in organized crime. A battle with organized crime will not be carried out by monotonous operations and temporary capitals. However, funding is now the first step toward further support for national research against organized violations. It is expected that funding will be assigned to projects involved in the majority of the countries. Southnes police chief is also expected to have 50 million and 10 million people, respectively. K. to renew research equipment, 50 million. K. For training, training, education, and accusers at national level and 10 million. K. the police's work is being done in connection with young offenders. So that's a suggestion of 350 million. K. contributes to the battle against organized violations. Finally, there is a suggestion to suggest that deposit for pensioners increase by 2,400 million. K. In view of the fact that professional income of a pensioner is not a waste of pension. This underlines will be discussed in my section 3 and the proposed changes provided here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u84	V.E.G. President. Here we listened to a talk. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, a member of the committee in my third part. It's a legal committee. It's about a committee opinion. Thank you. The senator's cooperation in a financial committee and a fine speech; he introduced many things I can say. We share interest in improving budget and financial management. Hv. A senator is quite harsh about the management of public financial laws, if I understand them correctly, possibly what has to do with money, as well as the bill itself, the production. My questions are two: The first question turns to the bill itself. The final chapter of the committee's opinion, so that I can quote it, so that the question will be clear, shows that there is an ugly and complicated process. I'm asking you what chapter of the bill is why. A senator to refer to? The committee also has a small open wording, which is said, by permission of the president: In view of the frequent elections, statesmans continue to rely on the permissiveness of the funds. They've done quite well... Well, maybe. A senator explains what he means better?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u85	Mr. President. Thank you for the chairman of the budget board. I come to the budget work as a new senator, and I cross the bill, and then I mean the printed version, and I think it's inexplicable. I've read various candies, but I have to say that this needs to be easier to read; it needs to be a dictionary, it needs to make comparisons easier, etc. It was primarily that printed version that I was referring to. Maybe I'll be on this committee for a year, and people will be naturally trained in this. But it is also sobering to consider when new members of the council come on such an important committee that there will be a course to take through the setting up of these bills. A client asks what I mean when I say officials have done quite well. When we met with the heads of the country, they said they were trying to contact the Department of Health, but no questions were answered and if answered, that would take six months. This is the point. They seem to be able to draw a line, and then those who are going to work after this do not even contact authorities who have authority, for example. does not ask about the rules and the like. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u86	Thank you. paritaprevir For a clear answer, Þórarinsson's son's offer. I found many chapters good and the contents of the bill good, general chapters on the economic presidents of the bill and economic forecasts, and many tables very clear and clear. When a section on a paper plan on the topic areas and the seminaries is involved, it was noted that the Ministry is continuing to cooperate with its aims. I can say with what. A senator who joins with him in the process of reforming, for we are amateurs for improvement. I understood it, therefore, that I would ask of state office and government officials, because it was a good discussion of the money. I am very pleased with these laws on public finance and the extent to which the laws provide the budget, as well as the monitoring, the monitoring of funds and efficiency and the use of funds. It was a fine talk in the discussion about the funds that came to spare funds and treatment and the use of reserves. I was in the sense of what I was doing. That is appropriate, but he has clearly explained his speech, his speech, and what was presented in the committee's opinion about it. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u87	Mr. President. I agree with what we just saw here. I want to thank you. A senator and chairman of the budget board for a good cooperation. It's been good working with him. He has been very comfortable, and we have nothing to complain about in our memory. I'm, of course, very interested in it, we have a common hobby, that we will be able to work on this committee, that it will be a good cooperation, and that we will improve things, including the need to improve. ... theprogramofthe bill. Just as an example of how important it is to be careful of this work and that it is in the spirit of the law, the N.S. Department of Health and Health came to a meeting with the Committee. This is a class of 400 billion. We had less than two hours to talk to these nice people. When so much money is involved, I feel very short. I know all the members of the committee agree with me that we need to make this right. I will, of course, contribute in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u88	A respectable president. In view of the circumstances that exist today and the way it was chosen to accept a financial bill, I believe that it was done almost as well as possible. However, it is not okay with this matter, we realize it, the position we are in. Everything you can do is wrong. Some may reason, " Time will be given to do better, that this is the best thing to do in the situation. ' However, there are good works at the bill, and it is a pretext, an excuse, and an atonement of one's own conscience. It's not enough to say that we followed the rules. We have a little more responsibility than that, only in a box, that democracy has been fulfilled and applied to all of the customers'rules. At least we should try to do so. It is now that several ministers were going to be there for the discussion. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that I'm going to call for the opinion of some minister, so that they'll be here in time. Then I mean Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Environment Ministers, Health Ministers, and Housing Ministers, but I guess not everyone will; they are determined hunger, to compete. In other words, I want to say specifically that no one is blamed for what went wrong, everyone wants to do his best, but with that attitude, people can often be misled and lose sight of the sort of goal. The goal of the council is to give the budget, as the Constitution says: No fee can be paid, unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. On the other hand, we are on the way to agree to the next year's budget at a record rate so fast that we have no idea what sources we're going to accept. For example, can someone look it up into the budget bill or just the copy and tell me why limited expenses for the topic field 03, the highest management department, are increasing 367 million? K.? I can't find any intelligent dislocation of it. Can someone tell you what a new or increased project is there for 196 million? K.? I don't see it so clearly either, especially because, while it was explained to us that 250 million is the priority in the framework of the committees - for new projects, very fine projects, I'm not protesting, quite brilliant information projects. But still: Instead of taking on a new assignment, the ballot in the topic field is taken out of the budget, this bed of nearly 200 million. Why not remove the budget vector from the frame and set these new priorities within it up to 250 million. J.K., right in through the cash range? The obvious reason is that the budget range is not enough to cover the 250 million. There's only 200 million. It needs to be done differently. I think it's a little bit of a connotation. It's very misleading, when you go through the budget bill, to see what you're doing and why, what new projects are coming and what old assignments are going and how they're doing. I then apologize for taking this subject out for others, that is true of all the topic areas. It was just very convenient to mention this because I got an example of priorities in the frame. I'm sure it was that way at every other topic field, too. However, we did not have enough time to examine it for obvious reasons. The program was about this: A financial committee arranged for visitors to introduce their reviews to the committee. The Ministry of Presidency was given an hour to introduce its share of the budget, the General Assembly office 30 minutes, and the Ministry of Health received two hours, including half an hour in welfare. A traveling minister might be interested in hearing that. State Department received half an hour. The Ministry of Education and Culture received an hour, the University of Iceland 20 minutes, the School of Education 20 minutes, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Justice an hour, the Department of Transport and Division for Transport and Economic Affairs, 45 minutes and the Environmental and Resource Ministry for an hour. Iceland's public relationship had 45 minutes, the company of industry had 45 minutes, the State Reexamination 45 minutes, the Federal Bank of Iceland 30 minutes, but only used 15 minutes - it was fine, some were only longer than they had time space in so it was a small equation there. Iceland's business council had 45 minutes, a political party executive half an hour to present 362 billion. K. an increase in the budget, as long as the Ministry of Health really got for 1/4 of the budget, very interesting. The land hospital got an hour, the County Society of Iceland 30 minutes, and the Hospital in Akureyri 30 minutes. A few hours later, there were five members of the medical facility in the country, and they shared it with each other. The health - care organization received an hour. The Development Organization received 20 minutes. Iceland's micro-creature alliance got 20 minutes. The older citizen's organization got 20 minutes. EAPN Iceland, an organization against poverty, got 20 minutes. In addition, the Ministry of Economics presented a presentation on a variety of terms and a general set of budgets, resulting in a three-and-a-half-hour presentation. On the basis of these presentations, we are required to make informed decisions on the legal rights to the government involved in this financial bill. More than that, I believe that people may not quite know that they are not making an informed decision and simply accept it for some reason. There I refer to the first reference that everyone is doing their best. In general, however, I point out the responsibility of this process to the government and sit myself on the surveillance chair where I should be, in my part. If so, I would point to the limitations of this arrangement and draw attention to the responsibilities of handling matters in this way. This treatment is making my monitoring work very difficult. The Commission is almost giving the non-published prescription. It follows that it will be very difficult to keep track of whether the government is following the regulations of the Constitution, that unless it is legalized, it will be very difficult to keep track of what it is going to spend on the money in advance. But now the Commission's request was granted to reenter the Ministry later in order to get at least that discussion afterward. Well, that's something. It inspires hope in me. Only on official financial laws, it is always fun: The budget should be based on current financial and financial policies. According to Government Accounting, the budget is at a low level, covering what a financial plan was expected in 2018. For those who don't know, it's founded, but it means, "You're in trouble with this. In numbers, this means an increase of 14.4 billion. and the proposals of the government, which came into question, were then 600 million. K. 15 billion dollars. increase. The law on official financial matters discusses the keeping of a certain baseline value. Of this 15 billion bucks. a pre-run operation is not entirely a constant follow-up of the baseline value. The government may want to minimize this, but it is mandatory to comply with its approvals and to provide funds that are in harmony with existing financial and financial policies. What senators do with their authority, according to their convictions, is a completely different matter. But we are not in that situation now, the government is going against the council's approval. As a result, I would like to ask the prime minister only about this, regarding the government's laws on public financial matters that I took to heart earlier: the objective may be to distribute funds at spring conventions, so that her weight at the fall council is less severe, has been discussed with the scope of the issues of government, policy, and focus of the previous government's policy at the end of the election. In any case, the budget is unclear in any of the financial policies presented in the budget. According to this, the financial agenda of the previous year is relatively vague and difficult to identify. It's very difficult to compare this. I'm looking for, when we go into the process of making financial plans, what it means for government policy, to do precisely, according to the previous financial programme. And what is the arrival of the Generals toward that course? In general, I think, I don't think the General could make changes and adjustments in policy options such as priorities. You may see that the General wants to fund more of the government's policy goals on certain issues, but it does not show or lack the list of projects that do not fit into the financial program. This is an interesting discussion that I would be interested in hearing of a prime minister's opinion. I'm thinking that we can't always say, "We're obviously going a little bit off now, but next time it's gonna be okay. ' One day it'll be payback. It does not always mean making rules about doing one thing and then doing something else. If this is the way the work should be done, though it may be, it is best just to write them down on a sheet so that we are not always skimming by the rules. The problem we've got here, handling money in no time, is that the rules say we have to do it. The problem is not a shortage of time; nor was a lack of time expected when the rules were agreed. I recommend that the government find someone educated in quality management so that laws will be bugged before it is taken for release. A lot of problems could be avoided if laws were properly tested before they went to the church. How would such an error test work? Suppose, for example, that while studying in Iceland, it was a law allowing foreign students to obtain a permit for residence. Then they'd be wronged by having the Icelanders apply for a permit, what would happen in that law? Or by having someone who has an address on the moon apply for residence. Or by having a foreign student apply for residence and then never practice the study, etc. Try every way to cheat the law and see what happens. Then test every way that should be a real example and see if the law meets all the problems. In other words, if any unforeseen occurrence occurs, it will be handled in any natural way that does not result in the return of students to their homes. Before the election, Piratars released the Obscurial law. Then, on the basis of a newly published budget bill, we put in writing how we would like to see the government's expenses and what we would turn into income and expenses. For the first time, it is known that a political organization in Iceland is providing its own budget for elections. As a result, a fourth section feels that this process will, unfortunately, be more historical than the response. I encourage all political parties to follow Pirata's footsteps in this regard. I've announced this before that I will work on a budget board to try to get that kind of structure to be given out the raw budget that the spring as class can use for the summer to prepare their own budgets at the same time. This would be a budget where only costs, expenses, etc., recalculated income, and the like, have not been assigned to these issues. That part would really be empty. Then you will be able to see much more about the priorities of the government and how it settles down into the topic areas. Regarding the 2018 budget: There are some comments to the budget, but since time to review the contexts of different chapters, sources, and other factors, I am not limited to the main points. Work contracts and economy. For example, in 2018, the forecast of inflation is 2.9%. At the same time, an increase of about 3% is expected. In the chapter on inflation, it also refers to an experience that is close to the peak and that the pay cost is very high in Iceland in the international context. It says, by permission of the President: In certain circumstances, when the incidence is low, the economy can tolerate future increases over production for a certain period of time without its competitiveness to be impaired. In view of the circumstances, this is a very interesting comparison. In addition to this, a 4.7% increase in social security benefits is expected. At the same time, economic forecasts of the Federal Bank are being reviewed that account for 3.1% of interest in 2018. In view of the decision made by the Board of Elders recently and the expectations for raises in the currently successful negotiations, it will be a huge challenge to achieve these objectives for the government. That's not going to be easy to say. As for my questions to the secretary of finance, I have given specific suggestions on the implementation of the budget, as previously established. The financial bill explains some changes in expenses between 2017 and 2018, with a projection showing limited spending, how they increase, substitution, maintenance, remuneration and the like; a particular bridge formed between the 2017 and a new budget for 2018. The film is fine, but the dissociation of each bridge within each topic area is very lacking. The gap on page 8. The 136 bill, however, provides a very good overview of key changes in the spending. That's very good. Similar dissensions could be made in a review of key changes to the other members of the bridge, not just the binding expenses, but for all and especially within each topic field. This is where the main problem is, the disintegration is very small. It is very difficult to get the figures that are included in the publication in the amount shown in the topic series. It is very difficult then to understand the context of things, what is changing, and why. Page 142 reviews the focus of a new government and how it is reflected in a bill for financial gain. It shows that the original charge will be $14.3 billion. higher than expected in financial programmes. Some people will probably notice that there is not a number that was quoted earlier, and I said 14.4. That number comes from page 18. 106 and Tables on page 20. 105. Then these 600 million are added, which come from the government as well as probably both. I'm sure there's some close-up error, I hope so at least, but 100 million. K. does not have a small amount, and no doubt it is interested in knowing whether there is an extra 100 million or in either direction. The government's focus is said to explain more than 12 billion of this increase. The increase is so explained by the wording ◯ Modified budgets due to a number of budgets that were not available for the implementation of financial programmes and unless the change of 13.6 billion dollars, certainly the focus of the new government was not in place during the development of financial programmes, but the lesson of which may be more consistent with the next time a financial plan is being developed in such a way that it is possible to negotiate the framework. It needs to be so that regardless of whether any combination is possible, even if the election becomes an election, the more financial agendas may be applied when it comes to budgeting, although the priorities in the language may vary. It's just a matter of time. On page 180 of the budget bill it is said that a presentation of policies for financial issues should ensure the General Information on key lines and focus. The following words are used here in the hand - to - hand language area of the highest management board, which receives a three - page financial discussion in a financial program allowing the president to express the policy of the topic field: The Ministry's forward vision of the Ministry of Presidency continues to develop and cohesion between professional and beneficial activities of the state, the Minister's Committees, national economics and legislation. The aims and actions of the Ministry of Presidency at the Ministry's Community Policy and will be published in accordance with the laws on public finances. Obviously, there is not much to discuss about this topic field's policy in the political treatment of a financial program. The policy simply says the Ministry of Presidency is going to do what it's supposed to do. Of course, other grammatical areas do a little better in this regard, main lines, and emphasis, but then fail the test in something else. For example, a common measure of success in foreign languages is by permission of a president: ▪ It's hard to measure, and it's based on self - esteem. This is not something that the General can take into consideration when it comes to budgeting, whether the right amount of money is being put on a project, whether or not to get caught. After all, the council will now have to compare policies set out in financial programs and in financial matters. If it all fits, budgets should be relatively quick. For example, if financial and financial programs were to be produced, the same would be the case. on a computer-reading template, such as a resolution adopted at the General Assembly, it would even be possible to make a program compare and display the anomalies. If the sentence was open and computerized, interested ones might even produce something interesting from the data. I'd also like to intervene in environmental and climate-related issues. After a discussion with the highest, I'd like to know. Environment Minister of the Committee, where our ambition lies in the standards of the carbon values we are going to achieve. Are we going to reach the Paris targets that actually take only 1/4 of carbon dioxide emissions on the land compared with the information we've seen? 3/4 were due to national deportation and thus to the body. But this time we are to reach a noncarbon object in the year 2040. Then I'd like to ask if it's a non-carbon object, based on the Paris Convention or what we're actually giving up in the carbon dioxide. If we are going to reach the limits of the total noncarbonization of a third of the Paris Convention, are we going to use stopping and binding on the implementation of the country to fix it or solve that problem? According to the Paris Convention, we must not do that to fulfill it. It matters a little bit what our standards are when we say that we are going to be non-carbon in the year 2040, to what is reasonable, according to the 2030 criteria. It's really easy, if we can get the 2030 criteria, stop the deportation of the country, or tie back some of the wetlands to finish the rest of what Paris targets put on us, that's not a problem. It's a question of how big a promise this is about reaching a non-carbon object in 2040, and I would be interested in knowing the answer to it. Where's our ambition? I'm just going to review some of the changes made here, on the one hand, in which committees talk about focusing on education, health, and transport in the available budget. Here, perhaps a health minister should notice. Indeed, it can be said that more than anything else is involved, but the reality is that there is going to be no more. Education is being done very well, beyond what was required at the zero point. Well, I'll tell you, there's some sort of emphasis going on there, and I like it. On the other hand, being reasonable impels us to speak only about health matters. Hospital building is being built, and the cost of living is quite high and will even increase in the next budget. Debates are still being paid off, or at least goes into debt of high interest with less interest. Regarding the health system: Based on the reviews and coverage of the committee, we are turning away from our whole health system as a result of the year's rest. Then I find it difficult to see that the health - care directors and hospitals who arrived described their problems, and the changes in the greater part were quite possible - from a discussion we received, since the data are not completely accurate - health care, health care, and the Hospital in Akureyri. There is talk of business; perhaps something more about equipment purchases and things. But nothing has been accomplished with the business problem the Landsaholic brought to us on the committee. There, evidently, it was chosen to meet health - care standards elsewhere than the Land Hospital. In view of what we were able to do last year, I find that remarkable. Then we made the promise, in this chair, that if the Lands hospital and health system came to pieces, the General would fix it. We would not wear a minus, at least 0's, so any class that promised the injection of the medical system could start with at least zero. But considering this, we're going in a minus. Maybe we can get the zero, but it's going down a little minus. This is what I call attention to when it comes to health issues. I don't quite understand what the General Assembly did for this year, what promises were made there. A number of people were sent to a financial committee asking for grants to various projects. More than nearly all requests were agreed if they were not too high; a sort of mixed in a bag where any candy that wasn't too big fell into the bag. Frustrated farms, e.g. One of the first players to send in a brief on the budget bill and asked for 110 million. K. to extend a portyard. A transport program was to finance this project, but there is no budget in the budget. Frustrated areas at least insist on preparing the project and asking that the funds of state come to the preparatory part of the project with their contribution. Sadly, the project was too expensive to be included in the bag. In my opinion, the application was well supported by a transport program, so I'll make adjustments to the budget for the preparation part of this project that will be funded for 110 million. K. which is missing. I'll tell you, I used to live in Gravitors, and someone could count this ball, but it's all set down. Although I think it's one of the most beautiful places in the country, it's been a long time since I lived there, 24 years. You're always a suspect - all right, I'm an Icelander, I've lived in the South Pacific too, and there's a village crew and here in town and abroad and all over the country, and I'm having a good time. Other corrections include 1.7 billion for the increase of disability and a dollar to the degree of disability, 2.7 billion for Hospital Hospitals ▪ to ensure operating, sales, and maintenance and building up of molded houses, 300 million. K. In the Akureyri hospital, to ensure business, equipment, and preparation for a new unit, and 12 billion dollars. In new buildings to sell and rent to the inhabitants, in form of stock making into apartment loans, etc. by the Subcommittee of the Subcommittee. 560 million. K. in a nursing home, for it is a download, a waiting list program; it is simply not a place in nursing homes, and it must be focused on domestic nursing projects while the nursing home is being built. And then 300 million. K. to ensure the management ground of the county bodies. Finally: I hope there is a time when the Council can normally win financial and financial schemes, without time pressure and government crisis, which I define as a management or a brand new government with such short notice in this situation. Many of this bill is in the right direction, but it also shows which categories are making it. While the bill calls attention to the fact that the income stocks living under the most large part of a government budget are sensitive to cooling in the economy, there is no attempt to achieve a wide range of revenues for government funds. In fact, such measures could lead to a reduction in the pressures of the largest income companies. At the very least, a broader tax base would give the State more room to adjust them to or according to the state of the economy, so to fluctuate. Modern tools are vast and fragile. In spite of the circumstances and perhaps further the circumstances in which these funds are handled, I expect the government to be particularly helpful when it comes to financing, to apply the laws on public finances, and to take the initiative to do better, as well as to listen to the smaller parts of the situation when we are exposed to anxiety. Nothing has more to do with suspicion than worry alone. It simply adds to the concern that Bill Watterson so brilliantly expressed in his comic of Calvin and Hobbes, where Calvin says that at times he may be worried and unable to sleep, in the dark he finds a terrible event that cannot be prevented and that it is particularly difficult to face such thoughts with courage in cartoon clothes. That's why Hobbes sleeps naked. So I recommend that the government comply with Hobbes' advice and be concerned with transparency. That refers to the tiger Hobbes, not Thomas Hobbes, ◯by the Way ◯, because Thomas Hobbes is such a monarchy and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u89	Madam President. I'm going to try to answer it as fast as possible. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear was included in his history with the committee's list of these laws. First, I'd like to say that since he was generally discussing the practice around him, following the instructions on public financial matters in such a short period of time, as it were. A senator puts it in his committee party so that there may be no one to blame in the circumstances, but the danger is that mistakes will be made, that this is being resolved without the fact that we are both following the Constitutional rules as well as the rules for public finances. Of course, there is no doubt about it, that the second year in a row, we are giving the same amount of money as soon as we do. When we handled budgets last year with no more political part at the council, it was our word, at least me, that it would be very important that the year be used to review the classes that, in reality, were not allowed to be treated. In view of the fact that it is usually the largest cases of attention, I am calling attention to health issues. A senator spoke of, the big lines of education, transportation, social security, but less time to discuss something much more important, smaller. I can mention, for example, cultural matters that have actually remained unsettled by this second year in a row, so I take it as an example, much because there has been no time for a financial committee to cross them. So there is good reason. In view of this, a senator suggests that a budgetary committee will start for the past spring, even though it is contrary, in order to cover the budget better. I'd also like to mention that I believe that it is important to be followed in the past... during the previous council, forgive, Madam President, and, in fact, how the Congress's financial authority deals with new laws on public finances. [[The president calls.]] I'm only getting a little closer to that in later opposition as well as money to the Ministry of Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u90	A respectable president. This is a short time. We have a government law that tells us how to handle matters here. But as I described, they simply don't expect this situation. This may be part of the problem that we have to fix, in fact, because it could actually happen again, not necessarily now, but for example. After 10 years or 15 years, who knows? One thing I didn't read but it's part of the committee's opinion that following a good review of the situation right now in the spring months for financing work, because we don't know exactly what we're going to agree on, I thought it might be normal to use a budget, if it really turns out there's some project or something that might be overrated or wasn't suitable for, or wasn't suitable, and we started using funds to reduce authority to the government. Another factor to point out is how the United States handles budgets - if I don't go on very little knowledge about it in a very rough form - that this is a much more dramatic aspect, it can be adjusted much more, even though it is a clear view of the future, more adjustments can be made. Although they do not do so, I might suggest that perhaps there is something like this built up in our case that some of our reserves are to be taken into consideration. But as described earlier in 1st. The financial policy is also a little hard on us as well as on the financial agenda. We may need to be a little more Indian while we're getting the job better on a more fixed form while we're studying.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u91	Madam President. What I'd so like to add, and that was interesting as hell. A senator was saying, of course, that we must not associate with government laws, such as some physical laws. Here we need to be aware of what we are. One senator said, we need to be more dramatic, we need to be able to deal with situations that we have not expected in public financial laws, which are merely expected to be chosen at the same time, always when finance policy is submitted at the same time. Of course, that is not the reality. Of course, it is important that we be aware of this. It comes to what I wanted to discuss earlier that it is very important that the budget of a new term will review the work established by the Commission and the Commission at the last council that was actually involved in the Senate funds administration within this new legal framework on public finances that is important to protect. Then I want to say it because of what. A senator mentioned money to the Ministry of Presidency, and I hope the members of the Ministry have made this clear at a meeting of the legal committee. Of course, there's new projects, such as statistics involving the Habitat matter and turning toward pay statistics for the labour market, but also other statistics that I think we need to make a significant effort in various areas. I'd like to give up the affairs of the National Security Council that hear under the Ministry of Presidency that has not been financed so far. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to mention the fact that the money conference that was supposed to be due this year, her divorce will be drawn up in the middle of the next year, just so I'll readily explain the major points of this 105 million coin that is the new money coming in to the head of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] But I have no more time here to explain this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u92	A respectable president. There's a lot of good stuff here. We definitely needed more time for this. First of all, the policy I talked about earlier, getting her to the rest, how the World Council comes to the financial agenda is something we need to talk about better. Can adjustments in priorities or other tasks be made, or can you see the list or something similar? Regarding the physical laws, that's exactly what I'm trying to establish. However, the rules are to be the natural laws we follow. We have a problem where we don't make the rules so that they can fit in sufficiently with the real world. Our laws of nature are applying the rules we set for ourselves. I think it's really important to think about it. In terms of the box, this old frame, the 2017 ramp, is incredibly upset with the whole tour of the budget and has been that because I'm so far. This is a huge discussion we're going to have here way too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u93	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator very much for this good but also a difficult question. So, first of all, to say that the Ministry is, as everyone knows, a strategy of action is made, but what is being added now is a guide on the non-carbons. The truth is, I can't answer it. A senator is fully aware of this, as the situation is now, since he has not started the work on the guide. We assume that by means of the establishment of the climate Council, it will be one of the first and main functions of the Council to examine the matter carefully. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is referring, but he does not want to tell me about this matter until experts have considered it through the climate council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u94	A respectable president. I understand, we're working our policy, and we'll be precise in this regard. But I also asked: " Where are my ambitions? What's the frame we put ourselves on? What will be the climax, and what is our limit to minimum? What is the minimum value of saying that we are going to be non-carbon in the year 2040? Of course, our pride should be there. What, though, is realistic? It's not binding, it's not binding. We're trying to find out where our ambition is so that we can continue our conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u95	V.E.G. President. I think there's a line where it's at. A senator mentioned, i.e. On the one hand, about what the Paris Convention is about. However, there is some upper limit associated with the emissions derived from land use taking into account the conditions of the climate Treaty requiring reporting. It needs to be examined in this context, but I think the limit is about that. there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u96	Thank you very much. The secretary of the environment is very much concerned with the answers. I'd like to add a moment of reflection to the end that may be relevant to a transport minister such as to a environmental minister. Much of the country's implementation is going to be at road construction. Would it not, then, be normal for the government's sake, the government's government, on the basis of these actions, that the level of carbon is balanced, in any way in terms of land use, though there will be a lot of carbon emissions at the repair site? That there might be an upper limit. I'd like to ask that question for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A nice tour by a senator. Some of the answers to that question as a matter of course. A senator rolls up here, and I've already given some answers. In fact, we are greatly improving the standards we usually look at, to form as a proportion of GDP, the scale used on international levels, i.e. we add from 7.7% in the current year to 8.5 next year. When I say to them, I mean, General, I agree to the General's grant of a new bill by altering it. There is a significant change between years and there may be expectations in many parts of the system to do even better. I believe all requests for more money are well-founded. I don't think there's much evidence left in the country. I think that there is a good lack of logic in the Akureyri Hospital and the Land Hospital, with health care in the capital area, with all the agencies that are available to the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, I believe that the step being taken here is considerable and in order to build a common understanding of the fact that we want to move forward. This is done together in a national financial programme, where we are also evaluating whether the expenses given by the public counsel to health care will all be used for the general work. To be sure of this, we need to map out our ministry, and we need to do so together with these agents. At that job, I plan to leave right after next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u98	A respectable president. The new hospital is a large part of health - care donations and will be even bigger in the next year. I remember, if I take the numbers correctly, about 2.7 billion should now and over 9 billion next year, so there is a huge rise in health care, for maintenance and building up. It has been a little draught over the past few decades, so there is only a cumulative need to be met. We can take that part with us. That part should always be okay. He's not okay yet. We are definitely making up for a debt. I prefer to ask about a business or service there. Because of the promises we made at the council last year, I would like to ask what position the health - care system will be at the end of this year, based on the very small information we have received. We got these in a very short time, and it's hard to take care of them. Can we make a promise similar to that we made here in the last place, to give up at least our business, and not to serve in a minus, or by cutback?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u99	A respectable president. I believe there is a general weakness with regard to Icelandic health, welfare and education matters how weak our numbers are. I think it's weak. Actually, we need a much stronger economy on welfare and health issues in Iceland to know where we are and to know where to attend and how fast to do it. I can't answer why. A senator exactly where we will be at the end of the year. But I know there's an 8.2% increase between the years for Land Hospital. There is an 8.6% increase in the number of health care institutions outside the country. And at the Hospital in Akureyri, which leans on this comparison, there is a 6% increase. There's a significantly greater increase in the business programme than we've seen between the years we've seen from now on, so this bill is going to be a law, so we're moving forward. In many respects, however, we lack greater and better grounds to know what foundation we are on. [[The president calls.]] My opinion is that health matters should be such a class that they can endure government exchange without going through serious wastes. We are to agree on that part of the Community covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u100	A respectable president. We may not know what the situation will be at the end of the year. But I also asked if we could promise that the situation would not be a restricted service. I miss the answer to my question because I felt that it was clear, if any of the spare funds were willing to go up there. Well, maybe business is more successful and the future will be good. With their last year's experience, they had nothing to do with us at the Land Hospital when they showed up with hospital management numbers. Giving a lot of suspense about what happened during the year, it seems that the managers, at least the ones they gave us, are doing very well. There's really little difference, 0.1%, something like that. There is no need to doubt what the hospital's spokesmen tell us about that matter. Based on that information, I would have wanted to know that the aim was not to return in memory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u101	Madam President. We'll be talking about budgets until 2018, 2nd. I'm primarily going to discuss the work practices and the economics of these budgets and work around them and policy, or what I think is a significant lack of long-term policy or perspective in the key issues of state funds. Let's start with the work: It's been mentioned more often than most others, in discussions about budgeting, how difficult the time has been. That's right, he's really tight. We can be sure that we will have to be able to cooperate with the laws on public financial matters, even if time is short - lived even if it is chosen in the fall that is now taking place for the second time. The context shows that some of our neighbors, e.g. in the North countries, vote in the fall, and still work according to the framework of funding. It simply receives a budget bill of the last government and works with it and gives a good time to shape the policy and vision of a new government. I only watch a few simple shows. First, it's clear that this budget violates current financial policy. So it does not make any difference if a new financial policy has been introduced. It hasn't been discussed yet. She hasn't been approved. She hasn't been given the necessary reviews. I don't think we should minimize the importance of financialism as such. There, a new government will shape its vision of the terms and their frames for the next five years, allowing the discussion of economic influence on government matters and the evaluation of outsiders, such as financial advisers. We do not have a basis for this discussion of these laws. This is simply the start of high - speed splicing, and that is the primary line of cross-cutting. The same is true of financial planning. Once again, these funds are against the current financial agenda. I have full respect for it and understand that it is not the financial plan of this government. But that is the financial program in force. When there is a problem with financing, you just look at the financial program as a key factor in the implementation of a series of problems, the main spending focus on the budget, and you get plenty of time to work; then, on the basis of that plan, you put out budgets for each year. It shapes the overall view of individual subjects. This is simply used in a variety of ways, regardless of current financial policies or current financial agendas. It must be said at the moment that I find a new government so great in these matters that it is as if it did not believe that it will last forever to win its own financial policy with its own financial programme and give them the ideal period to achieve its goals. To be honest, the importance of the government is extremely small. Then the cost of home living will be forgotten because of irresponsibility in government. That means bigger interest. This means higher household interest costs. We should also keep that in mind when discussing these matters. There is little that weighs more in the purse than their interest costs. That is why it is very important to keep the money in check. Let us only consider the economic effect of the budget: This is an increase in the original budget of the state of the budget of 66 billion from year to year, when the budget is thought to be 2017, compared to budgetary support as it is under changing forms. It's almost 10% of the original budget budget under the budget of 2017. As we look at the preceding two years, the total budget of the state's budget is being increased by an increase of between 120 and 130 billion, less than 20% in two years. Here I think there's good reason to stop and ask: Are we going too far? When governments were at their time criticized for their irresponsibly irresponsibleness, they spoke of destroying the foam, as it was then called, in a permanent budget, that would not be a permanent outcome for those earnings. I think there is good reason to look at the situation so much better now, and no particular reason for pessimism or to worry about major economic events in the coming losses, it does not change that the least lack of interest in the economy greatly increases the financial expenses due to increased spending, e.g. Necessary insurance. Other factors, these so - called rhythms of the state's budget, also work in there, including. as a result of a marked decrease in income where homes contract with permanent investment costs, automobile purchases, electrical equipment, and so forth. In this respect, it's often pretty fast for sponsors. This has taught us how to do so. Therefore, it is extremely important to be careful now at the height of the economy, to be careful. I don't think that's what they're doing. I repeat again that we are doing this in spite of the warnings of all the parties who give themselves for having a special opinion on the economic role of government, whether we look at the World Bank ofment, the Secret Bank, the main stakeholders here, such as the Common Association or the Business Association, the Business Council. Even the industrial organizations criticize the priorities of this financial bill, and this could continue to be counted. We haven't had any evaluation of the economic effects of this bill. We have not considered financial counsel to be a fundamental factor that criticized the budget and financial policy of the last government, which, however, was considerably more conservative than this, for the lack of self - control. This is a serious matter. I think we have to go over the legal structure around public finance laws, and we're going to go over our heads to develop a better way of working. The money that came into the council this week also does not bear the changed method of witnessing. Once again, there are many additional expenditures that were not unexpected or unpredictable but that are primarily a sign that are being used for more income supplies of the state's funds than were expected to be expected to polish out a number of cost groups that are convenient for disposal, such as new contracts to farmers who would have been very normal to include in the budget of 2018 - since it is expected to be the first and foremost support that will fall into which will be paid in that year. These are factors we must look to. I think we must also look to it, if we really are going to improve the practice, that it is at this exact point that we have to place very heavy down payments, far beyond the traditional subsidies, because this is exactly the scope here for it. We need to carry over 70 billion interest costs. We have 900 billion total debts of state funds and 600 billion pensions. If we can't make a big difference in these debts and commitments at this point in the economy, we'll certainly be unable when we're under pressure. The weight of 70 billion is a heavy burden for the state's funds to carry in the past. It is very difficult to live up to the basic needs of society at the same time that we are paying 70 billion interest each year. That's why we have to make this work. We have to let off that painlessness, very mild to speak, that government funds are always fired to make it more productive at any given time. Since there was no room for construction, it was not even room to live up to the foundation of the welfare system. Improvements needed to be hampered, health care cut into bone, and so on, not to mention the surgical cuts, e.g. in necessary transportation. It would have been ideal for us to use the then great economic crisis to attack it. So when we're good again, we'll do it exactly like last time, we'll make lots of money and spend it in the box, so that the blanks will always grow as we grow. Now we're at the height of the economy. It is true that in view of a greater part of the budget, less economic growth is expected in the next year than this year, but less than 5% of the interest rate is very high in historical terms above 7% in interest during the past year. If not in these circumstances, when should we show consideration in the financial matters? Only then can the need for a clearer view in these key issues. I've previously said that I don't make a comment, and actually celebrate the priorities of the expenditures found in government policy. As with the last government, and, in fact, a large part, it applies to the latter part of that terms, to the preceding government, health and welfare priorities, education and now transport. That's fine. These are the ones that we all want to focus on and to strengthen and strengthen. But increasing expenses cannot be a goal in themselves. Surely we need to ask ourselves, " What does this money cost us? ' We must set clear standards of what we want to do, for example. to your health system, what you want to do. In itself, increasing health costs to 11% of national production is not an objective. It is appropriate to consider, because this figure is so often referred to in this context, that it is one of the northern countries, which has 11% of the health - care products, that is Sweden, with a somewhat higher public payment rate than we have, or that about 2% to 1.5% here, the other North countries are in the range of 103.510.5% of domestic product. Compared to the number as the highest. The health minister mentioned just before that, the next year's expenses will be 8.5%, and then 1.5% more in public payment, which means we're going to hit 10% of the country's produce that's good; we're going to make fine progress to this level. But then we need to keep in mind that we are a somewhat younger people than we are with other northern countries that we compare with. The vast majority of the cost of medical care is due in our upper years, which means that we should have a less expensive health system compared to the rest of the North countries as a proportion of land production. We know this is going to change. We are growing old, and we need room to cope with these expenses. But, you might well expect, according to the rules for health care, if I'm right, to about 65% of the medical bills fall to date after 65 years of age or so. This is an enormous clump of error, but it is not unusual that when health problems begin to increase the health costs. We need them most, and of course we want it to be powerful and good for us. However, the nation is rapidly growing old in the next 10 to 15 years. As a result, the health - system cost will inevitably increase substantially, as is likely to be 1101.5% of land production, just to meet that demographic trend. There is evidence to suggest that the health system can do much better; that waste is in what we need to deal with. Then I'm not saying that the health - care manager is not doing his best or that he is not doing well in his business. I'm simply saying, the government's policy and the highest health authorities lack. This has repeatedly been pointed out. At that point, surgeon surgeon general has repeatedly dismissed. A recent McKinsey report points out that there is very little concern about the overall health system, that it works as a unit, not in today's perception. We must watch the interaction between health care, specialists, hospital service, and aging services. We're not doing enough on these things. I'm sorry, but I feel that there is a great lack of logic in support of the highest level. Health Minister and the New Government Declaration that this is being addressed, that we go to this job, and do what we have to do to make better progress and reduce waste management. It does not solve health problems by itself, adding to the budget. That's what a surgeon himself has said repeatedly. We have to deal with the healthcare system as well. In these matters, we must accept government policy. This task is urgent, but we know that the health - care cost will continue to grow. It's definitely inevitable. Hence, it is vital that we consider carefully its efficiency and its organization too. The same could be said of our educational system. Here again, the goal for averages is to reach an average of the OECD countries, reaching the average international average. All right. I support our building up here as much a good education system as we can. It's very important. It is one of the most important features in the knowledge community of the subject. We all agree on that. When it comes to the effectiveness of this same system, I feel that a vision of how to improve its results is a big problem. I'd like to point out one relatively simple example. We've agreed to shortening high school by one year, about 25% of what used to be. That means that students in our high school system will have a significant decrease in the number in the years to come. It's not just because of the reduction of school, it's because the years you're going through are less now than it was in the past decade or so. So it is clear that students will reduce by a few thousand in the high school system; one year is about 4,500 individuals. So there must be a marked decrease in the number of students. Then you wonder how we're going to make sure that we're getting more efficient in the education system while there's a much reduction in this trend, for this must call for a change of organization in our education system. Surely the possibility of uniting schools is not to be mentioned in order to benefit from the benefits that this may bring. Then we must look to the simple part that we are likely to have a considerably larger home than we need in the high school system today. How are we going to get the management there? I'm not worried about the number of teachers, that's where the problem's been. The reduction in the number of students will likely help us to cope with the problem that is due to a lack of teachers in the country. I'm really worried that this show can never be discussed. We have a recent discussion on the possible mechanization of the High School of Versailles and the School of Technology, all of which went wrong. I look to it and say, " Isn't this just what needs to happen? ' It may well be better for preparation and leading, etc., these are always very delicate matters, but it is also necessary to attack on these things. Once again, we need to look for an expansion, a certain proportion of national production or averages in other countries, which cannot be a goal in itself. It is the quality of our ministry that we are building up that is of utmost importance. When we look e.g. on education is of utmost importance, and it has been called on by high school and university levels that governments have a clearer view of what education they want to build in the country, what education is needed, how to finance it. We know, for example. That the technical education that we would so much like to stress is far more expensive for each student than for the book study. However, the government does not seem to be willing to finance it when it comes to that. In fact, I heard a certain university driver say, "The government simply hand over money to the university and say, " Do what you want. ' We have no idea what academic policy you have. We have no idea whether you're going to put it all together in the social science department or if you're going to build a health field or an science department, etc. Of course, this has to be corrected. The government we are here must have a much stronger opinion of where the need is and be prepared to place the funds for the system needed and adapt the algorithms at both high school and university levels to ensure its progress. It's the only way we're going to make it work. Only about transport. I am well aware that transport improvements are urgent throughout the country, especially by two long-term budgets in the press and by the country's major highways, including the U.S. ... becauseoftheextendage of travel services. But I think, like anywhere else, we also need to consider that our race is best with forethought. It's still so, in the highlight of the economy, that we get an extremely poor offer at the level of construction. The government simply gets quite a bit more for its crowns when there is a calmer economy than when it is at the height of tension. Therefore, it is important not to be building more projects than is necessary at this time period in the economy and also to consider that there is just room to do good in the economy. In this way, you can work only against the transition for a change and get more for public money. All of this is very important. In itself, I'm not going to make very strong comments to the individual financial groups, nor am I going to make the adjustments that the greater part has made here. In all the basics, it seems to me that the changes are quite consistent with the main priorities of the state's budget, i.e. Health, welfare, and transportation continue to be a focus on the health, health, and transportation. I then support my priorities wholeheartedly, but I warn of the maintenance of the financial situation, which is simply too small at this point, so we need to take a very careful approach to the earth. It is quite clear, and I felt very convincing to the health institutions of the country for the fact that they had been left behind in the structure of the health system and that there was a great need to strengthen them. I'm all for it. There is a great need to improve health care worldwide. This has repeatedly been pointed out. We need to add access to specialised services in the country, we need to strengthen our health care needs in the country. Here we are taking the step in that direction. That's fine. That, however, is one change and, in fact, another thing we have been especially opposed to. We're not following an increase in fiscal tax. It's a very basic currency. Money income is a very fluctuated income, reflecting also the risk of earning an investment in employment. Therefore, we cannot support an increase in fiscal taxes. It is good, though, that, at the same time, there is an increase in cash markets for individuals so that at least these increases are not in the majority of the population. It is worth considering, however, that capital income is the source of a currency in that sense for them to look very easily out of the country, such as the debate, in politics in particular, has actually reflected in the past phases. So it is very important that we have a competitive capital and capital environment in our neighboring countries. There we must face the simple fact that capital taxes are much smaller than those of our neighbors. And as mentioned earlier, we usually have a much higher level of inflation and thus are taxing real - life growth considerably more than that in our neighboring countries. I trust that, in a review of funded funds, these views will be taken into account and that it would be very reasonable in the context of looking to the possible interaction of growth reforms and capital taxes, i.e. that, instead of the current support, simply detractors from capital income and general tax for homes, recovery from mortgage debt. It is clear that if there are any tax reductions in the coming years - e.g. Almost everyone promised if not all political parties cut out insurance before elections - of course, there is room for that in the state's affairs. The very purpose of my knowledge is that debt is quickly paid down, that we use a good year's ride now to create space for tax doctors in time. Briefly on the well - being focus of the budget bill, it is about child development and development: it is, as stated in the case of the highest degree. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to revise these systems. That work was started on the last government. I expect the committee involved in this operation to render any suggestions soon. That's a very important review. It was suggested, and I hear no more than the emphasis remains the same, especially looking to how these systems can serve better the most efficient people in society. But the fact is that it will not help these people next year that these systems are being revised. The fact is, it seems to have been a targeted policy here for years to let the reference thresholds and property limits of these systems remain nonexistent, despite all the changes here, collapse, obscenity, etc., even the reduction of property targets, as in case of interest. This means that these systems are no longer serving the assigned groups. They come in a way that is of little value. So I think it is very important to take action now to give them a small bite even if that is all there is. Real value was the cost of the state funds in 2008 about 9.5 billion for the growth reform system, aim to become 4 billion next year, and will probably be less; the case has been, for example. as in this year's budget, the cost of interest is less than expected. This system is vanishing. That's why we recommended that property limits rise by 5 billion. K. That would have cost a government fund about 1.3 billion a year. As an example, we suggested that we cancel or cancel the plan to extend the will to the car property intended to be about 1.5 billion a year. I don't think it's a good priority to subsidize a business that seems to be in fine flora, but not to be ready to raise a small priority at the growth reform system in support of the busiest members in the community. I don't think that's a special priority in my life. Finally, at a vote on a so - called bandorm this morning, I found it a bit boring to see that the relatively harmless changes made by Pirata, which was in place of a special provisional law on the market markets. We've been rolling these vacation limits forward to an temporary one year each for about a decade. This would not have cost the state funds for a single crown, but in some way would have increased the presence of this group. In that case, it would be a system that could be relied on for a future or until the end of a multimedia revision. I don't quite understand why in the world that suggestion could not be accepted. She wasn't paid for the government fund. The only purpose was to slightly increase the visuality of this vulnerable group in terms of housekeeping. I hope that Pirate's adjustment proposal appears again before the 3rd. and I hope that it will be otherwise with the government's attitude toward it. It is not necessary to be sensitive to the fact that practical suggestions and inaccessible, such as in this case, come from the lesser part of the budget. That's a nice suggestion. I hope to the highest. The social and equal minister will try to see that this will be done and that the more part, if that is what it takes to do, will make these adjustments in its own way because it's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u102	A respectable president. As we have seen, it is the clear policy of this government to improve and strengthen the educational systems of the country. We're about to take a substantial scholarship as far as high school is concerned. Hv. One senator noted that we are somewhat shy about talking about change, and we are not going to take advantage of the opportunity, that is just not true. But that's right. A senator points out that significant changes have been taking place by shortening the high school stage. Therefore, we will review how we can use it to further strengthen the system. One of our priorities is to strengthen the level of industry and engineering. Even now, we are making plans to strengthen the development of a cover - up program in the Breiðholti School, Southnes University, and other places. This will be done immediately next year. In addition, we want to take into account what has been going on in other parts of the country around us. Of course, it's a little strange when we see that the graduates in Norway are far more graduates than in Iceland. This is one of the things I want to review much better and see how we can get more of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u103	Thank you very much. Secretary of education the counter, Madam President. Of course, I respect that. Minister's just here. Of course, it's only natural that people have to think about things in those circumstances, and they have time to come up with some sort of faulty ideas because I feel that we talk about it all too often in a bit of foam. So I say for the first time that much work has been done in the Ministry of Education and Education in general regarding the future education policies. I think I'd say, "Don't take too long on policy. It seems that it is the major failure of governments in general to spend two to three years on white books or some kind of policy, so there is no time to act. Even previous governments can be used entirely in that regard, so more often than not, they offer excellent suggestions. It may be nice, then, to put such a work first and make quick decisions about what is at its height. Minister wants to do and not do. But I would also encourage the highest. Ministers in general to contribute greatly to the development of the education system to the discussion with the job and the labour market. There is an education system in the economy that also needs to be able to cooperate with the public educational systems. There are some billions of people who run to that system every year from their commercial situation directly. About making use of it. It is likely the future when we look to the fourth industrial revolution. I hope to the highest. Ministers use it, and I hope that it favors united schools as well as increasing the economics of high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u104	A respectable president. I agree that it is very important to promote all cooperation and policy in education. I think that when we're going over whether to combine school, we especially need to make a move. Of course we will. I agree that now is a good time, and especially when we've gone through the big changes in the shortening process. Shared terms are about the shortening process, and whether it will produce the results that men thought it would produce. I believe that the problem is way too short to get us somehow to evaluate it at this stage. But I still think it's important that we use at least the advantages that come with it. It's quite clear, and it's been discussed at high school that the savings that's been due to this is not in the system, it's really in there. We are also adding to it and making financial contributions for each student.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u105	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Education for these answers. I think we're far too sensitive when it comes to talking openly about the importance of efficiency and management. For financial committees, the county authorities came as an example and complained about a huge financial shortage that seemed real, but it may not have been surprising when the opening point of the cohesion of the EICs was that they could not reduce the number of offices and the staff could not be reduced. Of course, that is the largest cost to most public institutions. It is then put into it only by political formulas that no harm is allowed, that unity is not an option. Of course, the same is true in education. When we tend to dissuade students by about a quarter of schools, each school becomes quite less economical, and it must call for the obvious, that we combine schools to respond to it and make full use of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u106	A respectable president. I would like to have a chance to have long - term contact with the dog. A member of the health - care congregation because I think it is very important that we in some way improve in the standards we would like to set in order to make decisions about the next steps. That's a good tip that's gonna show up in a case. A senator, that the expenses of a government fund to the system do not work alone as a measure, but the standards are much more and more complex. I mention to form quality, performance, staff and human resources, as well as human resources. Man - made issues may be the biggest problem in the Icelandic health system right now. I also mention the situation of access to services. It's coming into it like a dog. A senator speaks of an equal situation in the case of a resident. What's top of my mind right now is what we've been watching, i.e. The development of the Icelandic health system that has never been made one big decision. It is the fact that there is a certain contrast between the public system and, on the other hand, like an automatic flow out of state funds to certain major aspects of the health system without any direct decision being made. There are some smaller decisions that have led us to them. What really is the basis for the change we now make, some of which have been called insignificant, while others called all too much, depending on the direction in which people speak, is the will to show that we want to strengthen the inner resources of the public system. This involves both a political declaration and an attitude toward the public system. I'd love to hear it. A senator in regard to that aspect, especially because of which direction he comes politically, would we not be able to agree here at the council to reverse into a public health - care application?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u107	Madam President. Thank you very much. The counter-regulated minister of health care. It is true that the standards are not just financial, and they are not just permanent in simple context. Human resources, work environment, staff, and personnel need to be looked at in medical institutions, as are anywhere else. Without the resources, most of these services are of little value. As you look at the environment that the Landspians have gone through, for example. Over the past few years, it is absolutely clear that there has been an extremely massive feat there during the period when the hospital's operating was at a critical point. In terms of that as the highest. A minister refers to a reference to expert doctors, or perhaps primarily specialists, but I agree with the highest degree. Minister. Although we certainly have a different view of the role that a private operation can play in the health system, I think it can play a particular part of a business, the state must also be a much better buyer of the service it buys from such a system. There can't be some self-employment action. You must not negotiate with expert physicians, such as negotiations with unions. Like any public service employee on the market, these companies are being purchased for services that are independent of the workers, whether we look for road construction, study tools, or full - time service. Of course, we are expected to make very much and rich demands for the quality of our ministry and especially for the expense of it. It must be the main purpose of such a business arrangement that the government is making the direct profit of receiving a more favorable service from this one than it might buy or...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u108	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. This is of utmost importance that we make decisions on the terms of the public interest services that we buy after incidents and that are consistent with global interests and, in particular, with long-term health policies and the interaction of the individual aspects of the system. I'm glad we agree on that because, as I've been here before, I believe, that it's long time that we've agreed on a common basis that our good health system can trust and create a long future without having to put on a great transformation after each election. Because I am now in the fun of finding a common surface between us, the one standing here and the other. Senator, I would like to ask, "What is his position to further tempt it than is now reducing the cost of patient participation in the system,'i.e. that we normally pay more healthy ones and that we protect the sick from paying off our own pockets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u109	Madam President. It's a very interesting question from the highest. Secretary of health. I think the first step at least must be that we must all want to see a common payment system here, regardless of what medical systems we look for. Then we must look to some kind of common roof because we can be struggling with complex credulity. It is medical expenses, hospital and medical costs, and it can be psychological cost or all three of them at once. I think it must, at least, be the first step in trying to make sure that there's some common roof on these factors that will catch us so that we're not separated from the same values I described earlier. It must be our first job to get our hands on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for a very clear speech. Hv. A senator made a good impression on the national interests of government. He was reviewing the improvement system, which, of course, he knows very well after working as social and equal ministers and the income system. Sometimes when we discuss these matters, it is called automatic fluctuations. Senator. So I put the question into context, I made it clear that the primary expenditures are rising by 66 billion, a similar amount, and between the last budgets. The question is, why? A senator sees some pattern of automatic growth and if there is any difference between it, if it connects with the automatic swing equations, that we are on the top of the economy of 2016 - I know that all the timing in such high-key economic management is opinion or at least a very delicate matter - and the expansion we are looking at right now. Is it more justified, or does it come through a fluctuating situation than it did a year ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. More than a year ago, there is a billion - year - old growth in primary expenses. What also disappoints us is that we managed to make the best peace at the council a year ago, despite the lack of majority leadership, to work within the framework of that established financial policy. We all agreed to put it as the first roof of our spending fees. All of us then wanted to see more expenses but with different emphasis. In the end, it created a measure of reconciliation to hold the cover to some degree on the existing great pressure. He's always very great at this time. Of course, it is quite true that it is very difficult to run a government fund with 40 or 50 billion rests on budgets at a time like this because there is a demand for additional expenses throughout society. They are all well - founded and can be understood. However, we need clear guidelines, clear rules, and procedures in order to protect the European Commission and Congress from the high budget pressure. We talk about a decrease in insurance fee or possible space and watch that the cost of employment is considerably higher today, but it has to be to finance the unemployment that we now live in. When it increases again, it is probably a very reasonable requirement for the state funds to finance it without raising the insurance bill, for it is, in fact, to say that the default insurance fund is in the state's budget right now. They've only been spent on other things. This is the case with automatic fluctuation, a drop in certain expenses, and a significant increase in income would be observed in these circumstances, including of personal consumption. That is why it is very important to be careful at this point of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u112	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the answers. Senator. I came into it last year's answer. A senator knows very well the improving systems, and he is likely to have a problem. A senator began to consider what solutions were in view regarding changes in disability. V.E.G. The government has preached cooperation and agreement with the Organization of Microbe and Development and other stakeholders in the same way. What solutions look sharp. A senator in that context? They're big systems, and they're bound to require increased expenditures. I can totally agree with that. Senator. It's time. It's a project that must be carried out. The other thing about interest improvements. We've gotten into it here. Don't we need to start thinking about the growth process instead of raising our property goals, because that just means spending more money?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u113	Madam President. I just agree with what. A senator for an increase in attribute targets means an increase in expenses. However, we need to take up a long - term political discussion on the support of housing support we want to provide for the low income. I felt very urgent, and we set off a committee on a review of these systems in the past government because of the importance of entering into that situation. But most of our neighbors - and I think it's a common thing - provide housing support to all the most income groups. It's necessary. We have a social apartment system, we have housing improvements, and then we have growth improvements. I don't think that supporting systems should distinguish between renting and renting. All of this needs to be wrapped around the future, but it also needs to be ensured that the systems used apply to the groups to which they are holding on while we are revising them, because the people are in the payment crisis. I'm sorry, I don't have time for the meditation I had about the disability relief system, but I'd love to have a conversation with you. That's what a senator will do later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u114	A respectable president. It was part of the agreement that the Ministers would be here for class. I'm very grateful for the counsellors who have been here and have participated in the discussion. But when I spoke earlier, I called for several ministers to answer, but three came from the one I called, and I even gave five chances of coming here to answer me because I had something to check on their lawsuits. So obviously not everyone is paying attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u115	A respectable president. I'm not making much comments when the Ministers don't listen to me. I can get it out of my system in another way. But I thank you for the fine discussions that have been here today and I just want to say that we will discuss the second year in a series of budgets under very special circumstances. This time, however, is part of Congress, but it certainly has a narrow time frame. I can totally agree with many of the people who have spoken here today, like a what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and others, how this really affects the work of the legal committee, to promote a financial bill. But with regard to the views that are tore up in this discussion, I can, of course, reconcile myself with very many items, whatever their categories are involved. I may first want to discuss the economic situation, the introduction and responsibility that we have as a financial committee and as the General Assembly in the budget. We are making up a great deal of the valuable things that come into existence in the community. For the people of the country, for the houses, for the companies. What a responsibility it is to take all this money and put the money on account of that responsibility so that we do not cause any more harm than we amend our career! I'm not going to hide because in recent years, I feel that we have gone very far in increasing expenses. In view of a greater proportion of the legal committee, we have increased our expenses over two years by about 125 billion dollars. approximately 18%. It takes a lot of valuable things to live up to so much expense money. Although we're returning the budget for this discussion in a fine place, considering the contribution of financial policies, I can't help but say that we have to stop and think about where we're headed. I was in the last session of the September 14, General Assembly, and I discussed the matter in 1st. About a budget bill. The government they offered lost more than that on the night. On the other hand, in preparing and preparing this budget bill, which I find to be a great achievement that has been put together in such a short time by a new government, it is indeed a change of direction from the financial bill we discussed them. This is not to say that there has been no significant change in government policy. It is very tangible in the financial bill we're discussing here and possibly also in the changes made by more of the legal committee. We are looking to the health, education, environment, and the development of the Allegorium. These are the guards in the focus of the new section. It's really like that, or unfortunately, I might say, that in the elections, they were the sort who spoke for the greatest wealth gains not to fish much in the campaign. That is the reality we face. Thus, it cannot be said that this change in policy is unnatural. We are, in part, funding the high cost we are raising here by going on the rest of the government fund has had or possibly on the financial bill that appeared earlier in the fall. But I think the politics of our discussion here may be primarily about how we're going to protect this position and then how we're going to use this great amount of money. This is an enormous amount of money we add here, 51 billion on increased expenses, of which 17.3 billion are wages and compensation. It is 34 billion qualified to add to the project and investments. This is, in particular, the nation's increase in prosperity, in an increase in taxes. It's picked up the rest and also picked up the fact that we are lowering government interest costs, and it may have become the main reversal of government funds in recent months, how much effort we have made in these activities, and now change between 1 and 2. this financial bill reflects, among other things, that the next year's growth costs are still being dropped by action to reduce the debt of the state. Only with the majority of the legal committees providing a large proportion. First, I'd like to say that since we are discussing the budgets here being raised, which may also reflect that we have failed to contain the growth in the current year, and I'm just going to declare responsibility for me, which was then the chairman of a budgetary committee during the elected period, that we have failed to maintain our place on that subject. For example, they have raised the cost of medication by 35%, which simply tells us that it was not the maintenance we intended to carry out the emphasis on the underlying issues. As a result of the sentence of these financial contributions, a respected president, we must discuss the work of the legal committee and the secretary of finance, and those involved in the follow-up of budget and budgets each year, trying to learn and do better in these matters. We will discuss this in particular in our majority interest, and we also expect new ministers and ministers to sit down in the Ministry and look at their groups of advisers and think where they can do better and if they have to do anything that was done last year. I think it would be a very healthy and important job for the Minister to spend some time checking out their assignments and wondering if they need to do exactly what was done last year and see if they can't do it more effectively. We make a few changes between discussions. Perhaps an unusually few could be said, for the economic forecasts that have mainly changed the budget of discussions in recent years were presented when the bill was submitted. We are taking extra money from health institutions in the country. We're not making it exactly, but we have a good partnership with the highest level. A health minister in the material field where it will also be of her resources and museum members will contribute funds to support them. I believe that it is of utmost importance that we look to it during the year or when we take care of this legal committee and, as a result, how we maintain the funds and, in particular, the institutions that have been successful in business in recent years. This is especially what I wanted to state, a respectable president, in this discussion. It is utterly annoying that health institutions that have indeed mastered their business are the least of all, and I am not minimizing the problems of the institutions that have difficulty keeping themselves within the budget. I'm going to make a note of the report that has made to this proposal more of the legal committee. Of course, most of it is served, not by government officials. This is just an initial problem, and no more words about it. We also deal with nurses' business problems, and we remember a greater part of the budget board, and a financial committee will follow that in cooperation with the Supreme Court. Health Ministers to work more on these issues, more on those topics. We know that it is vital that we put our arms at a higher level. I know that health institutions had hopes for some improvements in the topic of conversation, but that is not the case, at least not at the disposal of more of the legal committee. But there are many assignments that we can certainly take on. For the sake of the time, I'm not going to reenact many of the rest of the budget proposals, but I'm just saying that there are certain things that call, and I refer to the committee's opinion otherwise if they want to learn about it, but only state that from committees, the focus of the legal committees on various projects she's had on for many years, such as Art's work, Team and Light, that of course, we're going to the Social Ministers to consider, at last to bring money back to their important projects for lasting prospects. I'm sorry, but I can't, in a short talk as extensive as I would have wanted to be about this big step, the big changes that are going on here, and it certainly was called after this campaign, and it was the real conclusion of the election and the basis for the administrative community that has just begun here. This remarkable partnership between the left and the right. It's only natural that these priorities are reflected in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u116	A respectable president. Hv. A senator used the phrase "not to cause more harm " to him. Then I ask: Isn't it damaging not to finance a two-way transport program? Specific expectations for transportation have been developed. Is it a prerequisite for health care to talk about the informed decision that we now make, returning the land hospital to a minus university hospital? Given all the factors and all the information we have now, as silent as they are in this short period of time, we are expected to return the land hospital to the minus. Don't you think it'll hurt any more? Hv. One senator said that the government's focus was to add 50 billion. I've heard something about 66 billion before in my discussion. But it says in the budget that the government's focus is adding 12 billion, now 12, 6 billion after the change, because I see that 600 million of the change is a part of the government, according to a letter given to the budget by financial and economic ministers. Better be clear. Then I'd like to add another part of the discussion, I think I need to find out when the prime minister is here. I'll catch up with you later. It's damaging not to finance a transport plan. I think we need to admit that the policy of transportation was really just an election campaign just before the 2016 election. Clearly, what was agreed upon is completely unrealistic if the plan cannot be financed for two years in a row. And there's damage to returning the Land Hospital to minus. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u117	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer from the end. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Yes, some things he must deal with the prime minister. When I talk about damage, I'm referring to the damage an irresponsible state's budget can cause by excessive spending increases, by going to the head of a state fund, and by blowing up abduction into rapid interest. It's the damage I'm referring to. It is a challenge to manage a high interest level at this time and, in fact, have good prospects for a short period of time, even if the growth is greatly reduced afterward from the next year on. The design of economic growth also involves things we should always be busy with. There are also certain signs of danger. It is largely in my mind that this way, how the government's budget affects the economy in this country and what failures we can make in this hall, which is primarily affecting the homes of the country. Of these words. A member of the U.S. National Hospital was now able to present himself at a meeting. The legislature board with the National Hospital that we personally cannot tell exactly what the year's business is going to be. It was well stated there that some balance of museums on the hands of the Ministry will be done. It is premature to discuss the damage we caused the hospital because it is not sufficiently funded in this regard. The focus of most parts, as I mentioned in my talk, is also looking toward the land area and financing the health centers around the country, since the health system is more natural than the Landstics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u118	Thank you. Senator. Certainly, land may not be the whole medical hospital, its health - care provider, its services for the whole country, and the country is closer to all of them. It plays everything. I understand what you're saying. A senator who will arrange for various collections, etc. and that the land hospital is not to be returned in the minus, not in the cornerway, this year. As for the damage we're talking about here, I agree perfectly with that. Senator. But the damage is about priorities. So it is chosen and prioritized by the funds available to avoid causing economic damage by not amplifying a transport programme. That is a resolution by Generalis, a guidance to the government on what to do. It is simply the government's choice not to provide them with a transport strategy, to understand the possible Lands Hospital in a minus business because of the information we received from the Committee. If it's not damage, I don't know what it is. I'm not necessarily asking for more expenses, I'm asking for priorities, even though the point that most people in the country set their priorities before the medical survey is, at least, not to slanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u119	Mr. President. The damage can naturally be defined in a number of ways. The responsibility of the directors of each institution is primarily to stay within the budget required for them. Second, I can refer only to what was said at the Department of Health, and why. A senator with fine experience sitting on a financial committee listened as I did, as he described it, along with the representatives of the National Hospital College Hospital, as well as with the representatives of certain pots and tasks, including. were approved here a year ago, decisions made a year ago were not made. It is absolutely impossible to say at this point what will be the final outcome of this important hospital, which I do not share and join with. A senator says that's what he is. Then, according to their opinion, when 600 million are missing a business, it may not be a major project, but there is a reason to go through it, since another 600 million are in context of a very large amount of money. In terms of the transport program, it is natural that there would have been great damage if only in one day we had blown into that transport plan based on economics. I'm not going to disqualify myself acknowledging that I'm one of those who adopted that transport program in the event of a few elections since then. Of course, it was not a good practice and not in the spirit of the reactions we now wish to pursue what we still call a new set of government laws but are no longer new. We, however, have never been able to take an entire circle into their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u120	A respectable president. I'm wondering about how it was. A senator and, in effect, the Independence Party generally view their role when it comes to the growing expenses of state funds and taxes. I always feel like I'm hearing that taxes should be reduced and government spending should be limited. Then it sounds like I'm talking at a speech or something. A senator said that in recent years, government spending has increased so much in the past when the Independence Party has been in control - for several weeks with left greens, including other categories. Now we have reached the top of the economy, as appears to be undisputed. Then we'll have to take care of this. If I recall correctly, the Independence Party during the 2013 season was to boast a great deal about having dropped taxes. The story I hear -- if I put myself in town by voters' shoes, you hear things in this room - the image that I think the Independence Party is trying to reveal by itself, it's because it's reduced taxes and increased the expenditures of this expansion period after a crash. Then I wonder when. A senator or the Independence Party in general - I don't know how much of it is a fine party. A senator can talk - would raise taxes in order to control the economy of an industrial ideologies, which appear to be widely accepted there, in order to control the rise. The wording I'm hearing is that the squad was reducing taxes and raising expenses. I don't feel that this is quite right with the theory that I fundamentally believe in, i.e. That, at the top of the economy, we need to hold our hand even if we are going down. I don't get it. I'd like to what. A senator will explain to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u121	A respectable president. Thank you, too, for that counter-reference. I can now see why this fine senator, Mr. Hrafn Gunnarsson, is not in the Independence Party; he would not have understood a core in the Independence Party, and I'm sorry. What is the role of the Independence Party? I realize that the senator values the role of the party, even though it is the role of the members of the community, their conduct in politics, that those who make a high priority for their use of valuables, along with the drive, a strong society, and social and social responsibilities, are highly esteemed. Indeed, we have increased expenses. We have been able to do so because, in the wake of the nation's increase in profits, the tax markets have paid more money. Of course, it should not be an independent goal to spend all incomes as economic growth and to expand your community's activities for financial gain. It should also be our job to shovel into the barns until easy years to gather. We're also supposed to do that. Hv. A senator asks whether to raise taxes when under pressure again, but we always start by making more of the available resources and trying to make better use of them - and that is true in contractions as in interest of interest - or in setting priorities before we take steps to increase taxes considerably.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u122	A respectable president. I may be a crazy man, but it always sounds like the same line, regardless of how practical it is. I believe we should deal with the government's taxes and expenses based on the way we consider our economy to be developing and clearly from the state's position rather than from the religious institutions around whether taxes should be high or low, or whether the government's expenses should be so or queer. I'm looking at this from another point of view. Piratar and I took in the campaign the budget bill that had been submitted in October and changed it in a way that harmonizes with our ideas about what was desirable for the next step. Again and again, I reiterate that it was suggestions rather than promises, for it is, in my general opinion, an election code but an irresponsible phenomenon. But I can't hear what's going on. The speaker's speech I would think would be based on the ideologies I heard in his speech. I may be stupid again. But I think this line is missing: When it's a fiasco, we should raise our taxes. There's not enough line into the whole mess. I always think it's because we're supposed to lower taxes, always because we're supposed to control government spending. I don't think the theory that I hear from independents in general is entirely in line with the idea that we should put these issues into context with the entire economy and all of that. I have a certain understanding of this, a lot of fact. Because then there's an election fight, and what happens is that we're set up in front of a group of people, and they're asked, "Would you like to lower the insurance?" Everyone says, "Yes, I want to turn down my insurance bill." Would you like to turn up the sink for a travel service? Everyone says, "No, I don't want to raise the sink in a travel service. Then we come into this hall and cover the budget, and there is often much conflict between what appears there and what was said in a campaign. Perhaps to a large degree, it is normal for us to do something about our religion or simply according to what we want. But I love all that light as a dog. A senator can throw up on this subject because even though I'm not a member of the Independence Party, I want to understand what the ideologies are behind decisions made by that fine category and, in fact, all classes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u123	A respectable president. I truly respect those views. Senator. Of course. That's just where we're picking up. In principle, I agree that when economic growth is not the right time to lower taxes, but the Independence Party has not, in the recent increase, this high growth rate, run a very strong tax reduction policy, although we are interested in changing the composition of various taxes, while we are maintaining ablation of tax increases, continuing to reevaluate the tax system and to understand and increase its effectiveness and use. There is one tax base that I'm deeply concerned about right now and that I couldn't reach out for in my speech, that's, for example. Fishing fees. I look up to a small modeling company in my district, so I refer to what I'm familiar with, who's having a very difficult time, because of the high fishing costs they're paying this year. This is an example of a tax product that we need to examine in spite of economic growth. Because taxes can be very damaging to certain functions or can damage a job. That is our constant assignment. Therefore, it is important to constantly talk about decreases in taxes. But our responsibility is, of course, not to act in such a way as to cause harm, as I mentioned in my talk earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u124	Mr. President. No, sir. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, you're not out in the field. However, that was why. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson, who spoke of increased government spending and warned of an irresponsible government policy, which is another reason I call this budget irresponsible and unacceptable. This involves spending more than 20 billion at the same time, as expenses increase almost the same amount by walking on income evasion to the top of the economy. The result is predictable, including Those mentioned by the late U.S. Marshal in his review of the bill, by permission of a president: Surely, then, the growth and survival of the crown would have been higher. Instead of living for the bitter years, oil is poured on the fire, and the instability that has played us so hard will probably get back. Second, it is not the smallest attempt to encounter increasing inequities in the community or to improve the quality of society in the worst - rated society in these financial institutions. This, in fact, is what the Bible says. in the ASI centre of resolution, with permission of Mr. President: ▪ The population between the rich and the poor is increasing. In an ASI economic study of the development of the tax burden on remuneration in the past 20 years, it is clear that there has been an increase in the tax burden of remuneration and the greater increase with less income. How disappointing it is, then, that these trends are not addressed in the budget but, on the contrary, continued on the same path by reducing expenses for child development, growth reform, and housing! The level of taxes will continue to increase, as the equality of the tax system is further reduced. Furthermore, the conclusion that this budget is not enough to lay the basis for consultation and cooperation with the labour market partners on economic and social stability. It's easy to agree with those words, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the difference in society through the tax system is not addressed, although the fact is obvious that 5% of the richest people have as much pure possessions as the other 95%, of course, calls for action. Now I'm going to review the most serious section of the bill, but also the proposed changes in the Union that are involved in increasing the equation and supporting the lasses and preventing damage to health care. There are no additional reserves in child support, interest improvements, housing allowances, maternity stores, or housing issues. So the union suggests that 5 billion will be put into the child and growth reform system and 2 billion will be put into general housing budgets. Both the older citizen and the nationalist organization express great disappointment by means of the bill. So the union suggests that the elderly will be replaced by 1.5 billion others. We would like to be more supportive of those who live in the lowest terms, remembering that 40% of all the elderly do not achieve the progressive goals and pensions of those who live alone not even 250,000. In a month, which is far below 300,000 dollars. which everyone agrees on on days when the elderly are due. So the United States wants 3 billion to go into disability. That money must be used to add the lowest benefits and to the promises that all political parties have made for many years to cut off a dollar to the limit. While something is only added and is now being added to the left green, the health - care policy of the health system continues. The fact that all health officials who came to the medical committee declared great dissatisfaction speaks for themselves. The hospital still needs nearly 3 billion just to stay gone, and unchanged the hospital service will get worse. In the country, health institutions receive less than half of what they requested so that their function could be guaranteed. A nursing home will have a direct reduction between years of age. Will more people than I remember that the advance party advertised the importance of building more nursing homes and supporting health care worldwide? ' Hence, the union suggests that 3 billion people go to the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, 500 million to the medical institutions, and 400 million to the medical facility. High school still has considerable financial problems. That's why the Conspiracy wants to spend twice as much as the government proposes, or 400 million. K. In addition. Then the United States wants to contribute a 50% increase in new funding provided by the government and the financiers to transport, or a billion dollars. Again, I review the promise of progress and left greenness that a more advanced transport plan needs to be met. In fact, the bill is far from that goal. It reminds me that the Independence Party promised 100 billion on the infrastructure that was to be taken from banks and exploits, and God knows what. No. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, simply owes the country an explanation of this financial bill. Finally, the Conspiracy wants to protect $1 billion. During a major campaign against sexual violence and the growing number of police officers, but only one fifth of this amount is found in the budget. We can no longer live in the sexual abuse program that takes two or three years to attend because of the ill - treatment of the police. Governments must simply respond more strongly. Finally, the Conspiracy for Christmas is going to invite the General to vote for the release of the book tax and will be presented tonight. I encourage members of Congress to study and support the changes made by the United States. Mr. President. In fact, it sucks that there is no clear indication that a left category will sit on the throne of this government. The print of left greens is only very limited, and the bill shows almost completely postponed in the administration process. They reached a 2% increase from the last money they called starving policy. It seems that the help of advance was not exaggerated; progress, which, in fact, repeatedly showed the left cheek of the campaign, thought for a moment that the head of the party was going to bring him back to Hermannsson's time, the same old right class he's been in the past year. It is not enough to write policy and promise before elections. At the input of such a bill as this, the real emphasis on the classes is shown. It reveals what kind of society they want to build for their people, what exchanges are to be made, what income they earn, and how taxes are imposed on each individual. And from weightliness and priorities, the classes will eventually be judged. What are they? The government immediately found 665 million to solve the problems of sheep farmers, but six thousand children in the country have nothing. There's nothing to talk about making it right in the spring with a new financial plan. First, in the community, weak groups will have to wait another year for their illness, and secondly, the government covenant promises a further tax reduction. So there is no evidence to suggest that the foundation will be balanced or settled in the community. The problem will simply be referred to the next government. Also, making excuses for the needed compromises does not work. Left green and forward were willing to cooperate with the Independence Party and must only be responsible. In fact, the highest rate was given. The prime minister, in his first debate, felt that he should judge the left green from the compromise. By permission of Mr. President: ▪ It has been said that it is easy to judge politicians from their ideals, but more important is the person who agrees with their compromises. All right. What did that compromise involve? The independent party got its old tax policy, left green got a little in the wood, nothing to fight against roughness, but three ministers and paintings down to the Presidency. Even in climates that were to be the flagship of the government covenant, there is far too little to handle. The last government focused on green taxes, but now the fall from double them. The march is twice as long as the last government planned. This will eliminate 2 billion jars. which is made up of 20 million to climate. That's not credible, Mr. President. That's disappointing. A new government simply starts off badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u125	A respectable president. It all sounds really good. A senator talks about, at least, by my knowledge. In particular, I noticed a book tax deduction, something that I highly believe is necessary for the Icelandic tongue to survive out of this century, if we realize that it will cost money, whether in taxing what is taxed or simply paying for what we have to pay. I wondered because I haven't yet considered the suggestions of the United States, which I will, of course, do as much as possible sometime tonight, whether all the ideas as possible. A senator was identified as an expense. Whether they could be installed as an example of how it was possible to do so and what would be the effect on the overall supply of the State Fund, etc. I ask because it is often said in a campaign of not placing 100 billion here or there, as memorable came from the Independence Party of his time when he promised, or did not promise such things as in advertising; 100 billion in the interior. These are the slogans that sometimes seem to work. The Piratar and I began to put in a table bill, we asked for office and comments, we asked for suggestions, etc. The restoration took a similar course, although I had never seen a tablet bill from them, but they tried to do something similar. - I see how you react. A senator and another senator who nominates the obvious answer is yes to the question. Then I wonder: Is it not something that groups should be able to work together that when it comes to working on the proposals, trying to adjust the proposals so that it is clear to you when speaking in all these so - called promises, what are the exact effects on the government and the taxpayers in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u126	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a cost. Some of them we've received from the Ministry of Economics. Something else we've calculated for ourselves. In the circumstances that we now live in, during the expansion of a high economic pace, there are two things that can be done responsible, that are not going to any government fees, don't add to the business. It's just not available because all classes praised the necessary infrastructure into things that are going down into the health system, education system, in the elderly, in micro-terrestrials, etc. The other way is by living up to his promises but by making money for them, we need to increase our taxes and earn our income somewhere. I just respect those who say, "I don't want to go that way. However, they respond by being more careful in paying their government fees. We're not going to accept now that we're going to sit on the couch, open the refrigerator, pick up everything we have from it, do nothing to make money, but let it land on the next government. I recall again the comments of the National Bank that this irresponsible government policy will lead to higher growth, will result in greater inflation. This is irresponsible, and it should have been enough left green to say: No, we do not trust to sign this government contract if we are not allowed to follow it in financial terms, as we promised before elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u127	A respectable president. I cut it by what I did. A senator, and I will understand his suggestion so that it will not change the circulation of the state's funds from the proposals proposed by the Continental if I understand why. A senator, which I'm not always sure here in this fine piece of music, is the case. Now I shall admit that our election proposals Pirata -- I reiterate suggestions, not promises -- assumed that the leftover of state funds would be reduced, some criticized it, perhaps correctly. In line with the expectations of some institutions who give high attention to these materials, we assumed that there would be a lack of relaxation in the economy over the next few years. That's why we wanted to give up on something. I must admit that I find it enjoyable to hear that particular mention, i.e. The balance of state funds, in the context of going into all the procedures that are taking place. A senator will talk about it, for they must call for expenses and receive them as soon as possible. A senator points out to call for an increase in taxes. In case of a moment. A senator would be first to say whether I am correct in knowing that the amount of cash paid is the same, despite these changes made by the United States. Second, what taxes they are, if I'm right, understood by the United States to be raised, or by what means they will be paid to pay for these extra expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u128	Mr. President. We would have wanted to do more if we'd settled down in the government. We would've thought we'd have to pay more government fees, but we would have earned enough money to do so. by means of a wealth tax, by stressing that we could get more out of our resources, by getting money from travel services, and then we could continue for a long time. The 18 billion we're suggesting here tonight that if there's a fee, it's exactly the same as the government's giving of their taxpayers, including. by tourists, by posting the rise in carbon money proposed by the last government, so if the government had just missed all the money we're getting, we could have done the things we're doing now. That's what we're pointing at. But as I said at the outset, we feel irresponsible now that we're going to just go for the rest of the money, especially when men are about to start on lasting expenses. Do people think that medical, high school, university, is anything that can end in 2019 or 2020? No, it's here to stay. It needs to be a year from now. And to do that, you need to make more permanent money. We know the Icelandic economy and economic history quite well enough to know that we are not always at the top of the economy. We're like the Icelandic waves, and we're going to a deep valley, and we're going to the top of the waves. For one thing, we need to try to change it and sail calmer waters. But while we're in this situation, it's irresponsible to just rip out the freezer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u129	V.E.G. President. I have a rather simple question for what? A senator who disagrees very much with him. I'm glad he realized it here at the end that we're not always at the top, and the expansion that goes on this week before the next year will not always be so great. My question to why. A senator is simple. He's here all the time referred to the after-up of income and giving in to income, which he accuses this government of doing. Is it in his dictionary to lower taxes on working people, to go deeper into the pockets of the people of the country? He says we're here to give up on income, but that means just wanting to raise taxes on working people in the country. I think it's a message to the civilian, that we're just thinking about the state, and that expenses are all good. Of course, they do better things. But I'd love to hear it. A senator also speaks of some uses of the money better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u130	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator says that the money is definitely the best way to use it. I like it when wording and graphic phrases are used, such as stretching deep into my pocket with a common wage. You see, that is what we were not going to do. We've been talking about protecting low-and-politants. But since when do tourists pay to come here? They're driving on the roads. They're trampling down nature, it's okay that they only pay for it. Of course, they also give us money. I'm not sure that the average wage in this country runs the big rentals here that have been working on a adaptation process for 10 years now. No, Mr. President, that's not the point of stretching into the pockets of ordinary people. That is exactly what it means to reach out to those who have enough money, who can give up just a little bit more, and have money, and even money fall into the depths of those who have suffered a lack of money for years and decades. Inefficiency is still increasing. That's what we were going to do. That's what I thought we agreed on left green. In the beginning, I made it clear that I respect views that would be opposed to me if there was some kind of mess, if it was so that they would say, "It's not income, so we're on top of the economy, and we don't raise expenses at the same time. That's not what they're doing. They're being increased and taken out of the escape. That's what we don't know about. We want to raise our income exactly as our left - green neighbors wanted to do with us before elections but suddenly stopped wanting to do it in November and December of this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u131	V.E.G. President. Yes, we now have relatively high taxes on the land when we compare ourselves with many other nations. Already, we are going a lot into these controversial pockets of people. Hv. A senator says that he just wants to go deeper and deeper. That's a point of view. He will give more to those who pass through the land, who shall be weighed only on those who dwell in the land. Hv. A senator comes up with all kinds of ideas about raising taxes. But you also wonder after discussing this financial bill and the last: When is it enough? Is there ever enough? Is it some billion extra, 1 or 2, that will lead to what? A senator will say, "Yeah, that's great? No, I don't think so. There will always be a request for more expenses. Even though we provide far more billions of people than we had a few weeks ago, it is far from enough to go. A senator. That's what this debate is about, that it will never be enough, and people need to be opposed, even though we put enormous extra resources in every corner and build up in a way that we won't see done in the future because, like hell, we don't see done in the future. A senator said, we won't always be on top. But now we're going to spend a lot of money on wood and be very proud of this financial bill. But there will never be enough for that. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u132	Mr. President. What's the deal? A senator doing when she's at the bottom of the freezer box, and there's only two cigarettes left, but they still have to run the systems? What, then, is she going to do? Will she go fishing? No, the Independence Party and the Left Green, and the Convergence disagrees basically on the purpose of the tax system. At least this has been so until this week. [[Up front.]] The independent party views the tax system as a necessary part of the minimum income raise. It's a point of view I respect, but I don't agree with it. Astrologers and Left Greens have at least To date, the tax system is not only for income but also for the balance of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u133	When is it enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u134	Well, if you're talking about this billion, it's okay to take it only if someone has 8 billion outside. But we are going to take away those who are able to do so and kindly ask them to contribute more to the drinking that they most want. Tourists who come here can do more. I repeat, sir. A senator, that there is no way to go into any pockets, that is to put into the pockets of those who are poor, those who cannot give Christmas to their children, those who cannot afford to go to the store and buy what they want. That's what we want to do. There are older ones, poor adults, and young children. We believe that by strengthening the growth reform system, the child - saving system, the housing reform system, by means of such transfer routes, we are using the most powerful and quickest way to level the ideals and conditions of those who do not share the joys of Christmas as we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u135	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the budget of the government's left green, forwarding party and independence party. I'd like to start by saying that it's fun to have this exchange today. They are extremely different, just as expected and normal. I say just as it is, many things I would like to have different things as you would like to have in life, but in itself I'm okay with what's presented here. The government will add 15 billion to the government's expenses in relation to the budget itself laid down in September. So there can be no more than a considerable change and a considerable amount of expenses. In addition, a legal committee is added until we are. Over the two weeks, we've reached at least 1% a week, because some talk a lot in percent. I think this improvement is a clear history of priorities and aspects of a new government whether it concerns health, transportation, or education. Notably, a clear reaction to improvements in sexual abuses where we set off, to the reporting of the information system, some 236 million to support this project. The government's just starting. It is quite clear that there is high expectations for the government, but at the same time, it was always clear that nothing could ever be done in anything that was expected in the first financial bill, for it never existed. It is often spoken here as if it were meant to be in the first bill said to be in the campaign. This is not realistic, not to us as it is to others. These 15 billion people of the country care whether they are in their daily lives or not. Health care is being improved, which is important to all of us. The education system is being added, and it matters to all of us as well. Children receive child - welfare benefits, older people, and disabilityrs first enjoy lower health - system payment, and so all the public will enjoy much more during the season. We are also strengthening our health in the country. It's our common value. It's the first steps. The financial committee added 400 million more discussions about health care in the country as well as 50 million in the Akureyri Hospital. I don't think it's possible to overlook the new law that they're showing that we're giving a kickback on important issues that we've so said we're going to show even more clearly in the next financial programme. It is clear that there could never be a requirement, even though we had more time, to meet all the ideas that existed in the campaign, because I don't think anyone ever stood up to us. The focus on well - being is clear; the health system of 13 billion from the last budget, 8 billion from what has been spoken, and the budget was submitted in the fall. It is not possible to assume that the bill had been agreed on unchanged, with either expenses or incomes intended for it. Child support goes up a billion dollars from last budget bill. This is mainly a matter of changing the set of revenues. I think we're turning away from the path that had gone, i.e. The benefits don't go with those who want them. Do I like the standards higher? Yes, I sure would like to make them taller. But there are, of course, more crowns in the pocket of children with this. There's a lot of talk here about the housing. I think we need to accept the government's housing support for a counter-impliatory review so that he serves even more fully the groups we want him to serve, especially the needy and the young. What has been done over the past few years cannot truly be said. Therefore, it is important that we consider this further rather than having some hasty decisions here and now, we have talked very much about the need to change it. We are not to make hasty decisions about any great political force at any given time; instead, we should try to win it more in common and crosspolitic terms so that they remain between governments, but we have concluded that, unfortunately, there is too much change in government. Of course, this is little time to talk about much. They're being added to college, as we have seen here. High school is also strengthened, which is important. I don't think that it's important to attend both school levels and make sure they can work. It is therefore a pleasure to know that the head of the University of Iceland has described a special pleasure with the bill. Then we have to remember the University of Akureyri and do even better there. It was pleasant news that came from the Ministry, which included: has been handled by the university, which came up in December with regard to its housing issues. I just want to come on one thing that has not been brought on here, with respect to the county and public work across the scattered areas. I feel that we need to stress the importance of supporting and sticking to the laws set up when the office was set apart. The same can be said for law enforcement. We've got to get going. We've got to get out of the police program and start working on it, and then we're going to make a big deal of it. I think there's a great need for that. In the modern travel agency, and in the case of the carbon tax laid half as much as what was expected in the last bill submitted in the fall, I would like to see a staging analysis. In fact, I want to see them in so much more. Regarding transport, we, the greater part of the budget board, propose in addition to the $755 million budget. Of these, 480 million are on the road through the Valley of Slither, an important security issue that has been a struggle for many years. Second, there are 200 million for improvements in the Grinsavík road as a result of security, as well as extra money for public transport that is needed to reevaluate right now during the New Year's season. We also suggest that 150 million go to Hellisando National Parks, and especially to improve the national nature clinics, all eight, what was expected to be performed by those I believe would be of great importance, since these are jobs in the scattered areas, where there are tasks that might otherwise not be performed. We also place funds on smaller projects that are of great importance to the scattered areas. Because I live in such a place, I can sense how much else it can have. We also place 1st January 1st, next year, a 1st - year - long increase in contributions to home-replacement of microenergy donor, resulting in a change in the development of improvement. They're going to get 280 thousand bucks from the bank and they're gonna buy these without a nuclear pensioner. a month with up-to-date pension. This is an attempt to help others. At the request of the welfare committee for an increase in contribution to the user - controlled personal assistance, we added money, just as the committee requested. It suggests that the rate of the next year's contracts can be increased, and it also emphasizes that those who need to be maintained on a respirator are in first place. A respectable president. I'm talking so fast, I'm halfway here. There are so many things I would like to come to. But I think my colleagues in the greater part have done well with the most economic factors and have been well reviewed today, so I decided to go over the big, even arrogant matters. I think these billions are important to equalize the terms of the country's population. It's not a small amount of money. I am convinced that this first step of a new government will show that in the coming terms of the season, we will put the interests of the public and our joint systems in the first place and strengthen the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u136	A respectable president. Yeah, it's a little bit of a why, and just a little more in some places than it is in other places in this financial bill, some of which are good and not enough. It's a fixed combination in a bag that I used as an antiquated expression tool in my committee of scholarship applications that came to the budget and were approved of more things and it's a little hard to see where they're going to make more money. This worries me about the changes made in the budget committees last year, where certain money was to be taken on transportation and on certain projects, but it was not to be explained in a committee study or other way. I wondered, " How does a minister know where this money should go? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. But I can't agree with him right now. Last year it was exactly that it did not find its way into the text, i.e. Part of what we had planned to do there did not work out. Here, however, are all the assignments that we took in especially, each one of us. Ten million to the Offel, 25 million to the Light, etc. I think it's especially noted here and read how millions share in the road. And here, the museums, the cultural institutions, and the cultural funds. We were particularly careful that it went crazy that year. That was a big deal for us, for we were quick to do so. paritaprevir Last year, Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, had some work to do with the scheme to make it available. This is exactly one of the things I think this financial bill has done very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, this was done very well, and it might be nice to have a special adjustment also, just as an explanation would be so more comfortable to keep it in the same place. What I'm interested in then knowing, since it was so well done, is how the assignment was given. I wondered if it was well done, too. Besides, I'd like to add a comment, but as I said earlier, there are things that are stronger, some better, and some more not quite as well as everybody would like, there is a real lack of two points. It's about housing, we all know what conditions are in the housing market. The housing support, it's just not to be found. And innovation, which is extremely important right now. There was much talk about the fourth industrial revolution in the campaign and the importance of education and innovation thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u139	A respectable president. It was more and less, so the chairman of the Committee accepted all the strong applications that were received and supported by reason. They were listed in the system. I think what came before that time when we were working it was more and less all gone in. Then we had to have it so that it could not be fully met. Instead, we tried to put it in so that most people could get it. I totally agree that I'd wanted to see more money in innovation and research. We need to take a very close look at this and make sure that we do the work, for that is the fourth industrial revolution. But I think university is well funded and can, of course, do such work. That doesn't rule out anything. There is, of course, money in innovation, even though they may not be as great as we would like them to be. Then again, there's another matter. It can be added for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u140	Mr. President. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote a talk that may well be 100 days old today: But what did they call for the last election? It was urgent that as early as the national industry, it was time to spit heavily into and strengthen the foundation of the public ministry. That's what all those words said. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir just 100 days ago. Now, it has been observed that the greater part is only adding more than 2% of injections to this bill compared to the previous bill. Second, in this talk, there is a bill. At one time, a senator criticized a thin 13th. I want to ask you why. Senator: When is a thin thirteenth and when is not? If you add 2.2% to a thin thirteenth, it's no longer thin, by the way. A senator? Why do we not see this massive injection? A senator called in this hall just 100 days ago? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I know these words well, and do not depart from them. We're building a foundation. We may not be strengthening him like a man's dog. A senator wants to do and suggest, but we're sponsoring it about 15 billion, and then we're adding to a financial committee. I don't compromise with those words, but I don't agree with what they say here that it doesn't matter. It's just 2.2%. Hv. A senator suggests 18 billion, we propose 15, plus the improvements we have already proposed, so I think that we are now drawing close in many ways. Then, of course, the question is, How do we split it? There is no time for everything here to be fulfilled. I don't think it would have happened if I did. A senator would have been in the government because we only got 29% together in the election, unfortunately. We probably could not have earned them as we would have liked to, for we would not have had more support, no matter how much he would have been composed. I'm sorry, I say again and again because I know we have a common problem, and we're trying to help get them going.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u142	A respectable president. What we are doing in the United States is simply to offer suggestions as easily as possible. A senator would have supported a hundred days ago, but he would not do today for some strange reason. I would like to quote in the same speech, by permission of the president: The government is maintaining poverty through its actions in this bill to a large percentage of this group. Here's why. A senator talking about the elderly and the desperate and criticizing the budget of a former government, which is changing to a very small extent today. That bill maintained poverty for the elderly and the poor. Well, already it's a good time. A senator has become a governor, changing the bill by 2.2%, has he not been maintaining poverty anymore? He doesn't keep much water, he's talking left green about that there's no chance of doing more. As we have noted, there are revenues in this community that we should attack to meet our demands and wishes. A senator stood on the table just 100 days ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u143	Mr. President. As mentioned here in the Government Treaty, a candidate and exercise aid have requested to have a conversation with the government on how best to improve the systems on which their livelihood is built. I think it's more wise than to take some action that we're not sure is best. I would have wanted to do more. I won't hide it. But as I said to him, "what?" A senator will not agree with all members of the council on which ways to deal with them, as is the case in the income process. Has it, for example. asked all the groups who were involved in a second administrative arrangement whether they are ready to add a wealth tax? I'm not sure that's the way it is. Or are they willing to raise the resource costs on the seabed? I'm not sure. That's where we agree. We're good to go. [[The president calls.]] To say that I don't support this today - I'm in a government business, which involves a certain responsibility, such as the case. A senator knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u144	Mr. President. It is often harder to face the previous statements when it comes to the responsibility. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to several things that have been identified in its policy series and in its own declarations during the past few years. First: Making adjustments to the current financial programme since spring went wrong. A senator stresss that income would become a significant increase in expenses as well, but it would be increased to improve the maintenance of the state's budget. In the context of my section, a high priority was put on it and talked about increasing the share of the state's budget by 0.5% of GDP during the first years of financial programmes, from 1.5% to 2%. Now there's a pack of whales. The head of a major body and the result is 1.2% of GDP. I would like to ask what would cause this conversion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him. It's not hard to face what you've said. Like what? A senator knows the reality of decisions at any given time. I don't think I've ever been so amazing that I can't change my mind or back out of what I've said. We need to be careful. I agree with that, and I've been speaking for sure that we should be careful and keep the rest in order. However, I have also said, as more people in this room, that when the situation is as if we've been facing all too long, we need to start by, and, in my opinion, should have started, to improve the interior and to do better than I've felt I've been. I would have wanted to earn money in a way that I didn't have so far. I don't think it can be excluded. Not at all. But now the conclusion is that both can be done; in spite of reduced maintenance levels, we can still live with it, at least this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u146	A respectable president. It is at the councilman's office to hear that the standards for maintenance are the way they are, a convenient standard, but may be replaced when other interests are at stake. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator to other things. This refers to the need to reevaluate the improving systems. They are not helping people next year when they are severely cutting down the growth reform system and the child - welfare system. How is that compatible with a course of action? A senator? And the same with the carbon bill as a wave. A senator has been very involved, he has spoken for a significant increase, but in the administration of this government, the Party is helping to reduce significantly the plans of the former government. When it comes to public interests, it may be helpful to keep in mind about the aforementioned, reforming systems that can be saved in return, e.g. by not extending inaccessances for rentals in order to finance reformation. [[The president calls.]] How does this harmonize with the priority of public interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u147	Mr. President. I thank the senator. True, they do not benefit when something happens later, i.e. Which are appropriate for each occasion. I'd love to do better, but the situation is like what's wrong. A senator noted: When we say that we are about to go down to over 1.2% in the rest of our grief, it is not about to increase the payoff rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u148	You can save back.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u149	True, we can be saved, but it helps us to analyze our actions and methods. I don't think the reform systems necessarily served those we wanted them to have served in the way we wanted them to, i.e. the lazy ones standing and the young people we want to help are the ones we want to help. Regarding the carbon tax, I immediately said to the discussion about carbon tax that I would like to see stage shots about how it landed in different parts of the country. I had all that in mind. [[The president calls.]] He hasn't changed a bit. At any rate, it is clear that my opinion has not changed after going to the other side of the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u150	A respectable president. I'd like to ask about the previous decision of the CREEP Council and the present, if there hasn't been a mistake in the budget, some misbehaviour, a bit lost. 4.7% should have been elevated by 47%. In view of the advice of a dresser, it would be very normal. As a result, it would also be only natural to reimburse this increase, as others have received for a year, for example. The question is, Why on earth is that group always left behind? I would think this 47% would bring it back to you so that most people would be around 300 yards, which should be very easy to implement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I did not participate in the decision of a dresser or a 4.7% rise for micromasks when these decisions were made, but I agree, I think, and all of us, I don't think that anyone in this councilroom will be able to figure that out, in terms of compensation as disability pensioners having to live in miserable. They're way too low. We're supposed to do much better. I hope, though someone may think it's a thin thirteenth, he's coming soon, the 13th, that this conversation will lead to some conclusion that makes the system all better than it is, because it's impossible as it is. Putting a lot of money into a system that's impossible, I don't quite know what it's like. I wouldn't have a problem if it was paid backwards for a year. Why not? There's nothing against it. That's right, they've been waiting too long. I agree with that. I would have liked to do something more and better than we could have done. [[The president calls.]] But I can stand here and convince you why. A senator that is one of our priorities to do better with this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u152	A respectable president. Thank you for that answer. I'm sure we can reset this system and fix it up. But there's something else I want to talk about, and it's a Smokey Way. There were two accidents there this morning, three injured at the hospital. It's the only broad road in the Big Reggavít, and it's not supposed to be in this. That's $2 billion. I'll ask you what needs to be done there so that it will be doubled up and done? How many people have to get hurt? Are they waiting for a fatal accident? What is needed for us to finish the situation? These are small coins in relation to how devastating it can be for people to suffer physically and otherwise, apart from the fact that all passengers from Kefavík go this way. We must ask ourselves, " Why are we finished with this? ' It's a small thing. Why don't we finish this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u153	Thank you. This is for a senator. I agree with him that I think this must be one of the priorities of a transport minister right now that he starts setting up a four-year transport program, and so on, so that it's 12 years old, that it's one of the priorities, because it's absolutely accurate that there's an enormous number. Of course it should have been over, like so many other things. I've been telling you that I came to the council that I feel that I'm going too slow. We should have begun much earlier to put money in these structures, which I'm afraid I haven't felt was done and has not been done. We are faced with this now. That's why this social project has become so big and what we have to do so far that we have to do it in stages. We can't do it all on one board. Of course, there are many reasons. That's exactly what I was thinking this morning when I heard the news that this was one of the things that must be in the next travel program with a minister, since the road is very busy and is becoming very dangerous in relation to traffic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u154	A respectable president. I understood that there was an agreement that ministers would be here to answer questions when they were presented in talks. I'll figure it out. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is the head of the board, but it would be so fun to get next to the speaker's list. 3.m. That's the north side. "Sigmur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I don't know for sure what to do. A senator, but I would love to, if anything, if anything. The Secretary of Economics and Economics would be here to hear him out, at least I can see it coming. It may be unusual for me to be asking for a minister for another senator, but I must say that I find very interesting to listen to their two conversations. A senator and a chief. Minister. I wanted to bring this up and say the word. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who mentioned the same point earlier. I call attention to the fact that this has not yet taken place in a large number of 20133/42016, that people are going to a high level of conference control. I'll make it work and assume it'll do it. But let's put the experience as a warning example.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u155	A very impressive president. I missed the President's reaction to a clue. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson because I would like to have a minister to answer for the policy we are discussing, especially the minister of finance, who, of course, is responsible to other stewards for the budgetary bill. I don't like this bill very much, but it's interesting in some ways. That's interesting, not least because it gives us insight into this government, which we were told is a remarkable government, a remarkable experiment in politics. Actually, I'm not of the opinion that this is a very big government or a remarkable experiment, but much rather normal and almost predictable consequence of the election's outcome, where the three groups, the members of the government, all of them got out of the election badly, on the other hand, compared to what they were looking for. Or they may respond in a natural way when they succumbed to an alliance in trying to protect the arrangement that was right in their own eyes. The financial bill is a very predictable consequence of such cooperation. This is a bill for maintaining a stable system. The bill of putting increased capitals into the unchanged, and in many places a defective system, rather than a bill with some vision, is not talking about the will of radical reforms. There's not much going to happen on the bill, Mr. President. Let us consider just how the groups come out of each individual, for this also gives us insight into the work of government. Here is a government involved in an independent group, which involves the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to present financial support, where there are no tax reductions, no simple tax system, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. At the same time, a significant expansion is expected that this group, once represented under the motto, is now leading over the nation, i.e. This bill is in no way defined by what the independent category that presented in the elections was, I'm not talking about the Independence Party over the years. It seems here that we are totally new, totally different from the one we've been exposed to when it comes to the main focus of government spending, taxes, and so forth. It has been observed in the past that the advance company obviously received nothing from this financial bill. The land hospital is supposed to be on the Ring Road, Arion Bank will be given to claimers, the state will lead inflation and inflation in a new year with the remuneration I mentioned earlier. The Swiss way to housing, when has it been named after the election? You are now realizing that when the graduates were talking about the Swiss route, they were likely just talking about neutrality. They did not intend to act, but they would sit next to them. But they get three seats to sit by, in this government. But left green receives additional expenses. I have to say. I have often felt that my left - green goal was to increase expenses. They'll be pretty aggressive about it. But the things that disappoint me and, in fact, a measure of concern are just how unsurpassed this expansion is. It's like I mentioned, in the beginning, a significant increase in expenses into the same system. This can be harmful. As surgeons have repeatedly pointed out the last step, raising funds to a faulty system can be harmful. There is no problem with the defects in the relevant systems. Clearly, the health system is an example. Rather than deal with it, and clearly, what needs to be done there. The middle class had a policy on improving the health system, but instead of being employed, money is pumped into the system in a very significant way, and priority is in order to maintain the defects of the system rather than reduce them. This is where I mean things like the great agreement that has occurred in the health system and will continue with the bill presented here. The network and the ministry are constantly being squeezed together in one place, at the National Hospital, increasing pressure on them, making it more difficult for them to perform the role they were designed to play because of this great stress, while there is also a poor investment and an unnew opportunity for health care in many parts of the country, not just on the country but even in neighboring companies of Reykjavík. Instead of trying to reverse this trend, they continue to add in Lananan. I don't talk about the most obvious sign that men are totally trapped in the health - care system, which is a well - aware decision to proceed with the Ring Way, i.e. The construction of a new land hospital, without so much as one of the factors that has been pointed out in recent years, shows that building a new hospital would be more practical and more quick to build in a new place. No, men are totally trapped in their system thinking, and there they are very clearly identified in the plans that go so far that they are not content to put money on this project in order to try to avoid being abandoned from building on Ring Way but are given special authority to sell the property that has been considered most likely to be the most suitable place for a new land hospital. Of course, this does not mean that we are completely opposed. We see that it actually began with the last government. The minister of the government unexpectedly sold the land of the Vifilus, a land owned by the State, had been owned by the Land Hospital, and had been thought of as the future construction site of the Land of the Hospital. No, the Minister sold it without a warrant. I've got the highest attention. It was done without a warrant. Though there is good reason, the Senate has not yet examined this arrangement of former financial ministers. But clearly, the firm will of this government and of the last one is to prevent humans from doing what is wise in this large matter. There are many other examples of how a government has the budget to establish a faulty system. I don't have time to trace it from a brief talk. But I would like to add it, specifically pointing out the prevalence of this bill in many ways. The income is largely based on the economic growth programme as well as it is certain to follow as things are developing now in the economy, and a relatively small decrease in economic growth will complete the destruction of the bill. The same applies to the expense gate. Funds were discussed with them that various predictable teams had been there, point points that predicted that the cost would be higher than expected in budgets, and given as an example of contributions to foreigners or inmates, which were evident when making financial laws for 2017 that would be much greater than expected in the bill. Now it's time to repeat the same game with this team and, actually, a number of other teams, i.e. There are unrealistic spending plans, and likely income is also being published. Unless economic developments become so much more positive in the new year. In addition to all of this, a significant increase in government media management is expected with a 51% rise in proposals for the Ministry of the Presidency, a large part of these new budgets is a special program to support the central management of the Ministry to ensure that the government follows the policies adopted by the administrations of a government contract. All of this is a great concern, Mr. President, and a reason to expect the highest. The prime minister will have a position to enforce all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u156	A respectable president. Hv. A senator criticized the Independence Party, which in itself is fine. I understood criticism. The senator, so the independence party had gone too far to the left, and he must correct me if there's a misunderstanding. I wondered this because of what I was doing. A senator comes from a group called the Central Party, and I expect to be a member of the middle party, I firmly assume by the name, maybe that's my naive conclusion, but I suppose it is. I usually feel left at the center of all these tests you are taking, but I can swing a lot to the subject involved. I wondered about this because we have a government consisting of the left-green and independent group and certainly the forwarding party. I've always understood the forward party as a middle party, too, at least in word, since when he's in government, he's suddenly going to be a terrible far to the right end, most of the time I've watched politics, he's been with the Independence Party when he's been in charge. Here the left green has been criticized a little for allowing the Independence Party to move so far to the right, and this bill is terriblely bad because it's so much independence party and little left green, but I can hear it. A member of the Central Party criticizes the Independence Party for being too far to the left. I have to admit that I'm terribly confused about all that right-left in general, so maybe it's my entire mistake. I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator might shed a clearer light on this, and it would be nice to hear him talk only about the central category and whether this government is not much to the right or to the left or enough in the middle of the column. Senator
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to discuss the interests that this peculiar government is with me like he is. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] You're right. One senator says that the terms right and left in politics may not be as good enough to explain politics as they used to be. As a middle man, however, I believe that both the right and the left need to be maintained. I don't think it would be good if we only had one middle party and one president of that party except possibly if it was the one here, but it couldn't be trusted that it was always that way. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] So I suppose it is better to have systems with different categories of different priorities and to keep them from the right and the left. That's why it worries me a little bit that there's a certain imbalance in this administrative team, which at best expressed itself in the complete apathy of the Independence Party in maintaining this, but probably just that the party had given up, was tired, and allowed it to become a long way to the left to get to the opposite side of the middle of what was intended for the group. Even what in this bill reminds us of the positive things the Independence Party has had to offer, things such as the importance of freedom, the importance of respecting the rights of the individual? I don't see anything in this emphasis, and actually not much of the government covenant that reminds me of the good that the Independence Party has done. We're just raising taxes here. It's a complicated tax system. There's extra expenses. Increased expenses may be important, as I have traced to previous talks, but they are undesirable and very harmful if they are merely failing to maintain a damaged system and expand the hatch, increasing the system. The Independence Party is in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u158	A respectable president. I think I'll continue this particular discussion in another area because I'll always be so confused about this right/left stuff. We'll discuss the budget that's always controversial, normal, like now. A senator went in a little bit. I've noticed, both when I was here in 2013-2016 and now, standing in a position of government for both times, or the so-called government opposition, I've not always looked at it as a controlling position, it can be very difficult to get comments and suggestions on the memory of the section or position of government into the discussion so that the more part will take a lot of it, let alone its approval in the chamber. I felt that I saw it earlier today when the most important part of Pirata was rejected by our harmless proposal. Maybe because here we're all in this panic that makes them not to know it well enough, it can be, I just don't know, but it reminded me of the pattern I'm accustomed to seeing here at the Council. It is always this division, this amazing division between government and government. Even when there are very different categories of government and very different categories of government opposition, the exchange is always between government and government opposition. I think this is societally interesting, I must say. It is very difficult for us in our memory to come up with suggestions that are harmless or simply conflict with opinions, even the stated opinions of the highest degree. Minister, let alone. Senators in the large part. Where it is. A senator was in charge, and in fact, because of the time I was here last, I wondered, " How can I conduct this discussion and this work, so that the voice of a government stand that offers suggestions and comments like that? ' A senator is doing, many of which are very interesting I must say, heard. How does that count? Senators with their experience as ministers should be best for us to make these important comments as a matter of course. A senator himself points out that the government will be listened?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u159	Mr. President. It is always interesting to wonder at the political and political developments with which they are born. Senator. What he asks about here, of course, is a question you've been asking yourself for a long time and repeated because there's been a continuing debate in this room in at least A decade and more likely on the importance of changing the tactics of the General Assembly, improving the shape of the council, and increasing the confidence of the Generals, Mr. President. We've heard a lot about it. I think that most people would agree that if we were to succeed, we would increase the confidence of the Generals. A senator points out that we do not appear to be like two prospective team members who have decided to oppose whatever has been said to the other team. It is our policy in the Middle East and I know that it is also the stated policy of Porta to make our move to change this and open to no matter where they come from, to evaluate the proposals solely on the basis of their own and the reason they are presented, but not to evaluate them from the source of the proposal. The government now adopted a government covenant under an unusual name, i.e. The treaty was entitled not only to the government's covenant but to the Treaty of Government Cooperation and the Pronunciation of the Generals. But what has been the case? Who was e.g. Does the time come for committees to be mentioned? There was nothing to listen to comments or requests of government opposition. What is so true of the law? A senator mention? I wonder if there's going to be a motion for a government stand approved here tonight. Hopefully as many as possible. I think that there are most of them, not just the suggestions we make, but the suggestions we make from the Senate. A senator and others. [[The president calls.]] But now, Mr. President, it's a real challenge. We may get the answer tonight. Is there any hope that the government will change the practice here and listen to practical suggestions no matter where they come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u160	A respectable president. Up until 2016, the budget was a major manifestation and a battle zone throughout Polish government every time for the coming year. Thus the government's finances were controlled, along with financial contributions and so - called alliances. They are now to be no more. The General has decided to change the procedure. This is the Federal Parliament's residence. It's about the government's finances. So, what's the work plan now? I am moved to remind the world of what I am doing, mostly the highest. Governments, how government laws on public financial matters govern the financial affairs of the state. The goal of the law is to promote responsible government of government on the basis of careful strategy, transparency, and firmness. As far as I can tell, that arrangement is acceptable. General. It is vital to review that according to the law, three programs are building the foundation of the government's budget and government policy, since it is as if it has forgotten many. Budget policy, financial plan, budget. A financial policy should be submitted at the beginning of a terms of five years, covering general goals and development of financial and rural communities. The financial agenda deepens and further expands financial policy goals and how they will be reached from year to year for the next five years. The budget is to be set up for economic reasons, including government revenue, spending costs, and the scope of investments. And budgets should always be based on financial planning and include the final decision on government income and the next year's budget. It seems obvious to me that these budgets are not handled correctly. What are the facts? In terms of financialism, it is not a private government policy, and it is certainly fatal for the government, but fact. It doesn't make any difference, though the government has produced a controversies of its financial policy in the years 2018,2022. It has not been discussed by the General, and it has not been in that discussion process. for financial counsel that is expected by the law. A reliable new financial policy cannot be the basis for the government's financial affairs for the next five years. The majority of apples may be acidable, but it is serious if the Allied is going to reroute the project that has been agreed to contribute to the transparency and careful spending. The same is true of financial planning. In force, there is a budget plan for the previous government. It's the only financial program in force. There is also another sour apple that bites in whether you like it or not. As a result, the budget has to be settled within existing financial policies and financial programmes. Clearly, it is not. It is true that it is turned for a new government and that it is difficult politically. It is also true that the new government did not accept it until November 30. This is not consistent with the corrosiveness of the government law. However, this does not change the fact that the Council is to respect official financial laws, such as the rest of the country's laws. I would like to remind you again of the purpose of the law, which is to promote the responsible management of public funds on the basis of careful planning, transparency, and firmness. The work of the law now violates these goals. Thus, the government not only contributes to a more cautious budget at the top of the economy but also forces them through without legal processes. Mr. President. The government operates on the basis of a covenant for its cooperation, work, and work. By permission of the president, I want to quote from the covenant, which, in fact, is part of the covenant.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: To strengthen the public's trust in corporate affairs, financial life, politics, and community institutions, it has to be established in a longer term, increased transparency in activities and administration. Later in the same covenant: ▪ An unusual situation calls for adjustments in practice, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to a new approach to the work in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. Mr. President. I can agree with every word I quoted. Among them are long - term stability, transparency, trust, change in practice, respect for assignments, and new approach to projects. However, it is impossible for me to get those words to deal with the tactics involved here. However, they are very comfortable with the government laws on public finances. President. V.E.G. In answer to what was said by the prime minister. paritaprevir A Leví earlier at the discussion, with the permission of a president: ▪ We must not associate with laws on public finances, such as physical laws. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. On the other hand, the prime minister would tell in which cases he would feel it proper for the General to go against the current law and whether this position is in harmony with the above reference to the government covenant. Does the government think the best way to transparency, trust, improved management, and stability in the long run is to violate existing laws? It would certainly be in the spirit of the Treaty and the Law on Public Money simply to accept the current financial and financial policies until it is possible to employ careful measures to make the changes that the government wants to achieve in accordance with the General Assembly and until its agencies and clients, such as financial advisers. For good reason, the government laws on government finance have a five - year - long frame of mind with regard to financial and financial policies. That is exactly the long - term stability the government's own covenant calls for. The law's opinion of public finances is that change is measured and has a connotation. It is widely practiced in countries that have taken up a similar arrangement that new governments must initially accept the decisions of those ahead until policy adjustments and priorities can be properly and carefully adjusted. It is disappointing, therefore, that a new government chooses to disregard public financial laws and to throw down careful management. The last government brought up good living and considerable space so that the government can begin to fix and improve within the framework as expected by law, then complete its financial policy at the start of the year, and bring forward its financial plans, and then budgets in the fall. By doing this, the government can successfully prepare all the good things it wants to do. Mr. President. Finally, I want to reiterate that it is disappointing that the government of the new labor skills will fail so badly at the beginning of its walk, which I am sure she intends to last for four years. It does not promise good that the walk will be easy, struggling, or happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u161	A respectable president. It's my duty to give you what is bad. A senator counters that he specifically asked my comments earlier today on official financial laws. He may not have heard the context in which they were presented, but they said that government financial laws focus on choosing springtime. A senator knows that in the spring, a new government has time to produce financial policy, prepare a financial bill, and establish a financial plan. Hv. A senator is here referring to the fact that in many of our neighboring countries, new governments will be treated with the laws of the previous governments. This is to do the right thing in Norway. However, it is the ideal period of four years, for it is legal, and although governments explode during the election season, it is not allowed to vote but simply needs to form a new government. Thus, as we know from the country level here, Norwegians provide a political stability. As a result, the tradition has developed that an advanced government actually prepares the next one's budget. There was a law on the official budget of 2015. They do not really expect the unexpected events that have occurred here twice - they may not be particularly unexpected anymore, perhaps just expecting. But that's what I quoted when I said that these laws are not physical laws, for they expect a measure of firmness in the timing of the choice. Naturally, a government that accepts an unexpected time, if we can say so, narrowly defined it, and therefore I suggested that these laws were difficult to view as natural laws in view of the political situation that exists where the law obviously does not address such unexpected elections at the times and the time frames they striped public finances, so I can explain my point before that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u162	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I understand exactly what she's doing, but it doesn't matter that the laws are made like this. Of course, this is often so that laws are unpleasant and not appropriate, but they are laws. The government must accept. There's nothing to say: it's not right, we chose at the wrong time. If that's the problem, change the law. You can't just say, "Well, it's a little uncomfortable right now, we haven't had time, and this doesn't fit into a serene we anticipated. " It doesn't matter. In this context, a person must simply remain within the code of law and follow the procedures set out in the public financial laws. People can be bad luck. As the last government took over, the General Assembly was here and agreed to be within the framework of the established financial policy, accepting it. In fact, the government that began, in January, had time to bring up financial and financial policies and plans, and everything went pretty well according to this process. It's a process. If you fall into it in the wrong place, you'll just have to bite it with an apple, like I said before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u163	Mr. President. I believe that this government has done exactly what it was supposed to do in conditions that were already under way. It presents financial policy, allowing for the council in an incredibly short period of time, a substantial review of the financial policy of the former government. She presents a new budget bill, offering a new proposal for a new financial bill if the government's center, the smaller part, had requested a longer time here at the council. It was my wish to have my time here and to get a complete budget bill. Of course, we did, because it's about our cooperation at the council and how we deal with it. However, we also live in harmony with the need to agree on the annual budget. It is our duty as members of Congress to ensure that society continues to function as it should. I'm in what? A senator by what he suggests, whether he is more aware of changes in the laws on public finances, so that there is a possibility that elections may occur at a different time. Or does he realize that we are simply heading for the Norwegian system and that we have only elections every four years? Perhaps it is the discussion that we should take here, how we are going to legalize public financial laws, according to the fact that there may be a vote in other times. We want to change radically in this respect, i.e. ............................................................................................... I don't think that's impossible. I don't think that's an outdoor idea, and I've done quite well with our neighbors, the Norwegian neighbors. Or see what? A senator realizes that public financial law will be changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u164	Mr. President. I thank you again for the answer. I can agree with everything. The prime minister said that the law is somewhat peculiar in such situations. Besides, I can say that I probably need to look at it. I can also say that disk export needs to be changed by the law, whether or not to enter a fixed budget. There are various ways to look, I'll totally agree. But that does not change the law. Though they are not suitable, either it must be taken from the law, and from the law, and from the law to the law, or from man to man. The government and the General have nothing but these two options. Of the fact that financialism has been submitted. You're absolutely right at the highest. Prime Minister. It's been submitted. She hasn't been spoken for. She's had no publicity at the council. It has not been sent out for review, so it has not been signed and has not been approved. It's a valid financial policy. There's a plan to change financial policy. It hasn't been changed yet. As far as I can remember, listening to what financial advice had to say about the last financial policy has been given to me. It was highly critical of some who are now in the government that financial counsel should not have been paid more attention. I would have thought doing this right would have just made more sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u165	A respectable president. Christmas is only Christmas, and the second year in a row are the budgets, the ones that are most excited and developed in the councils of the World Council, for the release of all too short a time that must be a matter of concern to anyone who cares about democracy. It is General's job to determine the government's income and expenses for the coming years. The national representatives simply do not have time to take a thought - provoking position on the bill of individual teams. Of course, this is not a living situation, and hopefully the General will not have to work more frequently in such situations. Of course, many good things are happening in our beautiful country. Here comes a great deal of tourists, and the number of visitors increases each year, so many even think about it. Since collapse, new strains and species have swam into the waters of the nation, all to the rescue in times of great need. The electricity plants are spinning as never before, culminating the raw language, making the country's income grow, despite the fact that more money is being made into the common resources of the population. So that's how it's all in here, like they say. The government's profits are high, and its debts are quickly paid off. Thus, national cake is now a time of large, rich, and cream that surrounds it with the thickest convention. Thus, it was the hope of many who were in poor health; the desperate, the elderly, and the various low - paying classes, that now was the time to cut the cake in their favor. So it is disappointing that no attempt, such as, is made to do so. to reduce a personal discount that would exactly benefit these people. The fact is, any income in excess of 150. K. By all scales, tax collections are recognized at the same time that it takes half as much to earn a living. This is a big contradiction, you see, when the government insists on raising the person's discount and stopping the tax pay that cannot be made, the taxation of the groups mentioned among the hands is absolutely necessary for the administration of the state. Of course, the fact that the government is based on such taxation is nothing more than a disgrace, and I call for a significant rise in taxation limits. The people's party has stressed the importance of not taxing income under 300 of yours. K. When the local pay was recorded 30 years ago, the personal discount was high enough to make a payday cut of $290. K. were tax-free, income less than 290 thoust. K. were tax free. Are we talking about some kind of dream kingdom? No, we're talking about Iceland 30 years ago. Most people agree that since then we have made great progress. If we could run the community without taxing that low income 30 years ago, it can be done now too. A respectable president. The institutions in the country have complained that they are less than they are in the capital area when it comes to financing projects they do. Under here, you fall, for example. Centers for health and college. Have their directors photographed in the South, and especially in the Southnes, considered themselves to be an outstanding object from a table. They have shown this in language and literature, and it is not acceptable if it is right and will be on duty in the near future. The population growth in both Southnes and Aarnes County has been unprecedented over the past few years, and it also covers most of the tourists who come here. It is particularly important that the main building blocks of development take place along with increasing population and projects in various areas. This is true of health institutions, high school, police, and road systems. It is safe to say that if you look to the South Sea, which is simply mentioned because the person here knows better. I look forward to working with the highest. The transport secretary in our district, since the work is there for us to do. The Slejanes Way, the Grindian Way, the road between Whoas and Selephos, must be completed, making great effort to reduce the number of single bridges on the way to Hornfjord, not to mention moving to the Western Islands to the condition that its inhabitants offer. A respectable president. It cannot be said that in a new financial bill, there is evidence that the government plans to promote law enforcement in the country, even though the Treaty speaks of powerful law enforcement agencies. The fact is, police have been living in almost continuous numbers of police officers since a long time before the collapse, and as the population has multiplied, the arrival of tourists in the country has increased. It may be safe to say that law enforcement funds are not at all sufficient to ensure police work conditions in today's society. There is an urgent need for an increasing number of police officers, and this need is not new, as indicated by the 2012 Internal Affairs Department report on police position where the police's chief problem was considered to be a decrease in police numbers. Therefore, to further support, I would like to refer to the comments of Snorri Magnússon, the president of the National Association of Officers, from summer onward, regarding the state of financial resources to the police that, gradually, the situation had become so serious that it had long since become very serious. It is necessary to make a good contribution to the police services. Over the past year, more than 7% of the available funds are not far from promoting the police. A respectable president. The police are a support to society's democratic order. If she is too weak to deal with her role in maintaining law and order in the community, it will bite people's right to life, freedom, immunity, and personal security. It also takes on the security of the state and the community as a whole. Because of the weak police, therefore, there is a special risk for the safety of society and there is a great need to take action aimed at strengthening the police so that they can cope with their role, in order to ensure the security of the citizens. At the same time, the police play a significant role in the field of emergency services due to accidents and natural disasters, and they are one of the basic public defenses, as many examples prove in recent years. There is no need to expand the importance of the basic role of the police, which is to ensure the safety of the citizens, to prevent crime and to investigate it, or to care for its services, support and role as well as its role in various fields of cooperation. During the past few decades, there have been many changes in society. The fact that organized crime does not respect any borders, increases access and communications on the Internet, and the increasing number of migrations between countries have made police work more difficult and more complex. According to a U.S. Marshal's survey released in October, the predictable trend in organized crime, including international crime, thus extending its fragrance, drug trade, man trade, prostitution, etc., is under way. On the part of the analysis department, it is believed that there will be a continuation of this trend and, in effect, an ongoing situation. In the past few years, she has warned of an increased risk of harm from individuals. Clearly, in no way can it be excluded that terrorism will be committed in Iceland or any other major violent crime. In recent years terrorism and other bad things have become more and more cruel. Here you might point to a number of recent and close - up examples of atrocities that everyone knows. There is no denying that the person here shares interest. Minister of Justice owns the police from all over the country. It is important that the police are allowed to organize their work on the basis of systematic analysis and development of national and international cases trying to approach fractures and other law enforcement problems, with the objective of preventing them. Finally, it must be noted that threats are not only anticipated. The police must also be strong enough to deal with unknown threats that may arise suddenly. Therefore, the police need to be sufficiently strong in the area of safety and so flexible that they are able to cope with the dangers that are not before them. On March 13, 2013, according to a report submitted to the Minister of Ministers of the Interior, a presentation was needed at 236 police officers in the United States. The report on the work of a committee arranged on the basis of Congress resolution from the Council of 2012. The core conclusion of the Committee was that police would need a huge increase. Regarding the number of police officers in 2007 was 712, which was thought to have to increase the number by more than 200. [[The president calls.]] The situation today may have increased by about 30 since then. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, excellent speech. There a man spoke of many fields of knowledge, since he was both a businessman and a police officer in a rural country for years. I know that as a minister of transportation, I will have a good help in him, as do other members of Congress, in advancing transport in the terms of the election. Since we are both in the Southern District, perhaps I would like to mention that there have, of course, been positive things in transportation and many things that are looking for right next year in 2018. It will be a long desire to get a new Navy to sail between the Landing Islands and the Western Islands and hopefully a ship that fits for their shipping and meets the needs of the Western eyes as well as others who have to go home to pick them up. I know there are many of them, even more than in the ocean. Hv. A senator named the one - build bridges. It is a joy to see that the increase in financial resources that have already come in years and in the year and as a financial committee and as the government was adding in this year, there will be over 2 billion, and then we have the means to do much more. The person standing here must first acknowledge that much more is needed to develop large quantities of transport around the country. But next year, if the budget is approved, it will reduce two multiplicity bridges with additional funding from the General Assembly. As we rejoice over these tiny steps, we realize that much more is needed to be done to make them acceptable. [[The president calls.]] I hope we'll be able to do a lot of things during this ideal season.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u167	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Pre-Service Minister. I'm just as interested in him as he is in the road. It's perfectly clear, topv. A secretary of transportation, that the roads of the country are far behind the traffic that has been here in the past few years and has grown constantly each year. It's got to be really good at it, we know it. I'm expecting that we'll be able to cooperate on this. Of course, I'm glad to hear two bridges down next year, but they're 18 or 19, so it's a long way to get this job done, except for all the other projects I mentioned. The minister mentioned General. It's about to come up with a new crew next year, but I also challenge a minister to take with me that the harbor, land island crew, will be examined, and I'll find out what needs to be done in order to be able to sail in there. This ship won't sail in much more than it does in the present state, though it cut a little less than the previous ship, it's perfectly clear. That's what all Western ears know. The docks need to be fixed, and good experts want to review what to do, what to do in order to be used as full - time service. And, of course, there must be another ship at hand when this new ship comes to sail to the village if its harbor is closed. There's sand east, west, north, south and down. He's quick to come and close this dock.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u168	A respectable president. It is true that the sand there has been quite a strait and perhaps not least after the natural disasters there occurred and that humans could not figure it out. But it is also true that the harbor needs to be examined, how we can continue to develop it. It was known at the start that when people enter the sandy oceans, they take quite some time to develop them, but it was also known at first that the harbor was not designed around the currentlf. So, of course, we hope to see some improvement in that area. It is true of the old Gelf, and I have said both in speech and in writing that it is important that he be there first for a time and a sailing between the Coalition and the Western Islands, both while we are learning how this new ship will function and whether it will be able to sail between the Pacific and the Western Islands, as we know that a great many of the island's have great doubts. Happily, though, there are other means of transportation. Hv. A senator mentioned a lot about law enforcement. In this regard too, there has been an excellent development. In 2014, I think it was about 2 billion to increase the number of police officers. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. Increasing in our district. Today, there are plans to increase the number of policemen considerably in connection with the whole country's sexual assault program. It is also a task that looks to the whole country. That's important. I know why. A senator with me, and especially with me. Minister of Justice is sharing an interest and a desire to do more in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u169	A respectable president. As for the land island, I remember now so far again that I recall the figure 97% who was promised before 2010, that sailing rate in the Landing Islands would be hit by the West Coast with the currentpheil ninety-nine and some percent, 97% was the first, then it went down. In fact, it became much less, a dozen percent less, as everyone knows. Of course, people in the Western Islands may not trust all such plans, and we both know that this transport is very uncertain. That's what's disturbing. This uncertainty can't go so far. In Western countries, Western industry, residents, tourists, and all of this is affected. The frequency should also be higher, therefore the rate should be increased. There has to be a higher frequency in the summer, and I would say that it would require two ships that kept sailing over the rush hour, during the summer season, so to speak. The minister mentioned the police. I couldn't finish what I was going to say before about a lot of police officers, but just to point out the highest point. At that time, the 712 police officers were in 2007. In 2012 they were reduced to 624, with an estimated increase of more than 200. Since then, the number of natural population and tourists and immigrants has increased. How many police officers are there now? Last figures since this year I think I was 660. So there are still 200 that were supposed to be needed in 2012. So it has to be injected. I thank you, of course, for being a member of this seminary, of course, thank you, and I've declared it to the Minister of Justice, but it has to be done even better and especially for law enforcement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u170	President. I'm going to begin my criticism of the health and health elements of a budget bill by turning the attention of the Parliament and the general public on the International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights adopted at the UN General Assembly on December 16, 1966, signed for Iceland on December 30, 1968, and validated August 22, 1979. The introduction of the agreement says that the states that are party to the agreement have in mind to acknowledge man's inborn dignity and equal, inseparably human rights are the basis for the freedom, justice, and peace of the world. In introduction, his member states recognize that the concept of human freedom, fearlessness, and lack of suffering will not come true only because creation will be conditions for everyone to enjoy economic, social, and cultural rights, both civil and political. As a result of the validation of the Treaty in Iceland, certain economic, social, and cultural rights were granted protection that they had not previously enjoyed. So a major step in the history of national rights protection was made up of the contract. But now that the nation's economic affairs are in full swing, how do we keep ourselves in a position to protect these economic, social, and cultural rights of the people of the land? In the context of these rights, I found it interesting to read the EAPN comments in Iceland on the financial bill of a new government, but for those who do not know it is an EAPN abbreviation for European AntiProty Network. It makes good comments, and I want to, with the permission of a president, to swerve that information. ▪ For those most likely to live in poverty, as measured by lack of material wealth, or the lack of employment, it is a form of self - control, long - suffering, and unemployed. In 2015, 23% of those who define themselves as desperate for material advantages and 2.5% of the pensioner's population lived. The financial bill shows that reform will continue to reduce the elderly's recovery by 1.1 billion dollars. an increase to the elderly due to an increase in free income target. Nothing comparable is seen in the case of microbe. The rise in forwards is explained by the increase in disability and the legal promotion of improvement. The average income of a pensioner was for the expected change over 384 you. K. during a month while the average income was less than 333 yous. K. per month, or which corresponds to the difference of 612 you have. K. over the year. More children than adults live in poverty in Iceland. Children live in poverty because of adult poverty. Hence, solutions to the problems of poor children must reflect this fact. Higher support for children's families has been one of the conflicts of those who are concerned about poverty. ASI pointed out to the 2016 budget that the taxes on the lowest income and that single parents had increased substantially since 1998, including 1998. due to reduction of children's improvement. It would be that pedestrians would not have been kept in terms of rates or prices, a decrease in income ratio had increased all over the last year and since 2010, all child benefits were linked, including for the age of 7 years and younger. Thus, this trend has been stressed, including: to the well - being of the well - being of the well - being department in regard to poverty. Children's improvement rate is 900 billion. K. will not achieve that goal. Housekeeping guarantees the construction of large homes, but housing problems have the worst outcome for those who live in poverty. It is very important to ensure continued funding for the building of the system, so that tenants can live with quality security and a suitable tenant house run by unprofited tenants. There is no mention of a review of basic housing benefits or a change in interest of members of the household. In international comparison such as OECD Betaer Life index and Social Progress index, it is the highest access to the economic facilities that will reduce Iceland at well-being. It is true that we are here to finance the construction of 600 new apartments, but the need has been made up in a number of over 1,500,9,000 apartments. What is the point of getting experts to identify problems if they should simply ignore the results? Then there is no financial bill on the rise in personality discounts, but this procedure was most useful to those who were earn less than that. According to ASI analysis, one of the main reasons is that the busiest groups have been carrying an ever higher tax burden that the person's discount has not followed pay development. It would most likely be that this summary lit on some sort of alarm bell for us members of the council. Something's going wrong with us. Based on the interest of the left green before election, and over the past few years, a considerable increase in health and welfare donations could have been expected. This conflict between words and actions suggests that there is no real desire to respond to this trend, so I would like to ask the highest question. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: Where are the steps toward eliminating poverty in Iceland? How's the top? Ministers with the emphasis laid out on the fictitious budget to protect the economic, social, and cultural rights that we are committed to the international human rights agreements to ensure that they are rights? Let us, then, move on to health care. It seems that the medical system should not be fully financed today. No more than before. Leaving at least 645 million. K. a possible way to manage the land hospital, to be funding for making the necessary adjustments to housing, and to ensure that mental management is not even included, is a serious loss of confidence toward the nation. A British factor that carries the risk that people will receive the wrong diagnosis or inadequate treatment because of the tremendous strain on the health system that makes human mistakes, that the sick will be served late even if they need it, that there will be prolonged waiting skills, that more doctors, nurses, and other qualified health professionals will give up and flee to other jobs, and that people may die that do not need to die. This may sound like a dramatic list, but it's a trial. Good people who spend the night working day to ensure the health of Icelanders are long tired of working in a system crisis. Total minimum value is zero to zero. Cutting more is completely absurd. What, my dear government, are you people thinking? It is clear that the priorities of the public when it comes to a fund of government funds are available for health care. The first order of the Land Hospital is primarily that the business is guaranteed. Thereafter, facilities - especially the mental ward of the Land Hospital - have to do with the mental department what is called suicidal and uplifted safety standards, especially with fireproofs. And then, last time, there's a lot of equipment. Six hundred and forty - five million are needed for hospital management to hold seawater. 500 million at mental - health care and 400 million at the buy. It is not enough to strengthen the hospital's management over some random summer but to make sure that operating ground is a minimum guarantee. The people with the best knowledge of the hospital needs for the minimum amount of 645 million. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Health Minister: Why, on the contrary, does the health minister not listen to such people?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u171	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for an extensive and well - versed talk. I'm gonna try this two-minute answer to come on some of those things, but maybe I'm not gonna get it all. [[Take it up to, just a short one.]] In terms of disability status, I would like to say that certain improvements are being made now between 1 and 2. which are steps in the right direction, but by no means enough. It is clear that the current government's policy is to revise the social security system when it comes to that group. It's been shown. That work has been and is running and will be promoted in the first few months of a new year, and hopefully it will happen quickly. At the same time, the aspects of the social security system that are concerned with this group need to be revised with the aim of improving their status. With regard to the housing situation, there is also the possibility that in the past of the present government, and I wholeheartedly agree. A senator as it comes to social housing and the importance of continuing to increase and build in terms of this, building on legislation established not long ago and showing itself to be active. But I agree with what. A senator for long-term financing, and another for state funds, needs to be reassigned. This was very good in a discussion that took place yesterday at the General Assembly. Then you need to revise your system. It especially needs to be noted for the development of the growth process and for the particular attention to young people who are affected by it. When it comes to poverty in general and poverty of children, for why is it so? A senator entered it, and it is of utmost importance that it is clearly stated in the policy of the current government that it should take action. It is important that we map carefully what measures we are going to take, what changes we are going to make in the child - reform system, the birthworm, and the baby's. who turn it. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president, I think I'm gonna have to finish my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u172	President. I appreciate the answers. Minister. At the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 2008, an optional Protocol was adopted for an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights that included the establishment of a judicial committee having a ruling authority against treaties against the terms of the agreement. I have now proposed a synonym that the government will be assigned to the Iceland government to sign and validate optional accounts on a global agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. This would enable the Icelanders to send a message to the prosecution in violation of a contract. So I ask the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities whether this is a means of which the Minister considered to improve to ensure that the government of Iceland took a real interest in these rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u173	A respectable president. I'm going to go back to where I left off earlier. When it comes to poverty, how important it is that the government is going to go to work in the new year, which turns toward poverty in society, go over, and plan for what action to take. When it comes to the poverty of children, I'd like to begin by saying that it is so happy that it is generally less in Iceland than in our neighboring countries. Yet, there are too many children here who live in poverty. I think it's about 7% of children aged 0◯17 who have a material deficiency. It's disturbing. That's where action needs to be taken. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator says this has to do with the housing and the operation for microenergy pensioners and into the child repair system. We need to go to all those things and make them organized. This is one of the main priorities of what is going on here, especially in the poverty of children. I am convinced that as we reach the root of this problem, we also begin to manage the poverty of the parents of these children, as if by reason of the circumstances. A senator came in. This government has been working for some 20 days. It is important that procedures are intact and taken into full control. It is the full will of what it says to put all the strength possible to shape action. I hope to have a very good cooperation with why. well - being committee for the work ahead. Regarding the NTSB as a what? A senator came in, I'd like to honestly say that there's something that the person here needs to learn more. I am convinced, however, that it does not take such a charge to achieve the political will of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister to exercise itself in this category. [[The president calls.]] He's still there, whether it's up to the Senate or not. The senator will be accepted or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u174	President. I'm glad to hear that you don't need a D.A. to get the job done. Ministers respond to the cumulative problems of the many people in society who experience violations of their human rights in economic and social rights. It makes me very happy. I can't wait to see it happen. What is stated in this global agreement on economic and social rights is of utmost importance, since it speaks of freedom. As it is today, when people have to make decisions in distress, they are not free. When it comes to poverty, people are poor simply because they do not have money. It's not complicated, it just doesn't have money. Then we need to start thinking of new ways to prevent this. For a small nation, such as Icelanders, who are as rich in resources as we are, this shouldn't have to be a problem. It tells itself that when we make sure that everyone has enough money, has access to the resources they need to make ends meet, people are free to make decisions and live their lives to the full. I think we need to dig a little deeper to see if the mismatch that exists in Iceland is potentially built into the systems we have created and if we don't have to start revising things from scratch. I hope to the highest. Ministers are looking at my council hearings on the DA's Committee. I think that might be a good idea. Other countries have adopted and are using it, and it has already been reported. This affects the way governments deal with such problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's fine, specific speech, as well as very good, vital questions. I look forward to cooperating with what. A senator as the head of the welfare committee. She asks me first of all about the state of the Land Hospital of ◯ University hospital. I must stay only with the word she uses when she says that we should not put a random summer into the Land Hospital. This is not the way it was done. Rather, it was specifically listened to what the Landspians thought was primarily needed. Regarding the foregoing, the Landsspians say in their own review of the budget bill that they have 100 million (U.S.). K. If they get everything that's been promised, they'll be resting at 2017. A much better meeting with the Land Hospital is now being made for 2018. First of all, because of what is called systematic growth, i.e. 1.8% increase from year to year, which is what the land hospital has requested for its foundation. And major issues are also being faced by the Landskeeper as well. I'm going to name your PET, name a business at Vifils, name the graduation department at Landakoti, et cetera. All of this is in harmony with the expressed wishes and disassociated and well - supported wishes of the hospital. In addition, the hospital is getting new ones into service. For example, there is a special force in the field of mind, a special strength to meet the design and other factors. So, in fact, it is much better to meet the hospital's wishes next year than last year with the support of this operating ground as it already lies. If it turns out that this is not enough, we need to deal with it in due time. However, once all the changes are made, the major part suggests that the increase between the years for the Land Hospital is 8.2%, which I think must be unique. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u176	President. Thank you very much. A minister for this focused and clear answers to my question. But I would like to ask them: This could be the case, 645 million, spoken of by the Landskeeper as missing business to keep the hospital going, is it something that has been fixed by this brief period? Is this not what is being asked for anymore? Have all the needs of the Land Hospital been met? So if I call you tomorrow, will they confirm it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u177	A respectable president. No, it's not. In fact, I believe that the Landspians can still support the lack of funding. However, as I have previously pointed to here in the platform, the figures involved in the scale of the Land Hospital are so high. When we speak about 600 or 645 million that are missing in this case, we are talking about the amount less than 1%. In some case, it would simply be spoken of as being within a margin, something that must be revealed. There are other institutions in this country. I mention the Hospital in Akureyri, who has also had very clear, logical requests. I'm bringing up the medical institutions all over the country where we're giving a little bit of a conversation. But not to meet all the wishes that exist there. However, the basic outcome is that health institutions abroad are gaining an additional 8.6% while the National Hospital is adding 8.2% to 8.2%, and it can be said that if one of the health institutions were to be looked at now, it would be the main hospital at Akureyri, which is gaining a 6% increase between years and not more than 8%, as the other institutions do. We're adding a lot between years. We are not meeting everyone's wishes, that is absolutely clear. But I think it's clear to everyone who's been watching what the one here is saying that the basic thing is that we're strengthening the public health system. We want to do so, both in increased donations but also in an increased understanding of the importance of design, quality, understanding of the changing community age composition and other aspects to be seen in the development of health care. But this is what we must do together. I would like to see that there was a joint task on the contrary to making long - term elections for health policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u178	President. I thank you again for the answers. I just think it's such an amazing argument that we shouldn't meet the needs of the Land Hospital because it's such a small amount. I would have thought that because it's such a small amount, it would be so easy to meet them, especially when they say things like the thought of the sea to hold. That it's just that it's absolutely necessary in the business that they need this just to keep the water. Then I ask if a minister has any reason not to believe in the opinion of the governor of the Land Hospital. That's what I think is so weird about this. In fact, I personally find it extremely difficult to put away this budget bill for a year before worrying that the hospital will not receive the small amount needed to keep business going so that people won't be fired, so it won't take on sick people in Iceland and people who need this service. Last year, I was heard in the highest voice. According to a minister, they were prepared to cope with problems. I hope so much that it's about to happen. But I think there's a huge need for us to respond and meet the hospital for the small amount they're asking for. I'm paying attention to the heads of the Land Hospital. If they say they need this amount to keep the business going, I think they must be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u179	Mr. President. Now, many of the things I had planned to discuss in this talk were answered from the top. Secretary of health. Still, it is interesting to trace certain things in this bill. A year ago, I was standing here and basically holding my most awkward talk ever. This is almost to a day, and just under the same schedule, 2nd. ... fora billforbunddment. The reason why she was so embarrassed was that while my associates in Piranha were sitting down and composing with the existing health minister and then the chairman of a legal committee to secure a land area. We did it. The foundation of the Land Hospital was guaranteed for another year. How glad I am that I do not have to go through such a talk again! But who knows if I don't have to? The former vice president of the United States, Joe Biden, once said, with the permission of a president: "Don't tell me your values, show me your laws, and I'll tell you your values. You see, this financial bill is a bit like that. It tells us something about the values of the government parties. It has been said that there has been an extremely small period of time in winning the budget. You can accept it in some way. This was added in various cases, and some have been added. Yet, there are so many things that could have been improved more if you were to base your understanding of how the budget should be in the language that the Party has done even during the year that I have been in the Senate. We are at this point now in view of the proposed changes in the majority of the objects, which will most likely achieve that this budget will result in 645 million. K. ... ofa careerof the Land Hospital plus 400 million. K. and another 500 million will be needed to survive the mental ward. There are many good things in the budget, especially changes that have taken place quite far in order to secure the health markets in the country, although there is insufficient funds to buy equipment there. Now it's 200 million. K. that I'm also reassigned to the appliance plan, if I don't get it wrong. But only Southland Health Organization needs 107 million. K. at the buy of equipment to maintain a normal position. Then all the other clinics are all over the country. All right. We know that money is always limited. You can't do everything. At times, we may need to examine what glory we have rather than what we wish. I understand that, and I totally agree. Remember, however, that 1.4% of remaining gross domestic product is expected next year. There's a number as the highest. Secretary of finance, then the highest. Prime Minister, said that if it were a violation of less than 1.6% of gross domestic product at the time, under no circumstances could it be considered responsible. Admittedly, land production has increased. But it has not increased that much, and the economic status of the economy has not changed so much that it alone is sufficient to justify a change of 0.2 percentage of GDP. It's a political decision. Total political, not theoretical. This is a figure that someone has chosen, as far as I can see from total disproportionateness, someone who had some opinion based on an inconspicuous belief in New Testament economics rather than some better ide, which has not been proved repeatedly. I refuse to believe that this number, since it can change from 1.6% of GDP to 1.4% by political decision, can't go to 1.3% if it's what it takes to make sure that the health system is fully rich. What difference does it make if we return 30 billion bucks? leftover at the end of 2018 or 29.5 billion. leftover? Let's put it together and record it to 645 million. K. More than 500. We could spend 645 million. K. Reminds me to pay off the debt of the state that was about 0.8% of the highest debt today, I'm talking about RIKB 19 0226. If those 645 million. K. If they were paid on that debt and everything else that it won't do, we're in nonsense, and everything is going very well, it would save us about 47 million. K. each year at interest costs. If we were to spend 645 million. K. Rather, in the Land Hospital, there are many options that can be opened for the destruction of the funds. Likely, waiting lists would be extended. This would mean that fewer seats to form at home are waiting for the hip or knee joints that may keep them off the job market. In October it was. had 491 waited more than three months for knee replacement surgery. If we assume that only 30% of those waiting for such an operation are unable to work because of the wait, there have been at least 70,000 hours left to lose on this wait. Now I don't know if this 30% number is right, I'm happy to have her very low to try to be moderate. I don't have any grounds for it. But all the other numbers fit. Only then would the world's economic benefits be doubled by paying off the debt. The effect on a wealth of money would be exactly the same as paying off the debt. There are other ways. Hospital space is very expensive. Many live in hospitals rather than residence homes because of lack of space and human resources. Closes in nursing homes, such as Blesa and Kumbarav, did not improve the current serious situation. There were very serious reasons for these endpoints, but it cannot be made as if it were unpredictable that this house was not in order, considering the kind of operation that has been involved. Of course, new measures should have been made before the end came, but of course, I do not inherit it from a new government that had nothing to do with it. That's what happened. This is a fact. The question is, could be 645 million. K. In addition to our hospital or health care system, has the tendency to reduce this problem and even make us a national advantage? I mean, that's the case. The benefits of ensuring the management ground of the Land Hospital are far greater than the benefits of providing a little more rest. This is absolutely boarding. We're not even supposed to have to talk about it. But for some reason, we're here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd be willing to concentrate much more on innovation, employment, or environmental or something. But we do not have a perfectly funded health system at this time. I understand, and I agree with it as the ultimate. A health minister said in reply earlier, but he needs to understand better why gross domestic product for better projects cannot be protected by a further 0.1 percentage point. We're really going to give it 645 million. K. depending on the results, in a sense, the financial resources that make up to 800 billion dollars.? I hope I don't have to give any more embarrassing talks between Christmas and New Year's, so we can work something out right now. But to finish this, since my time is running out, I'd like to remind you of more things. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen traced his speech. The main points are these 600 apartments, which are being financed by growing stock contributions. I don't understand why they can't be at least 1,500, which is the lowest estimates you've ever had. The food is 1,500,49,000 that we need. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we do this? Also, the transport program is not fully funded.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u180	A respectable president. I just thought this speech was pretty good and nothing awkward, so I wanted to thank you. A senator for her. And I'd also like to thank Porta Congress for taking the fight for the Land Hospital, and I'd like to do it repeatedly. For Icelandic health care, it is vital that we never forget that the back of Icelandic health care always ends there. Although we may at times tend to talk about the Land Hospital as if it were a local hospital for Reykjavík, he is not. Of course, he will take care of the situation when the local homes cannot complete the medical care for the individual. I want to thank you especially for that, because I have sometimes thought of it as a member of Reykjavík that it is almost so that we can't talk about institutions in the capital area. So I'm celebrating the staff at the National Hospital's Loyal Associations of a University Hospital. It is true that medical services, such as public service, followed the financial breakdown. Everyone ran faster for less money and did more for less money. And then everyone sees the economic surge and says, "Where is this vomit of ours?" She won't come back to us. Because in the wake of the crash, there was also an incision in the Land Hospital, as we know. It was a long way off. So I think it's very important to turn defensive to the offense. During the three weeks that I've been a health minister, I've taken a fight for the health system and will continue to do so. However, I would like to ask: Is there anything called a full - time health system? Is that true? I'm not quite sure about that. But I don't want to talk about the difference between success and surrender. I want to make sure of what. A senator that if the land hospital gets into trouble during the year, we will meet and figure it out. Of course, that's the only way, since the Landspians are such a fundamental tool for our health - care system that something else cannot be tolerated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u181	Mr. President. I know there is no such thing as a full - time health system. I may have been saying something bad earlier. What I meant was that the kind of service available today would not be impaired. Thank you very much. A health minister for giving me exactly the promise we made here at the last minute before, that it would not be allowed to get into a bad position. If that's the right thing for me to say, it's a promise at the highest. Minister's a pleasure. It is true that in the years before the collapse, and even since then, the State has been run for just a very bad economic policy based primarily on old religions that have no purpose in modern times. I'd like us at the council to try to find out, and hopefully we can work together to do that. But since I have the highest. A health minister who answers me would like to be curious. A medical facility has an emergency service available to some six thousand people each year. It has often been said that the emergency services are not directly funded, that are means of translocation, and that keep it going. Will it be fixed now? If not: Why try to fix it in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u182	A respectable president. First of all, what we need to do together is get together on health policy for Iceland. Second, we need to map out our current ministry. In some parts of the world, there are double - redundancys in the system, and there are gaps in it in some areas. I would like to form some side of prevention and rehabilitation, since we would have to do better and do more work. Then we need to leave the government budget to the steps we want to take toward a better health system. This requires work, time, and extreme, as well as paradox work because all these views need to be at the table, provided we agree that the application we need is primarily for the public health care. That's a basic focus, an exit point. But about a particular question why. I want to say that at this point when I've been working for three weeks, I've met with the directors of the South National Institute of Health at one brief meeting and had one phone call to the directors there. I haven't even had time to meet all the heads of the board yet, so I don't want to discuss the situation of the individual institutions because I have to get a complete view of the situation. What lies ahead for us in the next few weeks is to divide up the pots that we make a suggestion to improve the state of these clinics, doing so in a fair way, and considering the different positions of the strains, which are truly logical and in fact very different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u183	A respectable president. I appreciate that. It's all so contrary when ministers give us an answer, but thank you for a good conversation. I agree completely with you. We need good health policies for the whole country in the future. I can't wait for these policies to be completed. There are many things we need to consider. So I'm talking a little bit more about the Southland Institute of Health, which is one of the other two health institutions in my district, and I've tried to be comfortable in her affairs, the message has been misleading. On the one hand, the message is: Yes, they're going to run an emergency unit. But the money hasn't exactly followed. If emergency services were to stop Selphoss, six thousand more cases would be included in the Land Hospital. That's what I think would cost the community as a whole a lot of money. We need to try to make sure of this for the future. Other than that, it's just very simple, and I'll agree with the highest. Health Minister: We need to fix all of this. It takes time. I understand that three weeks isn't a long time to fix all the things in the world, but we're just trying to work together on this and fix these holes. There's a lot of them, but we can fix them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u184	A respectable president. This discussion will conclude. There aren't many left on the rosary, but there are a few things I'd like to enter in my speech. I'm gonna start with the transportation. For interested persons in the construction of transport workers, this financial bill can only be said to be a tremendous disappointment. Not many weeks ago, it is more and less than any candidate in charge today. Governments were filled with the need for extensive transport. The result? Between the years of life, some 1,300 million are added and 680 million will be included between discussions. But then you need to consider what the zero point is in comparison. After this rights of about 2 billion more, we are still 7 billion under transportation funds in relation to only a two - year - old transport program. Of course, it is a situation that will make life impossible for the local councils to explain to their voters at Christmas parties ahead. That's not a big offense. The construction of transport workers is almost nothing. That's just the way it is. Let's talk about it as it is. I'll give myself to the highest. A secretary of transportation who is here with us agrees with me on this. It's too small. That's not a big offense. To put this into context, 2 billion is now being added, and calling mornings cost 250 million. 2 billion do not make any major parts of transportation. There is a road block within Hafnarfjörður, part of a two - folding cigarette track, in a short chapter from the Krísavísks During Calissel Roads. That short chapter costs $2 billion. That leaves the whole country, all the projects we've been talking about lately. This is a concern, considering that a four - and - twelve - year transport program is being revised before the spring council. I would like to confirm the Parliament and the secretary of transportation so that we try to approach that work realistically, for especially for fragile settlements is no worse than to screw up the expectation management of transportation. This is what I wanted to say about transportation. I'd like to do a little business in connection with the financial work. Everyone has an understanding that this financial bill is being won, rather, in a short period of time. It's all very complicated and twisted. I think everybody's trying to do their best. But when that is the case, excuse the way I put it, it's completely annoying that people are put in the position that, from within the council, suggestions are made on the budget of each Ministry, where people will make conscious of us local senators in a position to take some stroke after year for things that can be compared to waving carrots in front of running animals. I'll take two examples. V.E.G. The minister of the environment was very pleased with me that from within the Ministry, there is a proposal to cut down the natural institutions of the country, about to the bone and to the rest of it. Of course it's fixed in the council, but I think everyone was aware that it would be fixed. So, what's up with us in shit like this? The same can be said of hospital spending and health care in the country. It was by no means possible for a combination of sound and image to make financial proposals that came from the Ministry. It has now been brought in part better than the population, apparently, in a much worse situation at this time. If you lean back and look at the suggestions that came from within the plot, I think it is quite clear that the country's population is in a weaker position toward the initial donations from around any Ministry, as this seems to you today. But I hope the next round will be checked, but this isn't a good thing. One point that I wanted to establish is a pure tax matter and one of the points the government has in his government covenant, and the majority of the classes spoke in the recent campaign. It's the insurance bill. Compare the insurance bill as well as the paypayers of the country with what was before a collapse when the percentage was 5.34%, compared with 6.87%: there's a difference. Today, unemployment is lower than at this point. Everyone in this room knows what this tax base is for. The lack of employment is less. The situation, however, is that the payrs of the country pay more than 20 billion per year for insurance, but they were doing so would be the same as before a crash. Everyone agreed that this would have to be done. The fact that this will be considered in the context of a collective agreement is not an adequate response. The situation is that there have been quite a lot going on in business over the past few years. In terms of the export branches, they have become very strong, making their situation more difficult. It is not as if salary has not gone up very much in recent years. Having the insurance bill and this huge increase in the taxation of Icelandic companies out of parentheses in the entire discussion and indicating that they will be reviewed in accordance with the next year's collective agreements is a case that has been held all too often. It must be addressed to the very first. The last thing I want to come into is our much interests in the Middle East. They're turning to a new hospital, a new hospital. There is no evidence to suggest that there is any interest in looking over head to head, even if only in a basic selection analysis, in order to make the decision to build up on the Ringway. First, the highest. The prime minister in the hall is not out of the question: Is it the highest? ▪ Prime Ministers are aware that in recent years and decades, it is advisable to build a new hospital where we can but on Ring Road? When you look at the data that have been submitted over the past few years, and now I'm going to be careful not to take very strong words, they're interpreted as very bludgeon to what is stated in the existing reports. There is a passage that says that the best option is to build on a different location but to be warned is to build on Ring Road. This is the thing I think it's very serious that men look completely by. It's a huge deal. Then, apparently, last year, the Vifil State is sold without permission. Now there is a warrant for selling the Netherlands, which is the two most widely discussed places in connection with a new hospital. Actually, that's not a new source. However, a simple local selection analysis with an opinion of the available data should be able to give quite a good picture in a short period of time. I want to challenge the highest. Prime Minister to have the prerogative to do that work. This doesn't take long. If we middle-class people get iced, we'll just take it, but I think it's worth one Mass to go through this job. Finally, I want to thank the highest. Prime Minister for My experience is that this budget bill is slightly left, there's little right in it. Tax rise immediately, the rate may decrease during the season. They're being examined later. Finally, I'd like to repeat my urgent effort regarding the management and transportation process and then reiterate my question to the highest level. Prime Minister, if she is ready to employ a local selection method that takes a short time. It is perfectly capable of making it simple. This will make humans feel much better about that decision rather than beat it to something that seems to be a misconstrued interpretation of available data.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór Ólason of Olei's three for an excellent speech. I agree with many of the things he came in on, including of the ongoing problems we know very well, which are local Parliaments that, at any given time, financial contributions are lacking in a vision, especially in these smallest institutions. Hv. A senator named the Homes. We can talk about education and the ever - increasing education institutions around the country. It has been evident that there has been a measure of confidence that the senators ensured that these institutions would receive enough money through the council. That work can certainly be improved. The government, on the other hand, makes extensive covenants that we want all the people of the country to sit at the same table and enjoy the same service on the part of the State. This, of course, is one thing to consider. Hv. A senator also mentioned that the time we had had to prepare these budgets was unusually short, but everyone was doing their best. I think that's exactly the way it is. What we are doing in these health, education, and transportation, however, is showing where we are going. Then in a financial program for the next five years to arrive at the spring Summit, we will be able to demonstrate more clearly what we will do during the election season. In such a short time, however, we needed to be able to take the lead in showing what we needed to do. We are going to go to major transport and education. During this brief period of time, however, we were able primarily to accept what was obvious as a way of handling without disrupting government affairs and also being able to do the work that can be carried out in 2018. The rest often takes longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u186	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation for the answer. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers in what he can see when a new financial plan is placed in place in regard to the implementation of the transport programme. A budget bill appeared more than two weeks ago, and I am giving myself a work start that has been worked together with the management conference on the big picture. It'd be interesting to hear what's at the top. A secretary of the transport sector provides information on the development of new funding for transport. There is no consistent relationship between the existing budget and the existing transport strategy. In either direction it develops, I think that in the spring when a four- and twelve-year transport program is being reviewed, we must resolve that there will be closer communication between a sound and a picture in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u187	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. Hv. The senator mentioned in his speech the expectation management and how members of the Parliament, especially the local primers, could survive the Christmas celebrations that hopefully lie ahead for all of us in the days ahead. It is true that in October 2016, it was bad expectation of the council to accept a four - year transport program that was 13 billion above the current budget. It sent a very wrong message. We still live to see that there is a policy of transportation, and hence, humans can always compare with that. Then, last year, the Senate added 4.5 billion and reduced the gap to 8.5 billion. So now we come a year later, reminding them to seven, which is quite effective compared to what was before. Regarding the maintenance of our transport edifications, these expensive monuments that we have failed to achieve since 2010, it was in 2016 about 5.5 billion over the next year, about 8.33/4.4 billion, which is considerably better. It is likely, though, that there are about a billion people needed to keep up with the maintenance work. That's one of the things to watch. However, since this joint, construction, and maintenance are about 20 billion next year, there are 11.3 projects. It's missing, as I said, several billion still to get this transport plan that I think everyone agrees with that was a little utopia and wishful thinking very many people. It was terrible to send her to the air. But that is exactly the challenge we face in the financial and transport programs, sounds and pictures that need to be shared, even if that is not absolute. But there must be a very small difference. [[The president calls.]] I hope that it will become clear in the first few months of the next year, and we may be able to review it better at the council in due time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u188	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for the answers. I'm glad he came in. A nail has been cut since 2009, I think it's safe to say. This is a scene some described as a ticking time bomb in our transport system. It is important to look to this as soon as you look forward to supporting the new aspects of transportation. Other than that, I look forward to cooperating with the secretary of transportation at the spring Summit regarding a four- and twelve-year transport program, which we will hopefully do well with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u189	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He directed to me a special inquiry regarding the location of a Hospital on Ring Road. Where it is. A member of the council commented on the fine illustration that a sound and a picture should be shared that I appreciated well. Healthcare Minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, assessment of localisation, including Because there had been a significant discussion of the local Hospital's choice of the Ring Road. It was in the government of that time. Prime Minister, w. Chairman of the Central Party, Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson, Davíð of Gunnla, this study. The location was covered. The result of this assessment was that it was best to build the hospital on Ring Road, and as a result, all members of the council at this time voted with a conquistador of the hospital's resurrection. That was after a considerable discussion about the situation had taken place. Hv. A senator calls for that discussion to be resumed. That discussion I first participated in 2007 when I was first the missus at the council. We've spent a considerable amount of time discussing the local situation, and I thought, in fact, when a unanimous accord was reached at the council that we had landed after all this discussion. I quote the assessment first why. A senator asked me specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u190	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. This may be what has been going on in the past year, and it is the evaluation of people who have taken deep into local selection devices that turn to the location of a new hospital, that the 2015 job was, unfortunately, likely aimed at finding the same conclusion as before. There are some factors in the process that suggest that we do so. Now I want to ask you a different question to the highest level. Prime Minister: If you succeed in proving that in the next few months - I do not intend to say that you have been cast. It is better to put the question this way: Is there any approach or assessment of the data that may result in the highest degree? The prime minister would be willing to consider a new statistical analysis or to consider the highest. ▪ The prime minister that the matter is settled and that it does not need to be considered?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u191	Madam President. Thank you. A senator back there. As I mentioned earlier, I have been observing this case since 2007. I've watched health - care counselors from nearly the majority of the groups sitting at the General Assembly treat this matter, and everyone finds the same conclusion. So I would expect the success of this building to be completed at the location agreed by the General Assembly following the 2015 report. I believe, however, that it is time for us to discuss the future in these matters. I don't think we Icelanders realize there's no chance that we're now building hospitals for the future. After some decades, we need to focus on the future position for the nearest hospital. In view of how long this location has lasted, I think that it will be the most rewarding thing to do than start looking for a longer time. Because we look at our neighboring countries and all over the world where hospitals are built every few decades. There is no need for us to start looking for long periods of time in that regard. But after my ten - year session at a council meeting, and having followed health - care counselors from very different categories, I trust the work that has been done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u192	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. Actually, it's a very important point to the highest degree. Prime Minister comes in here, i.e. that the hospital that will be built over the years will not be the last one to be built. In this context, last year's operation will be considered in which the Vifils Parkland was sold to Garða. Now there's a 6th on-line warrant. It's a budget for sale in the Köldnaland. There are no doubt many other places that would be wise to set aside for future use, if that were the case, that everything will be built up by the Ring Road. Tells you the highest. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u193	Now I can't get back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u194	No, I'm sorry, of course you won't be able to get up again. I'm just gonna keep flaying around here about what I think you should think.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u195	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u196	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is what my newborns and I are allowed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u197	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u198	But in that light, I think it would be wise to agree with our Middle Class proposal later today to issue a warrant for sale in Köldnaland. It is only possible to put it back into a year if you reach that conclusion. The idea of being sold unauthorized as random was experienced by the fact that it appears to be unauthorized. So I think there's a reason to prevent similar accidents in terms of the treehole while men lean back only in the chair and make decisions about the nearest hospital after the one they're going to build, if it's built on the Ringway.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u199	V.E.G. President. I couldn't help showing up under the budget and discussing only the settlements that appear in this financial bill of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. They even show up. in transport, where there is still considerable frustration. Certainly, an additional 755 million have been placed from the highest level. Transport and Regional Minister has accomplished three projects. It is indeed an important project, and I especially rejoice to see the way through the Cradle Valley in the motions of much of the committee, but here again too little is done. I can give examples of important projects that simply cannot wait any longer. Here are some Defesso Road. Fallos is the most powerful falls in Europe, and they are the result of the tremendous attraction for foreign tourists. This is a complete disgrace, Madam President. Can you imagine how access to the most powerful falls in Europe would be if they were somewhere outside Iceland? By completing the road, we also connect the Moy Lake Company with the Oxari Fjord and thus better open the availability of tourists to the largest low - temperature regions in the country and even the world with its unique natural and natural resources. It also stands out for a truly important task that would have an enormous impact on the quality of some communities, such as the road to the city's desert, the Valley of Bjords, and then I can't afford to mention one seriously shameful example of 60 West Coast Road. I know it's the highest. I'm going to point out that there was a financial strategy, but I'm going to point out that it was, in fact, a financial program far from being in harmony with a previously approved transport strategy. I hope this will be kept in mind in the preparation and approval of the next transport and financial programmes in our time, making sure that the financial agenda will be in accordance with the agreed policy of the council. Then I'd also like to mention the state of the county service that, according to the promises of the former government, was to be strengthened and enhanced by their expansion and unity, but as so often has it been betrayed and is the future of the county bodies in complete uncertainty. For example, there is the situation faced by the businessman in an Oriental country, but by the current bill, the office has been numbering 141.4 billion. K. from playing when it is known that the office's operation in 2016 cost 157 million. K. and it is clear that at this time of the year the office takes with it nearly 40 million. K. leaning into a new year. It is clear, then, that the mind of the Commission is not a means of strengthening and strengthening the district administrations for the country, nor does the bill give evidence of responsible planning, but, as discussed yesterday, something that is hardly acceptable. Most of the large desert policy, however, is found in budgets for health and medical institutions in the country. Despite a truly significant increase in percentages between the years, it is still in place and at the highest level. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir has reached 450 million. K. The increase to which the country should rejoice is clear that there is still a hunger policy toward health care in the country. If something is wrong, just take steps to strengthen the work and thus reduce the possible stress of the land hospital. I had a meeting with a body member earlier in the week when health - care directors met the committee, and their words made it clear that the situation is extremely serious. Finally, I have to mention yet another disappointment that I suspect at the highest. A marine and agricultural minister can agree with me, but there are contributions to research, development, and innovation in agriculture that are just cut down. Nor is there any increase in forestry. Madam President. Since I sat and dropped those words, I received a letter from Akureyri, a Christmas feast I'd like, by President's permission, to grab and share with you because I think the message is especially relevant to us today. The messenger calls his greeting "A Christmas Stekkjarstaur " in 2017:" A loaf is to be given to children at Christmastime. These old Christmas songs we sing loudly without thinking about what its contents are at a low rate during the season. Or are there some who might apply this, and how do we react in that situation? Or do we even respond to the needs of the children? On the other hand, the rule of the human race seems to be that Christmas bonus is very wrong, while one does not receive a Christmas bonus at 5,000 bucks. another unexpected Christmas bonus at 500,000 bucks. which can cause a great deal of bread to be eaten in that town. It may be necessary, however, to get ahead of the ◯ and it is likely desirable to be somewhat blue or green, as defined by the types of men whom we have chosen to take the lead. It is wonderful to be physically and spiritually healthy, and it surely saves both the expenses and the income of the nation. It's also called on the days of contending with our most economic growth. But how is it on the day of light? Does this mean that it is no longer possible to make bread for everyone? Are the newly baked loaves to those who do not get out of the ◯ and have to partake of them in the ◯bed, or complete oversight of others? I watched and listened carefully to the story of a man's wife with a mental illness. The state will be decomposed from the government for caring for her helpless husband for that alone, leaving behind a paid job, thus saving the State's expenses and fulfilling its purpose. What kind of treatment is this on the co-payers? What kind of slavery are people being put into? And now I come to the stuff that feels like a bruise on me these days. I'm a motorist and a little girl looked at me in my wheelchair the other day and asked me, "Are you a Stekkjarstaur? That gave me a role in Santa's game, but I didn't have the clothes red. It is so expensive to keep this Stekkjarstaur in the way that it chooses. Or might it be far less expensive to not allow it to leave the ◯ol to be obtained? This is exactly where we come to these bans, which are a health - care provider's fees. A stekkjarstaur must share the rights of the other boys, as well as the Christmas paradises, to participate in society without being filled with guilt over what he or she calls society. How Stekkjarstaur it is, then, for a woman who had prepared her conscience to give up her job outside her home and took full advantage of her pension! Because of this, she gives up her care benefits on the judgest, thus blocking his freedom of movement. To be honest, I thought this was nonsense until an expert on this subject led me to the amazing truth that it was right. Thus I finally realized that the old grass is just not dead at all. She's still on the road. She is not given the fact that her husband's son, Stekkjarstaur, is on her way at her expense and best to keep him in her ◯bed. Madam President. It is futile to talk about infrastructure and the application for the country's scattered settlements if these policies do not penetrate the government's budget. We need to do better for our country and country, and the government must realize that words come with responsibility. This is certainly an opportunity for the Senate to do so in the votes below by paying votes with the UN's amendment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u200	V.E.G. President. During the short period of time that has now given up between the 1st and 2nd. Yet, there has been no room to pay attention to both the original bill and the proposed changes made to the 2018 budget. You can't say that this bill alone is disappointing because I had no personal expectations for it. In itself, it is not good to place fingerprints like or second - rate fingerprints on that bill, so it is that 98% of all other governments and the natural officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and make these changes. The changes are so clear that humans have made the effort to survive with as little as possible. There is no particular policy in the transition between discussions. This is the way it was done in the old days when small airplanes flew over the tweezers and threw down carmells. It was by chance where they landed and by each prisoner. These forms of the greater part remind me a little of these carmels that fell out of the sky and no one knew where to land. However, there are a few things that need to be discussed with this bill, which is clearly a wrong way to do things. I must say, I disagree with the highest degree. Sadly, the prime minister, who is not in the hall today, when she told earlier about the Land Hospital at Ring Road that all reports made were told that the hospital should be on Ring Road. This isn't right. The first one was made to Fos Sog. At least two of the four that followed said: "If you can't build anywhere else, let's build on the Ring Way. There are, however, so many things in this matter. It's been 15 years since this matter had begun to be checked, and there's never been a real possibility of building a hospital anywhere other than me and Ring Road. All attempts in that direction have been silenced. This was shown by hospital staff at a very good meeting held in a Norwegian house in the fall of the election. It made it clear that the staff at the National Hospital at the Ring Road was afraid to express themselves on this subject. In itself, it would be a matter of observation to make a real view scan among the staff who are there every day. The recent loss has been experienced by explosions because of the explosion of the modern facilities. According to one authority, choosing a different location will delay the situation very much. That's wrong. What is delayed in the local selection, which needs only a few months, is won up at a level of construction when working on unmanned land. Aside from now on, people have backed up only in this struggle, those who want to build on the Ring Road, saying, "We have to build on the Ring Road while we're waiting for a hospital somewhere else." We're not building hospitals for one night. The oldest house on Ring Lane is then 1930. For the next 20 years, we are not cleaning up another hospital because it takes 20 years to build the new buildings at the Ring Road and to hang on the mold houses there today. No one in this discussion has, at least not now, and unfortunately I haven't any new information on it, trying to figure out how much it costs for essential transport workers to put the hospital on Ring Road. How much does the tunnel cost? What's the cost of the abuse of road meets there must be? How much is it gonna cost to put the Great Way in stocks? It's even the cost of building on Ring Road. They say the hospital needs to be near the university because it's a university hospital. It so happens that people who are students at the university are usually the best - aged and well - moving, much more mobile than those who are ill at the hospital. Of course, there is no argument in this matter. It is no problem for humans to attend a university hospital that is not within the university of the Radoms. It doesn't matter. I hope the government will abandon this old-fashioned thought and give a chance that it will be done in real life. Indiscriminately, there was a land sold in Vifils by the last budget known as a park park, as if it were just a potato garden or a kickground. Playin' back in Garville. Brilliant. I wanted to meet the author of this proposal. He must be smart, he should try to do the advertising. And that came through. But it's not too late to stop the Köldnaland going the same way. That is why we propose to make provision for the removal of a report in the current budget of the matter so that the traditional land is there, excellently located, in order to make use of it for this urgent matter. I would like to mention, as an obligation, but not all family, which I have emphasized, and we put much emphasis on in the Middle Ages, and we will offer suggestions below as we look forward to what will be paid at the Council. It's our suggestion that businesses don't spoil pension income. I admit I said before, there's no special disappointment in this budget bill, but maybe the main frustrations are that there was a big meeting in the leading election with senior citizens in the University of America this autumn. On the campus, the prime minister promised a university booth in front of 200 to 300 people that the holiday goal would rise to 109 levels. K. as it was before it was put down to 25 o'clock. K. We haven't been able to do this. I say again: It's an amazing idea of being able to make out of older people who want to, can, and are interested in working, crap off a fist, whether it's 25 yous. K. or 100 you have. K. 40% of income tax will be paid anyway. It's not a defence attorney, it's natural. There are some 4,55,000 elderly people who want and can win. Why are we politicians hindering these people from using their power? Why are we politicians preventing society from enjoying the knowledge and experience of these priceless people? Why on earth? And why on earth are we saying, "No, you can't work, you're old, just stay home." It was fine that the president of the older citizen's company in Reykjavík said in the University of England at this meeting: "We, though elderly, do not fall past the last day of sales, although a year is added. You're absolutely right. Why, then, are politicians at any given time to prevent people who can and who want to win, create a little extra money? According to one estimate, this means 2.4 billion. I'll let me doubt it. This is the calculated number, these are not new expenses. I guess this is what people think they're losing in over-priced pensions from the government insurance agency they wouldn't do. I say again, 40% of this amount, if we believe it, will return to income tax. What will elderly ones do to find more money? Yes, they will improve their standard of living and quality of life primarily, doubtless buying something better for their grandchildren, probably traveling. Is that bad? No, it increases the quality of society, increases the value of tax pay. Their job programs prevent social isolation, preventing people from becoming ill, which they often experience when they stop working. Again, I say, "Why do we have this precarious attitude toward people who have worked this country all their years?" This is a complete disgrace, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-8.u201	Madam President. This is how at the end of the discussion, I would like to mention that it seems that a foundation for the economy will be guaranteed for every health center in the country of nine. To date, however, it has not yet been guaranteed regarding the Land Hospital ◯ University hospital, even though it has been done with the eight other hospitals. But that's a good tone in the highest. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. Two, though. Let's finish tonight, without complete port, we still have to finish 3. Environment, after completing the budget, can also be assigned, and then the final budget will be completed for 2016. These are three ways in which money can be deposited. I will, as I have done repeatedly since my arrival at the council, watch that the health system holds at least sea. I'll be watching for the highest. Health Ministers cannot secure these funds into health care systems. The minimum is to keep seawater. Otherwise, it's a health minister drop score and the government's Supreme Government. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. We'll be watching. We're on the watch. Thank you.
