ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u1	Borist has received a letter from Óttar Proppér, 7th. We're out of here. "Where it is said that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Career's Eve list, Karólína Helga Símonardóttir. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed. Karólína Helga Símonardóttir has not taken up residence at the General Assembly before, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u2	Karólína Helga Símonardóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly. Borist has written a letter from Þórunn Egilsdóttir, the 5th. That's the north side. "Where it is said that she will not be able to attend next week. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district Linaka Anna Sævarsdóttir. In the past, she has taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u3	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 644, on health expenses in the North, from Jón Þór Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u4	The President has received a letter on the revocation of an oral query. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter again calls for an oral answer on the threshing floor. 4,334, 316 cases, technology and artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u5	The president would like to announce that at a meeting on May 16, 289 was the case, rights and duties of the state's employees (a violation of the civil rights requirement), referred to the Economic and Business Committee. However, the case was to be taken to a full - scale educational committee and has been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u6	A respectable president. I'm glad we're finally discussing Biffit here at the conference hall, going from the European Union, and its effect on the future relationship between Iceland and Britain, as I have requested this discussion since January. All of us realize that the British exit from the European Union is one of the biggest reports in international politics. Now, nearly a year later, it is appropriate to know what the Icelandic government has done in laying the basis for future contact with the British following their passage from the EU. To make this decision, I am fully aware that no negotiations have begun, and confirmed by the Supreme Court. Minister of Foreign Affairs it at the Assembly Hall on May 4 this morning. B cancerit is one of the most important subjects in the Icelandic foreign policy at this time and this confirms the government's declaration of policy. It says regarding foreign affairs, by permission of the president: A special attention must be given to a possible British resignation from the Union. A report by the Foreign Minister on Iceland's foreign policy requires that Bgreit be one of our major projects for the next few years. Then it's time to learn more about it here at the Assembly Hall each vision and policy of the government on Bgret and what Iceland has done in less than a year since the British chose to leave the European Union. What has the government done about this relationship? Who have been spoken to within the British government? Who has handled that interaction in half of Iceland? Has the importance of the whole case been put on prime plan? Have both countries been met by prime ministers on the grounds of Bgret? Not according to what I've seen and no plans there. If the policy is to achieve a special agreement with Britain, what issue does the Icelandic government want to stress? March 6th. said the highest. Minister of State, here at the council, by permission of the President: It is clear that Iceland is working with other EFTA countries on what is involved in the passage of the British from the EU. Is it the objective of the Icelandic government to concentrate on a two-sided free trade agreement with Britain or a multi-sided EFTA agreement or in cooperation with other countries such as the North countries? If the goal is to make a multi-sided agreement through EFTA, what communication has taken place? And what interests will the Icelandic government put emphasis on? Surely, all of us agree that it is of utmost importance to protect our fishing interests when it comes to conversation with the British, for Britain is one of our most important commercial fields for seafood. A report by the secretary of state policy of Iceland emphasizes that Iceland's main objective is to take care of the access of Icelandic enterprises to the British markets and to expect an even better access to them by Bgret than before. A respectable president. This has given me a profound sense of optimism, and the basis of such optimism is irreprehensible. I'm sorry, but I have to say that everything about Bfenit, especially in the Foreign Affairs report, is widely said and rather adheres. I have a certain understanding of this end, and the British themselves are struggling to hold on to this new reality in the European community, and the entire British government government is almost subjugated to Baltrexit and prepare for the formal exit. I would also like to think that we focus on things other than fish and fishing in our conversations with Britain, such as what future partnerships we should have in the fields of education, cultural exchanges, tourism, and flying opportunities and the commercial rights of Iceland in Britain and the rights of Icelandic students in Britain. In my opinion, it must also reveal what the government's future vision is, both in terms of Bgret and regardless, of our interest management and communication with the European Union. Will we make it a point to follow Dana's footsteps and strengthen other markets if the roads to Britain become tight? It has been established and decided by the highest power. Minister? It would be interesting to know if this work has taken place. I look forward to hearing more about vision, emphasis, and direction. Ministers when it comes to Bfenit and the communication between Icelanders and the British; each vision and policy. Finally, I want to emphasize the need for regular enlightenment on the progress of any discussion or communication with the British on the future organization and cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this matter into question, Britain's eviction from the European Union. I make it clear at the beginning of my speech that Bgreit is a priority for the Ministry of State and, in fact, more of the administrative system. This is a very large, broad and important matter of interest. To us, the next issue will focus on clear goals: to ensure a comparable or better standard for business with the Bgrets than the ones we enjoy on the basis of European agreements. The same is true of the rights of an Icelandic citizen in Britain. Of course, we Icelanders are not in charge of this matter. It is not up to us to determine how the British separation from the European Union will be affected, but we can have an effect. That is why during the past few months, I have exerted myself vigorously to converse with the members of this business. I've discussed these matters with the foreign minister of all the EFTA states. I have had a meeting with the EU State Secretary of State, Federica Mogherini, and the European Commission Michel Barnier, as well as a detailed discussion with the German foreign minister Sigmar Gabriel. Then I had the most recent meeting with the British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson, as well as with the stewards responsible for the Bgret case there, David Jones and Hands Hands. The message of Iceland's Government at all these meetings has been clear: We encourage the European Union and the United Kingdom to achieve a good deal between the two parties, which will continue to be based on free trade and cooperation in as many areas as possible. It is in the best interests of all, especially members of the European Union, who are very heavily involved in the export of Britain. There will be no winner if there are commercial pressure or barriers between European countries. There's only going to be losers. Of course, there are many solutions. There is no question about it, though, that there is great challenges in certain matters. But there is also opportunity in this situation. They will not be new by sitting and waiting for what they want to become. During the past few months, the government has worked hard to map our interests with regard to British exits. While this is still a relatively low dose in the process, the decision to make contracts between Britain and the EU is likely to become a free trade deal of a new generation of such agreements. It is not before the EEA treaties will in some way be templates for communication between the British and the EU. Much too early, though, is to predict that. On the other hand, it is clear that the government has produced a number of scenarios. First of all, Iceland and the British negotiate between a deep and large economic and cooperative agreement that underscores our close bond in all things. Then there's also the possibility that the EFTA countries will make such a deal with the British together. The third way would be if the EU/EFTA Convention was to take into account the EU and the British agreement. Of course, the possible involvement of the British involved in EFTA is also capable of being involved and involved in the relief network of EFTA. It may be different about the EEA, and it is important to clearly distinguish it, i.e. between EFTA and EEA. The main focus is to prevent business problems and maintain the acquired rights of citizens and businesses. The EU Convention has thus been divided between its individual advisers and asked to explain their importance and how to pursue interests with a two- side agreement. That focus is near the end of the job, and when the final analysis is complete, we will consult with the job and, of course, the current work. State Department. I would like to emphasize how important it is that the people of the industry are firmly involved in this important matter. In terms of specific interests, without a complete coverage, I believe Iceland and Britain have a rich way of working together. It'd be both ways to lift customs. My hopes are that there may be a way to prevent further taxation and even market participation. It will also be expected that the market will remain stable, and the British will need to rely on the import of such products for the manufacture of their own export products. Although our access to the European market for marine products is clear, toll collections are full, e.g. on certain products of salmon, mackerel, herring, lobster, and scallop. Moreover, there are other products that are of concern to us only limited importance to customs. I think it's normal to aim for a full vacation shop with a fish in the future business with Britain. Britain is already enjoying its full tax freedoms for industrial goods and marine products. The vast majority of agricultural products do not have any or negligible tolls, but commercial barriers are mainly involved in meat and dairy products. Then it is important that our powerful service company be able to continue its activities in Britain, so it will be important to negotiate for the continuation of business rights for services and make sure to connect rights from the framework we have today. International flight freedoms are one of the priorities. Another important issue is Britain's rights. They're well on three thousand. Of course, this is the priority for it to remain that way. I'd also like to inform the Council that the EU rulers intend to inform and consult the EEA/EFTA countries in a regular manner on the progress of EU and United Kingdom contracts. It is also noted in this regard that both Michel Barnier and Boris Johnson have declared an interest in coming here to a national conference on these matters. Finally, I would like to thank you for taking an active interest in this important matter. Forethought is a meeting on the Foreign Affairs Committee where I will make a thorough account of the situation and discuss its unique features. It is my will to have close and good consultation with the Parliament on this very important matter of interest to us Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u8	Mr. President. Britain will either reach a new vacation agreement with the European Union, and then in many respects based on the same basis as CEDA, or it will not achieve it, and then it will fall under WTO rules. It is unclear what the rights will be like, but it is clear that despite good intentions, they will become some. The British do not intend to remain in the inner markets. This will likely mean a significant reduction in the ability of the Icelanders to work, to run for service, and to serve in the country. This will have a damaging effect on Britain to form due to the elimination of foreign enterprises from Britain, as it is. magazines in the October 2016 issue of the Japanese Ministry of State to the British Government. This elimination could lead to a loss of employment for up to a million people in Britain in the years to come, the same risk could be for resurgence in Northern Ireland, controversy on Gibraltar and Scotland's independent fistula. It is clear, therefore, that economic, political, and social stability in Britain is in grave danger. It can have many impact on Iceland's situation, both because of increasing pressures on our social systems because of economic refugees from Britain, something we could hardly think of a few years ago, a lost business opportunity, ended in Britain one of our main trades. Maybe I'm filming too dark, but there's no way to know in advance, but recent reports in Britain and then in British politics have given very little basis for a bright picture. We must take advantage of the time we have made up of the EU's final exit to prepare our response with the objective of ensuring Iceland's economic interests, securing the position of the British citizens who live in Iceland and are in reality living uncertainly about their future and similarly minimising the damage that will clearly be caused by these great British conservatives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the Prime Minister, please. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir, for starting a discussion on this important matter today. I'm afraid that if she had directed questions to me, she would have had a little more answers than those that were highest. Minister gave it, but that may not be surprising, for we are the highest. Ministers not of the same category. V.E.G. A minister is a member of a group that speaks for the continued expansion of the European Union through the EEA, but I am in a development project that is thoroughly designed to explore and introduce to the nationals the benefits of full involvement in the EU, and then allow the nation to choose what they want to do with it. I understood at the highest. Ministers at the Parliament's press conference on a recent report that negotiations were not denied by the British on the major interests of Iceland. We've been informed at the council that we've begun our diagnostic work and we've reached the highest level. So a minister earlier how best to approach them, if I have understood him correctly. I'm glad, of course, that the Minister is going to continue this good cooperation and consultation with the Foreign Affairs Committee and that he is going to present the diagnostic work being carried out on by Bgreit in Iceland and Icelandic interests. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity today and ask the highest possible question. Minister: What expectations does a secretary have for a Borgit contract? What does he have in mind about what we can achieve beyond what we now have in the European Economic Area Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u10	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir for bringing up the matter of our great foreign nature as well. Secretary of state for his indentation. It is quite clear that this is one of the nation's biggest interests in foreign affairs, and we have considered it at the Senate Hall. As a minister of state mentioned, there are three forms that we need to work on. First of all, there is a one-sided agreement between these two states, secondly, possibly a two-sided EFTA deal and third, that the EEA should enter an outing agreement. I'd like to ask the secretary of state to follow if the economic analysis has been completed to evaluate the stage for both these countries and especially our national preparation. Secondly, whether the Ministry reviewed the EEA agreement and their priorities. There may be some uncertainty about this case between Britain and the European Union, but then we need to be ready even with some temporary agreement. I'd like to ask your secretary of state regarding this. A respectable president. This was the assembly council member of the synagogue, and she had to make a decision that she was a member of the Parliament at the convention. I find it completely indistinguishable that the president of the State Department is coming in here in a pit and is simply minimizing the national foreign minister's policy in terms of this sect. Would it not be much more honest for a resounding of this government community? I don't think it's an unannounced, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u11	Mr. President. Naturally, this debate has been the most focused on how to conduct contracts with the British by Baltrexit, by parishion, and by weakness. It is important that we succeed there, and we protect our interests in changing circumstances. I'd like to get another side of the story. If you take yet another lame illustration from the sports world, you can say that soccer players are two kinds: those are the ones standing on the goal line waiting for what they want, and then they spend the best of their ability. These are convenient opposers for the media. Often, though, they are the favorites of the audience, take many shots, and sometimes defend themselves. There are also the goalors who are more active in the game, play the game again, and step into the situation more quickly. Of course, there is danger of individual gaudy runners, but if you play well, you can avoid many shots at the finish line. Me and the Icelanders simply need to make a conscious decision on how we will conduct our foreign affairs, get us in a position to be active participants, or are we going to play back, and just always react to the same things? The results of the Bgret election were also that young people and especially women remained in the EU. It is boring to think that young people are missing out on opportunities for open international communication that give older people and especially older men, who have so far been a privileged group in society, could possibly prevent them from doing so. It is certain, Mr. President, that the emphasis on direct democracy will be on increasing in the future. So this should motivate us to use even more young people and especially women to act on national matters and to give them the opportunity to promote their views.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by saying with those who have said that this is an extremely important discussion we have here on Baltrexit, i.e. how the British exit from the European Union has and the European Union's post in it. I'd like to celebrate it especially as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, in fact, said in the past that he wants to have a good conversation and that he knows what to do. The Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the General Assembly on what is going on here. I think it is very important that it be continued and that it be. What bothers me a little during this discussion and may in some way be inevitable is that there are so many words, there are so many things said, but you really don't know what's behind or what's going to happen. Of course, it's good and important to make the best deal for Iceland, but I think it's at the same time very important that we be aware of the dark scene. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy drew up earlier and how the economic situation in Britain can become, that we always have both feet on earth in this regard. This can become economically difficult for the British, and thus for us Icelanders, because our business with Britain is so much and so important. This must always be kept in mind. Finally, I want to agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfjordsdóttir said that it is important to stress more than fish and perhaps more than business, because it is a matter of dealing with the nations in other areas. Then finally, I want to pray to the highest. Ministers merely explain their words about the free trade contract of a new generation of such agreements with the EU. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do those words mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u13	V.E.G. President. In this discussion, I give thanks for taking this matter on the program. Of course, we are in a position not to be direct readers in British resignations from the European Union and do not directly influence the way the British and the European Union negotiates these matters. However, as many speakers here have visited, our most important business territory is Britain if individual countries are taken. Since our relationship is far more extensive than our business, more factors and absolutely important to us that we are on guard and protect our interests when lines begin to become clear. It's like the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has already taken important steps to prepare, we can say, the Icelandic administrative system and the Icelandic foreign service under this assignment. It's supposed to be a celebration. At the same time, we should rejoice that this course will continue. It is important that we take advantage of the possibilities we have, both at the level of development, but I also mention that it matters at the Senate site that we present viewpoints. I have to say for myself that in my recent experience in dealing with British politicians, I have learned only a great deal of understanding and interest in finding a solution to Iceland's and United Kingdom relations after this change takes on effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A advocate for this important discussion, which can be drawn from many viewpoints. One of them is what we can learn from Bixit, and the significance of this momentous national law for democracy especially democracy. If there's something Bbifit has shown us here on Fonón, how tragic it can be when we do not cultivate democracy and its foundations in the community. Most of all, I refer to democratic consciousness and democracies in the community. Bbifit showed that young people were less involved in national pay, but they had marvelous consequences for their future. Similarly, the dramatic vote of voters showed that much of the voters'choice was based on ignorance, which included Britain's meddling in the search terms of the European Union? There is also the fact that the reaction of national payment was characterized by a greater foreign spirit, which repeatedly indicated that Bgret's ability to extricate the immigrants who have made Britain their own country. If taken together, these factors should serve as a warning to us. We love democracy, and we can come together and give a little more support to our democracy, our democracies, and our consciousness. We can promote democracies in elementary schools, schools, and colleges, promote a democratic sense in society all through progressive education and consultation, and we have found in many parts of the country. We can resolve to promote the democracies of young people in particular, for as in Britain, the participation of young people in Iceland begins to decrease in elections. This must be a major concern for all of us. Finally, in October 2012, I can't help referring to our new constitution, which was adopted by the U.S. National Court to restore a new and better democracy on this land. In Britain many votes chose against their own interests because they felt that their vote did not affect the community in which they lived. If we continue to ignore the people's will, it is not to the point that we will personally face the decline of democracy in Iceland with unforeseen consequences. Let us learn something from the British. [[The president calls.]] Work for democracy, cultivate it, and respect the nation's desire for a new constitution. The democracy deserves it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u15	Mr. President. It may be right to make a decision in the General's symposium that it is important that different views of different categories of different categories of views are held up in the Assembly Hall. That's what we're elected to do, and that's how democracy works. Of course, I'm worth the highest. Secretary of state and foreign policy, and it is very well presented in a government contract. But it is not supposed to block the freedom of speech and the freedom of thought when it is presented in a perfunctory way. I would like to introduce my second speech to only the challenges of Bgreit that are introduced in the Foreign Minister's report on the most recent foreign affairs presented at the council. It discusses the fact that the EFTA countries differ in terms of Bgret and negotiations with the British. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that a common surface could be found with other EFTA countries in negotiations with the British, although only on separate or specific factors, and if so, what factors it might be. The report also presents challenges when it comes to negotiating a flight, which is an enormous interest in us. I'd like a Minister to see if any diagnostic work has revealed evidence that we are able to negotiate comparable agreements as we have now. For the Icelandic citizens who live or study in Britain or who are interested in it in the future, and I would think that it will be a challenge to secure the interests: Has anyone ever gone to work to start securing the interests? Are there any indications that a minister can tell us how they will discuss? The Makri is another big issue for us. The report specifically states that the increase in the contract may not have been the simple negotiations to date. There's an increasing misunderstanding, there's no denying, for Iceland. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister sees how he can cope with that challenge. There's a lot of interest, and I'd like to ask a minister if he can see that this is an opportunity beyond what we now have in the agreement with the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u16	A respectable president. I think this discussion shows how important it is that this body of Congress is very well involved because there are so many touching books. I also welcome the introductions that come from many members of the council, not only about business but also about education and increased cooperation and cooperation in these countries. That is why it is so vital that we are well prepared for this party. I'm just going to get into what the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee called. Of course, there is freedom of speech here. Of course we should communicate. However, it is now that if you introduce an election policy, to form the interest and wish to join the European Union, if none of the goals are reached in the agreement that the group makes, it is called in a simple... honorary president. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a very sensitive thing to do here. Senators of the Revolution will come here and will not allow the members of the council to finish their business. It shows that you are touching some extremely delicate spot. Of course, that's not good enough for what is. Senators of the Cradle. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Can I get to finish my case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u17	The president encourages them to give a good sound to a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u18	What's probably a little painful is that it's called a simple Icelandic campaign fraud. It's an act-of-the-art fraud. [[The point is, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, ……]] Oh, boy. Except, of course. The important thing is that Iceland is prepared well. We need to focus on it. I have to say, I like to hear how a foreign minister gives information to the council on the progress of the case. We need to be united in this great sect and not lose out in any detail in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u19	A respectable president. Britain's resignation from the European Union has caused agitation in the continent's communities. The narrative was a dispute at home with Scots and Northerns protesting and it was adopted in a national law of little difference. Many feel that those associated with the Commission voted on pretexts, as victims of single - sided lawsuits, that the speech was similar to that of opposers here on the full and formally part of Iceland's community in Europe's society as a result of a series of judicious judgments, big talks, prejudices, and superficial fear propaganda. Let us not forget that no single political action in modern times has provided the common people in Iceland with as much prosperity, progress, and improvement as the membership 25 years ago. While it is a flash of paint today, it is in one side that is so grueling, or should we say that the joy of destiny, that the concern and seriousness of those who were strong opposers of this element is now about how we can best protect our valuable benefits when one of the Member States says that they leave this nationalized partnership that it seemed to be in their time. It's just a positive attitude. Good for normal people in Iceland. It is not easy, respectable president, to understand the reasons of British authorities for guidance, which may be mixed with them that they have over the years acted like an elephant in a glass warehouse in dealing with their own citizens in their own country, including. Community countries and other closely connected countries have not yet been able to keep normal international relationships on equal lines. But the conclusion is this, and we who believe that free and open communication between the nations will bring us increased prosperity, as has proved true of Bfenit. Our relationship with Britain is very strong, and our interests are severe, commercial and cultural. Hence, it is reasonable to examine how we can best maintain a good bond despite the efforts of the British people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and members of Parliament for a good participation and interesting discussion and good entry into the wide and important discussion that is available to us Icelanders. I'm glad to hear it. Secretary of State is heading for deep and wide economic agreements and is heading for a full-scale vacation shop with fish in their dealings with the British. That's very interesting and full of news. It is also vital that we hear it from the highest level. Ministers will inform us about the communications of the EU and the British in their talks. But I also want to believe that Iceland has independent foreign policy and must protect its confidence when it comes to upholding our views and interests. As someone mentioned earlier, there are words to follow, knees to follow, and, unfortunately, I have not seen any earmarked funds for our interest management when it comes to dealing with the British after their exits and their passage from the European Union. That is why I would like to hear it from the highest level. Minister of State whether he can support himself in providing more money for this interest and how. Then I set aside what I came into my talk, and more people have talked about, including why. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, that the Council is regularly informed about the development of matters when it comes to our Bgret and future dealings with Britain. This is not the only time we're going to discuss the big issue here, for as the discussion has shown and proved, it involves very important groups of people, not only the economic agreements, but other relationships, which I don't doubt at the height. A minister will feed, and I encourage him to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. The participation in these discussions is shared by the advocates and other members of the council. The answers to many of the inquiries that came out, I traced in my opening address, it's just been missed by someone else. Councilmen. As a result of this discussion, I'd like to say that it was a little special to hear in some members of the council because whatever we feel about Bgrett to or from then on, it was the pessimistic predictions of Bgreit that lived before the elections were not left behind. There was a special debate in British national affairs on the subject of expert conduct, and some have apologized for what they predicted because it did not work out. I don't know how it's possible to predict in any other place what British people do here in a Senate hall. The point is this: We began to prepare this in the past government under the leadership of the then foreign minister of Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddóttir. We have continued to do so, not just in foreign service, but in all the administrative systems. We have also attended all those parties, speaking to all the parties involved, as I specifically traced them. Their attitude has been very positive. The British view has been very positive when it comes to dealing with them. We cannot complain about that relationship or attitude. Because people talk about some things, we set the goal high. We're not here to be defensive, we're going to go on the offensive. We're going to try to get more access and better communication. The conclusion must be determined. We'll do our best, we'll be clear. The same with the European Union. We can't complain about the attitudes we've developed in our relationships or in the EFTA countries, but they'll work out. Hv. A senator asked me if we were going to strengthen other markets. I think it's a core, no matter what happens with the British vacation shop, we need to take care of it better. That's why we're even. in this assessment of foreign services, and it's stressed about the future free trade agreements that will be made after British exit that we and the EFTA countries can benefit from them. But here's the point: We can use the vacation contracts that we now have. [[The president calls.]] We'd have to discuss it specifically, Mr. Honorable President, in this councilroom. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u22	A respectable president. May 3rd. was my inquiry to prime minister, to inform the public and the media, to be distributed in the General Assembly. According to the Parliament, it should be aimed that the minister will respond no later than two weeks after the release of an inquiry. During the last Monday, ministers came to answer the council inquiry, and I expected a prime minister there to arrive, which was within two weeks. I was asked if I would meet with the inquiry I had asked, and of course I was willing to do so, but prime minister canceled. Now that the deadline has passed, I could forgive it if the prime minister would be there today to answer my inquiry, but there is no prime minister here, even if he is here in the afternoon. There is also no request for an answer. Also, there is no need to postpone, for the question is not complicated, and I have even asked prime minister the same question before; he just didn't answer the question that time, so I ask again. A respectable president. I guess the prime minister will be assigned to the conference hall to answer any questions directly addressed to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u23	The President has heard a case. A senator will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u24	V.E.G. President. During the past few years and decades, urban areas have grown as well as transport has improved in many areas. At the same time, significant changes have been made in the development of habitats and employment areas. People in the defined urban areas that have increasingly been looking for employment in neighboring towns and rural areas, so the definitions and ideas of employment have been changing. This trend has resulted in growing employment areas and longer trips to and from work. These trends are positive and strong, but problems also include growing employment areas and long - distance trips to and from work. It is necessary to increase the impact of public transport in each sector, where a wide pot is broken. Clearly, in some areas of employment, there is no public transportation to distribute, and there is a long way of going to and from work. During recent conventions, there has been some problems. The panel members offered suggestions to meet the travel costs of individuals for travel to and from work, but the case has not been achieved. A major reason for this is that the procedure induced by some sources is said to complicate the tax system. Because of this, the system designed to serve the country's interests seems to serve itself. Our proposal. The senators of the forward party agree to the Supreme Court. Prepared by financial and economic secretary, and present by the General Parliament a bill for a law that includes the highest authority. A minister to organise and set rules about the taxable men who pay high costs for travel to and from work, regardless of travel procedures, within certain designated national employment areas, a discount on income tax. Thereafter, the highest. Minister and lay down those rules. This case was reassigned during the current council but failed to be fulfilled. It is a small change that the proposed proposal involves more transportation than automobiles. That pattern is also true. Pick up Danmerk. I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural development, as this is a community action if this was achieved, whether he approves of the community procedure I discussed above. My question to the highest. the minister of the law is therefore: Is he in favour of the community procedure that the cost of trips to and from work will be deductable from income before taxing? In this way, we could strengthen the scattered areas of the industry and build up certain settlements in this country, which are very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this question. I think we're here discussing a case that can be important in running a real development strategy. The changes that take place in the country in particular are in many great numbers, up to that much more dramatic, as we see that the more recent decades and even more time, have contributed to the most solid, fundamental, such as marine soil and agriculture, will not do so in the coming decades and decades. Thus, a wide range of employment opportunities must be looked into throughout the country. This may mean that there will be a greater transfer between cohesion of work force within any defined job area. This will be one of the emphasises that will be drawn to a new community plan for 2018•2024, which contributes to the reduction of costs of daily travel between homes and workplaces in rural areas, smaller urban areas. A job application area where people can go to work every day from home has increased with better transportation. The objective of such an operation would be to make it easier for those outside the capital area to get work to and from their home. The strategy is set up to set up a staff that must be written the rules for the implementation that citizens living in the ESA's funding will receive some of the expenses for travel and from work paid through the tax system. At the development of a new community plan, there were some. conducted meetings with a meeting in each part of the country. It presented a high priority on transport as a basic prerogative for the national employment and services services services. The Vegas Roads within the national part of the country control the areas of work, areas where residents can travel daily between home and workplace, as well as service areas, to areas where people can attend basic services. The transport program has a strong correlation with the emphasis on previous urban plans as well as the emphasis on meeting new cohesion. In fact, public transportation is not an option to travel except to the largest urban and surrounding areas. Remuneration in the form of tax deduction is able to cope with inevitable travel costs and support for rural and smaller urban areas. There are many examples of this. A senator came in. A key strategy is to balance the opportunities for all the people of the country to work and to serve. I quoted earlier on an ESA's map, and it's good to swerve only for those who don't know well what it is. The ESA is a so-called based map, agreed by the EFTA Monitoring Centre, specifying the area of Iceland where community support can be provided. There's an ESA's community support guidelines. In those areas, ESAs can also allow Iceland to provide community support. In fact, the ESA defines the whole country outside the capital area as one area in this context. This also applies to the so - called law on the intention of developing employment tools, new investments in employment, whether by foreign or domestic bodies. It is based on this built - up map that has been approved and is actually very broad for our large country. I'm looking at the Ministry to see if there's any reason why we create our own based map within this ESA, where we actually look more closely at the areas that are isolated and where job structure is more difficult. I think comparing the situation with, for example, is unrealistic in many ways. Southnes and many other parts of the country and there is good reason to examine whether we should build incentives so that areas that are more efficient than others who may be closer to the capital area and not as needed to build up for a career.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u26	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Transport and regional minister for very clear answers. I'm glad that this is one of the measures highlighted in the strategy that will arise. V.E.G. Ministers say it's even there. Look at the ESA's based map and that we will even work on our own map and with stronger measures to these isolated areas. I'd still like to ask the highest. Local minister in the area of the capital, I want to take the example of Aranesp. There you apply for 2 of them. one in seven. live in the area where people work or school in the capital area. For the past many years, that is going to be 20 years, they have paid dues, and this is a dissatisfaction because there is no objection. I'll take it from the highest level. local minister to see if there is any chance of a tax charge due to the expense of getting to and from work in the settlements around the capital, whether or not it can be used to prevent road charges, and whether there is some way to look at those materials? If you don't, I'd like to thank you to the highest. the minister of law for the answers he gave in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u27	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we watch this case not necessarily with very strong myopia glasses. We need to watch the bigger picture of this, I think it's important. I understand the situation, e.g. on Aranesp. In fact, in that area, over the past few years there has been an enormous amount of work development. This is the area where growth may have been the largest in the country in population growing. They have a very strong employment area in Europe and other countries that have created good jobs, stable and well - paying jobs. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at this. I think that must come into the ideas we're having general opinion against charges. The situation is now, so the Hafjörður tunnel must be paid in less than a year. It is expected that the State, or nation, will receive them for their final possession. Then, of course, we need to evaluate it and be examined, as people know, to have further work related to paying on more than that route. Otherwise, I would feel like a price to be taken out of the Halfjörg tunnel unless it was marked by some special project. I think we must examine it then in all such subsidies that there is some considerable greater benefit in the regularity of those who travel through such a pay gate, so that there will be savings during travel time, fuel costs weighing against at least the expenses people face. There we are considering a number of exports and ways that come out of the work of the Committee at the beginning of the summer. [[The president calls.]] We will use the summer to work with them and see if we can present further suggestions to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm going to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation whether he intends to employ himself at Alexander's airport and make him a reserve airport for the Akureyri Airport. The inquiry I made at the General Parliament for the winter sounds this way, but I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and ask if the airport could become a reserve airport even before Reykjavík and Egeil State Airport. As many know, there has been an enormous increase in the tourist currents to the country. Most of that tourist current comes through Keflavík Airport. There, as we all know, this has brought us tremendous stress. It is responsible to look at another port into the country, it has, in fact, been done, and some airlines have been found there in some cases. We're gonna go for a second. The panel members suggest working on travel policies, and on that occasion it would be wise for us to make better use of the airports in Akureyri and Eglslands. As an incentive for airlines to use that airport more, lower return charges could be applied to Akureyri and Egress sites. If this were to be achieved, it would be most desirable for us to have a spare airport in place. Then Alexander's airport would be very desirable for that assignment, but as we also know, there is a short distance between the Akureyri and the Rooflands. Alexander's airport is well located. That's a very good approach. It is wide and has little to do with obstacles. The airport points north, which are also subtractive winds in those areas, and then the location of the field is favorable for snow. So the advantage of building Alexander's airport as a reserve airport may be. It is obvious then that such an airport will serve Akureyri well as a reserve airport, ensuring and trusting the important activities involved in traveling and flying in general. In this context, there is also the patient's flight, which is an important part of our health - care routine. I say again, what I started, and I ask the highest. A secretary of transportation whether he intends to employ himself at Alexander's airport and make him a reserve airport for the Akureyri airport, as the inquiry would suggest. Also, I ask if Alexander's airport could become a reserve airport for Reykjavík and Eglish Airport and if it is being worked on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u29	A respectable president. Almost all the domestic flights are being run from Reykjavík's airport. Plane flights are supported to six airports in the region, i.e. To the birds of Gigri, and to the mighty men of war, and to the Trembles of Thors, and to the Horni, and to the valley of Biludah, and to Gimney. As a result of making a decision on a planned flight, the objective of a transport strategy was to establish that its inhabitants were secure by transportation so that it would take no longer than three and a half hours to travel to the capital area. This time, three to three and a half hours, is also a good indication of when people generally begin to drive in excess of their flights. In view of a road connection between the Sheep's Cradle and the capital, as well as a link with Akureyri, and then from there, it is assessed as reaching this goal for the inhabitants of Skavegur. The figures on flights in the 2013's, when flights from a sheep's jar, also show that the number of passengers began to drop rapidly, but it may be possible that the number of passengers back in the years and up from the year 2000 was quite well over tens of thousands, but during those years they were remembered as 2013 at 1,400 passengers. This, along with the appearance of The Rock's tunnel, was evidence that flight to Alexander's airport has not been supported. Until 2013, air support was provided to the airport because of the transportation to Sigludur and nearby areas. Istavia has mainly held the airport as a landing site since flight support. The field has been used for hospital flights when needed. No developments have been on the course for a long time, so it is clear that cost would have to start a regular flight to Alexander's airport again. Light equipment is old, has to be repaired, and facilities have not been maintained. Unchanged, then, there is little chance that the sea will be a planned flight to Alexander's airport. This was tried in cooperation with the country society of Taolf Heavens, but was removed at the 2013/2014 season. Because fewer people made use of the flight than expected. Great investments would have to be taken if a flight to Alexander's field was to take place. For example, plan flight is at Húsavík Airport. So he can also use as a reserve airport for domestic flights in Akureyri. Pilots haven't shown this much interest. Despite a number of attempts, they have been unable to launch international flights to the defined international airports we have at Akureyri and Egls. There are ideas about how we can fix it. I think it would be very positive in many ways if we could contribute to a direct flight in this part of the country. We are trying to develop ideas that are thus subject to them. As an example of the need for building up between international airports, if Alexander's airport is to be used, such as air - protection status, the renewal of wear and flight equipment. The cost of building up has not been accurately measured, but it can be estimated to be up to two billion. In fact, with a spare airport, it's very interesting because we'll have to look at things in particular in order to build more intensive service to a spare airport in Iceland. Because of the increasing international traffic, it is a concern that if anything happens in Chefavík, which will result in a longer or shorter period of closure, we need to answer where we are going to put the aircraft on the way back to the country at that time. We're still looking at that point. Of course, it is based on expanding the airports and having the organization in such a way that it can go up straight. Whether or not there's any such solution related to this airport will have to be made aware of this. I had a meeting on Thursday last week with a rural government in Skavetir, where we particularly covered those matters. The local people are very interested in starting a regular international flight from Reykjavík to Alexander's airport. We will place the matter in a specific direction, which will be considered in connection with the revision that we are going to undertake regarding international airport operations in general. I believe it is of utmost importance that we look for practical options for inhabitants of certain areas in the scattered areas of transport. This requires that the price of international flights to the public in these areas be reduced. It's too expensive. That's not a realistic option for most people today. It would likely translate an increase for those who go less often, but with a changed management arrangement, a change in the focus of the government's budget has been referred to as ways in which people are exactly seen to be in the fields that enjoy the initiatives that come along and thus become desperate for domestic flights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This could be a basis for a restoration of domestic flight to a sheep's coven.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u30	A respectable president. I have every reason to reconsider whether the government should strengthen domestic flights to Alexander's airport, which has not been flown for a few years. The leaders have changed. We have this great number of tourists, up to three million this year, and if there's no such thing as the demand. That is how the market law is. There's a lot of investments, and maybe it's going down. It's always more expensive and expensive to restart an airport like Alexander's airport. I feel that they should be allowed to enjoy the doubt and make an experiment to a certain time and see how it comes out. I think there's a good reason for that. This is one way to distribute tourists across the country, to use the investments we have, and there is a need for a reserve airport. These airports - I'd also like to mention the Tingeys Airport - have been submerged, and men must get their grip on these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u31	A respectable president. Thank you for calling attention to this important matter. I accept that word in a positive way. Ministers that have an opinion of the international flight in general and that they should work to make it a practical option when it comes to public transportation for the more populated areas of the country. In my opinion, all too long, the discussion of domestic flight arrangements has been caught in a tire ride that turns toward an airfield in the Hydromycin area or not. Meanwhile, we have allowed airports in many parts of the country to drudgery and not provide sufficient care and have not had enough policy in these matters. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister into his earlier word, when he entered that with a changed flying strategy, it could possibly be possible to take the so - called Scottish way. What's at the top? A minister when he speaks of a change in domestic land airports?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u32	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A secretary of transportation for the answers. I'd like to say something, too. Congress members who have participated in the discussion that it is important to reevaluate and strengthen domestic flights because we do not have the same basis today as we were in 2013. All of us know that there has been an enormous increase in the growth of tourism on the land, and we need access and better transport on the air and on the land to help spread the tourists around the country. I'd like to ask the highest, too. It's the same as the secretary of transportation. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé asked: "What does he mean by the changed domestic planning? It is very important that we here at the council get information about what it is. And I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir It's not yet time for the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands to go on an experiment to see if there's any domestic flights. in Alexander's airport. I think it's very important to be working on travel policies. I'll count and we'll what. The senators of the People's Party that if we put on a reimbursement rate higher in Keflavík, lower in Eglís and Akureyri, it would be an incentive for airlines to land there. Of course, they have to look at their business at various fees. We need to do more intensive air service, watch flights to Reykjavík and the country. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for his answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u33	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. In general, members of the Parliament have changed much in transport because of the increasing flow of tourists into the country in recent years. Of course, there is something that we need to consider and see if it can strengthen the foundation of an internal flight, not just to a sheep's jar, but to other parts of the country as well. Home - to - earth flight is economicly practical. We've been examined. Therefore, it is practical to advance the international flight outside that, of course, it changes very life conditions, we can say, in the country, that it can fly and drive its errands back and forth on the same day. That's exactly what it's all about, that it's a frequency that serves the needs of local people and occupations in these places. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé asks me here, and more indeed, whatever the transitions are in the operation of national flights into my history. I mentioned that a so - called Scottish route was being considered, in fact, the Norwegian process. These are ways that these nations have done fine things that will change a little business both the flying whales and the international flight as a whole. This is based on the fact that inhabitants in these areas have access to access, and international flying will become a more practical option for them. It can mean that the people who are being strengthened by the government today and that their own flight plans will be taken to the inhabitants, and they will be paid just the normal fees to run this airport at their landing. That means, as I said before, that a flight can raise something to other people, who less often use this route. Is it time to experiment? Yeah, I think it's time to experiment in itself, but I think we have to prepare it very well, so that what's set up is very realistic, we're walking out of the assumptions so that there's hope for this to go, but we don't do an experiment that might run out into the sink and the case's dead. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u34	Mr. President. There has been a tremendous increase in traffic accidents, normal to the rate of increased traffic, especially in foreign tourists. In 2014, 123 foreign tourists, including 21 of them, were seriously injured. The following year, 213, 26 were seriously injured, and five died. Last year, there were 223, 43 of whom were seriously injured and two died. Relatively, the Chinese were the majority of the people who were injured in traffic last year. Afterwards the Italians and the French arrived. But what is the explanation? Much has been said about the fact that the Asians do not have to take one expensive course and teach and are known here. Even some people are said to have never been driving or to have a test in a driver's emulator, since circumstances such as these may not be expected, including those listed above, are not expected to occur. In sharks and on narrow maladies, which is where most of the traffic accidents have occurred, i.e. on dirt roads, and then there's been a considerable amount of traffic in a cane. It is also true that the use of cars seems lacking, especially in hindsight, but in many places it is not legally bound. Admittedly, many international travelers are more accustomed to driving in big cities or using public transportation every day. That is why the vastness facing them is unknown, and we see them even. Cars are stopped in the middle of a highway. We see tourists inspect horses, sheep, or northern lights and do not think directly about road traffic. Prevention is important. A fine example of this is the cooperation between the Chinese embassy and the Association, where much has been translated into Chinese, driving instructions, road signs, and so forth. Now I know that a Chinese driver's license is required to have Latin letters or translated by a legal translator. Also provided is the educational material of the House as soon as they receive visas on the passport, a teaching video is shown in Icelanda's recreation system, but there certainly would have to be more planes to do. Car rent has also increased the training to drivers by setting, for example. sticker to the wheel with information, the full need since we have heard of accidents that could have been prevented by various procedures. The most serious example I've heard of is an employee who worked at a rental airport at Keflavour Airport, which spent more than an hour teaching the car to the driver, who simply couldn't change gear and had no skills to put in reverse. Shortly thereafter, this person rolled over the truck on the Smokejanes Way. Fortunately, this is not common, but there seem to be too many foreign drivers as are those who assist them with such stories, but not as serious as these. I see my time is up. The questions are presented to a minister, and I hope he can answer them. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish whatever's left for later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u35	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, though, acts on a subject that is somewhat under discussion and is well - thought - out. If I go through the questions asked, then these are the answers: Yes, foreign tourists may drive the vehicles permitted by their valid national license. However, on the basis of diplomas published in the states outside the EEA, you must not drive vehicles for employment in this country. The certificate is required to have Latin characters as determined by the base. Senator. If this is not the case, a certificate must be provided in English, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, or English. The subject then needs to meet the criteria set out here. I refer to my previous answer regarding the rules in which driving is granted by a state other than the EEA. In the United States, similar rules apply to driving licenses published in a state that is not a member of the European Economic Area. Such a certificate gives the owner the right to operate the same vehicles in this country as it allows them to operate in the publishing country. The certificate is valid for up to one month after completion of fixed living conditions. The same is true of people who come here as tourists and stay in a shorter period of time. Whether similar rules apply to Icelandic driver's license in other countries depends on the rules set by the State. Driver's license will take care of registered vehicles. They are allowed to rent the vehicle to someone other than those who have the right to operate the vehicle on which to rent. However, they are allowed to negotiate a contract with a nondescripted driver's license, but they need to appoint a driver who can drive the vehicle in writing. That driver then needs to meet the conditions mentioned above. Rules on the recognition of foreign driving rights in this country are in line with current rules in other countries. You might want to check whether a national driver's license should be submitted with a national certificate when the certificate is issued by a state outside the European Economic Area. International driver's license is primarily a standard translation of national cards. A large number of counterfeit international driver's licenses have been in circulation, so there is doubt that such a demand will increase safety. You're absolutely right. A senator came on, there is an increasing danger of this heavy traffic in our transport system, and in fact, there have been examples of foreigners who just stop at roadside and begin to examine horses or other things in nature that attract their attention. The highway system reflects the savings taken after a collapse. For example, consider road markings that have been extremely lacking in recent years. If we drive along the highways of the country, we will notice that there are many lines that break lines in the side of the road, where there should be a full line. This was done for savings. This tells foreigners who are on the move that it is safe to stop there. Then we come up here and shit them, but they think they're gonna follow the rules, these tourists who come to visit us. We increased contributions to the road generation to the maintenance factor from 5.8 billion last year to 8.1 billion this year. It will be seen in many parts of the summer, in traffic signals, large safety points in traffic. Clearly, we need to stress traffic safety. Since we have taken a big step, such as. Just in the doubled part of the Rhine Way, all traffic accidents have been significantly reduced. This chapter was designed to make the most common occurrence of a fatal accident in our road system. There has been no fatal accident since that road was doubled. This simply tells us that with the real structure of our transport system, our road system, this challenge can be successfully met. Perhaps the most economicly practical thing to do is to reduce road accidents and improve transport. It is on this very basis that we have started this job, which has been a bit controversial and has been talked about, in starting a campaign on the basis of some kind of payment, where, in particular, would be looked at the massive flow of highway workers, that he is involved in building up the highway system, making serious efforts for us all, and thus hopefully taking a very good part of the great cost of such projects. It is of utmost importance for us to remember that we are 340 you. a people in 103 of yours. square miles of land. [[The president calls.]] It's expensive to build wood in such a large country. We have achieved remarkable results and can compare ourselves with Dani, who are less than 6 million. They're building an infrastructure system in a country about the size of a South American nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I could now talk to him about transportation for a few days, about our road system and all that. But I'm gonna try to stick with what I was wondering, i.e. A driver's license. There may be many consequences when there are no increased demands, or there are ways to walk, e.g. make sure that you fake international certificates. We know it's people who buy degrees, not just in college. I know an example where a man living in Denmark bought 200 dollars for a driver's license, that was as simple as that. He felt no need to take a driving test. Some people do not have that attitude, but in view of our situation, it is dangerous not to be able to determine clearly whether a certificate is really valid. Then, of course, it's cultural differences. I'm not going to overlook it. I'm not sure I'd be very good with traffic in China. But that does not change the fact that we must respond in some way. I agree that in many parts of the world, everything in the law needs a wide range of roads, so it agrees with international standards. I'm not going to make the road in a financial way not to let things go where security is really lacking, or there has been reason to do so in particular. However, we need to ask ourselves: " Is my card not in China? It's a little interesting to wonder about that. It has been suggested that as a result of an increased number of accidents, the urban pay of legal car insurance is likely to increase in the general population of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] As consumers, we need to be alert.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u37	A respectable president. Yes, there are many factors to consider when it comes to the general issue of accidents. I only reviewed that this actually involves much more than this possible driver's license. It's a problem we know, and I've heard the stories that go wrong. A senator refers to him. We, however, have not been confirmed in this regard. Despite the search for cars, because we hear a series of stories, nothing has been specifically confirmed there. It's interesting to remember that if we looked at fatal accidents last year, there were 18 of them, 14 of whom were Icelanders, 2 tourists, and 2 immigrants. Icelanders are concerned about the number of accidents involved. If we look at how we want to reduce accidents, for example, they have. The number of alcohol and drug abuse increases dramatically. So the issue is not isolated from what has been discussed here. The case is much bigger. Transport security, improved markings, e.g. By bridges and such by sides, by the side of the road. What I traced earlier, about meaning, was done in savings at the time. We've made a substantial increase, and I expect it will take place all over the country this summer. There were 215 serious injuries, 151 Icelanders, and 47 foreign tourists. It's way too high a ratio. This is way too much. So we need to look to all these factors. I think it's probably a matter of special consideration. A senator asks about this subject. But I'm just trying to draw attention to the fact that this alone is not going to bring us the benefits we want to see, i.e. that there will be a significant decrease in the number of accidents in Iceland. There are other factors, increased education and a much better means of transportation, a campaign in that area. I think that can lead us very strong in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u38	President. In par. 24th. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people involved in education, which includes the permission of a president: ▪ The Member States recognize the right of disabled people for education. They shall, in order that this right may be realized without discrimination and that all may have equal opportunities, establish educational systems at all schools without separating and continuing education aimed at it: a. to increase human capacity to the full and the sense of inborn grace and personal value and to increase respect for human rights, freedom of human beings and diversity, b. that the disabled may grow in their personality, abilities, and creativity, with their physical and mental abilities, c. making it possible for disabled persons to be active participants in a free society. The General agreed in September. to validate this contract. In view of this, the Arts School in Reykjavík has invited the Ministry of Education to continue the study course of diplomats in the arts for those with developmental inhibition. It can be done at the highest rate. To find out that tomorrow, the graduation of 12 students who are finishing this course, as well as the proposal for the Arts School in Reykjavík to the Ministry, is dated February 17, 2017, showing that the cost for each student is less than $2,200,000 per semester. This is a way of changing people's lives, a way that allows people with development inhibition to use their abilities. As stated in recognition of the course of study, the Murdermis, on the Testimony Fund during 2015, according to the President's permission: The recognition is granted because of the progress it has for the benefit of such an opportunity to study as it does for art. To improve the development status of artists and to give people the opportunity to develop their skills in a professional educational environment, the education program is an opportunity. We are talking about keeping this course going for $6 million a year. So I ask the highest. Minister: Will the Art School in Reykjavík guarantee the money to continue this diplomat school? Second, do ministers see changes in the role of the ongoing education and the knowledge center Polyester when a service contract for its operation expires at the next year's convention? Third, what is the opinion of a minister of the value of a chronically disabled person's education, and how does the minister feel that ever and re-education of disabled persons should be carried out on the basis of financing and execution?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. So it is first to answer that, in accordance with the Service Convention, which is in force between the Polymenium and the Ministry of Education and Culture, is written by the Multi-American and member of various seminary institutions for their target groups. In 2015, for example, the National Society signed a contract with the Arts School in Reykjavík about a two - year diplomat study with the view that one group could complete the study. This deal was a two-year experiment. In the autumn of 2016, the department's financial situation was the assessment that this study could not continue to be supported. In force, there is a service contract between the Ministry and the Watchtower School in Reykjavík that runs out on June 30 next year. This agreement does not contain any diem studies in the arts for people with developmental inhibition. That's why this deal is special between the University of America and the Arts. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator noted that the School of Photography sent a message to the Ministry of Ministry in February, the 17th. But I don't know that number, 6 million, just like that. A senator mentioned earlier. On the contrary, it reminds me that there is a number that the Polyglot pays the School of Photography, but the School of Art takes out two times that amount, or a high figure of 12 million, two years ago. I'd like to keep it in place in this regard that negotiations with privates must have the right approach. They must be professionally built up and financed. The rules that we are required to do are required to do so. There is no need for policy development in this field, nor is there a need for analysis. Both decisions need to be made before deciding whether to enter the diploma study into a revised agreement with the school. I have no reason to question the benefits of the work that the Watchtower School in Reykjavík has built up in art art art art arts for people with developmental impairment. On the contrary. I don't want to belittle the situation. However, this does not change the fact that there is no special authority for Ministers, whether in the budget of the year or in the regulations, to take this matter for some special benefit to him alone. However, there are less special financial resources available in this regard. Secondly, why? A senator sees changes in the role of Polythecologists as a service contract for the business expires at the next year's convention. According to the work of reviewing these contracts, negotiations are going to begin in the fall. In such discussions the role and objective and other terms of the contract will be reviewed, as is generally done in reviewing service contracts. In this regard, I would like to have simply an analysis of the needs and demand for the ministry, an examination of how it will be funded. It is our common task to make good use of public funds for this purpose. I can fully describe my view that it would be desirable to have these factors, but it certainly has to do with the last question. The senator's opinion of the value of my ongoing education for disabled people and how I feel it should be carried out in terms of financing and implementation. Whether in high school or after, there is no question about the importance of a person who is disabled with quality education. Some four - year - long study courses for disabled students in high school are very limited today. As we know, there is a legal foundation for such a study very ill. It is found in the laws on higher education. In this regard I think, and in fact, I've been talking about the Ministry, it's time to start an overall review of legislation on adult education in Iceland. Such a review might include a number of factors, such as Icelandic education for adult immigrants, democracy, another name for a community college, as some call it, but most of all to strengthen the foundation for the study for disabled adults. These are ideas that, in my opinion, could well be implemented and discussed in connection with a review of law No. 27/2010, for the continuation of education. I believe, in view of what is now coming up, especially with study for disabled persons, that it is a long time and, in fact, an urgent time to initiate that review. Of course, the need to identify and assess the costs of the present arrangement and to visualize whether and how access might be increased, especially the diversity of studies for disabled persons.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u40	Mr. President. I'm going to start by thanking the captain very much for bringing this matter to his attention. I think it was now a more complex and difficult subject we've faced here. I'm just saying to the highest. Minister: Now you just tell us what to do. If there is a lack of authority, let's face it. I know we'll be reunited here at the council hall. But I notice it and rejoice at it. Foreseeing Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Savvarsdóttir, a private school in Reykjavík, has begun to care for some of the private schools. Perhaps it is good to know that in the future, we will join together to make real use of the energy of a private school with a government service contract, as we expect to be done here. It's a cause for joy, and it makes my little conservative heart rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u41	Mr. President. This is an important inquiry as long as possible. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir agrees with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and what it says about education. The fact is that disabled people in general have seen shorter and fewer education than those who are disloyal, and this is a major concern because education is so important in order to be a part of society. So I want to direct it to the highest. A minister in general - because I felt that this was true in his case when he answered the questions, "What work is so bad when it comes to the education of disabled people? " Although this is the case in a certain narrow context, I wanted to use the opportunity to expand this and to speak only about the education of disabled people in general, for it is so clearly done that despite the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, it is still quite unworked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u42	Mr. President. Of course, this is about doing well with people with or without development. We can look at theART project at Selephoss, which has been under the Union of the Southern Company. It has cost tens of millions of dollars each year, and it is now successful in ensuring its funding. When it comes to the diplomacy, it should be, not a matter of formality, but of willingness and success in the improved living conditions of these people. These are, as we have seen, 12 million to two years. In many places, however, some sort of rescue measures are required, but this is so that they can do so. I'll tell them what to say. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who spoke before, said that we can find this money. For example, there is something called a special enterprise from the government, and I encourage that to be checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u43	Mr. President. I thank you, too, for this discussion. We're talking about change in dollars, though, which will ensure certain human rights. Of course, that's what it's all about. It's a pleasure to hear that it's the highest. So a minister is thinking about reevaluating the legal frame that is on this and more. It is very important that disabled individuals who have a measure of developmental inhibition have the opportunity to continue after high school has ended. So after working with such people, I feel that this is an important community, and there is often not much else to go away after finishing high school. Therefore, it is very important to ensure a wide range of resources throughout the country, not just looking to one particular school here, but to look forward to seeing students who do not go directly to the traditional university levels for opportunities to attend and continue to educate themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u44	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of this and other members of the council and the minister for the answers as far as they could reach them. I think this is so that the Minister can step into this position exactly now, as it appears, with the help of the council. I hear what you're saying. The head of the Economic and Business Committee believes that such agreements are in place, or may be present, under special payment at the General Assembly. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister would like to address such a route. I'd like to mention it too, because of what happened. paritaprevir Óli Börn Kárason had a history of the above, that the Artlist School in Reykjavík is a private property institution and must not take advantage and negotiate with the State for a unique task, including: This. I'd also like to mention it, because it's the highest. A minister speaks of the lack of policy in this case group, i.e. In terms of these specific pathways, the real policy in the case is the Convention on the Rights of the Infirm. It is a policy that we have undergone and including the highest. Minister. The minister must accept responsibility for his part of that contract by showing in a handsome way that is, in fact, equal to education regardless of disability, as are other social factors. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. In accordance with administrative legislation, a minister of whether and when he intends to respond to the School of Arts in Reykjavík, which is in the Ministry of February 17 of February.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-22-67.u45	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. It's on the ground so everyone here has expressed themselves has a lot to do with this matter. I'm glad you're here. I'm pointing out what. The starter should be that before the minister takes his responsibility, he must take into account more factors; he must have the assurance of having the funds for the procedures to be taken care of. It is true that policies are in the roughest picture, in the agreement on the rights of the disabled, which we have confirmed, better yet. But like a dog. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said it was also about ensuring more people than those who hear about this one school. The balance must be valid for everyone. That's why I mentioned it here in the introduction that there is no policy or needed analysis on how we should react to it on a national level. I point to the fact that next year the deal with the Arts School expires. There is no simple thing for the Ministry to add to such a contract without logical support other than what has been presented, some unsolved funds. I'll just mention it because there's a why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said it was not a question of shape but of will. In many respects it is true, but not altogether. There is more to it than the will of the council or the individual. We must build what we are doing, and we must rely on a source of law and order. This is a spontaneous requirement that must be applied everywhere. I thank you for the discussion and the great willingness shown to resolve these factors. I will try to apply myself to achieving a sensible conclusion, whoever it may become.
