ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u1	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Justice asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 461, of the arrangements made by the Council's Reconclusion No. 49/145, from Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, asking for cover. 394, for unsupervised children applying for international protection from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u2	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer than the Council to state the need or at least until the discussion of the 7th session is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u3	Madam President. Once again, the government intends to go past the council with large decisions affecting Icelandic society without being asked by a king or a priest. It is now due to make the High School of the Year's League part of the Technical School, and the privatization leaks in uncontrollably without the arrival of the council. I'm most surprised at the bright future, and I'm revered to enjoy this miserable government. I don't think they've done anything more than Loðvík XV.. By their motto: ◯ It'll last while I'm alive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u4	Madam President. I'd like the President to take advantage of the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education and Culture will be here to answer in view of the obvious intention of repeating the game, since we all remember the Supreme Court. Minister of Education and Culture to the highest office. A health minister, when he completely passed the council with the decision to run clinics in the capital area, under the rule of the law that he had without a democratic consultation, under a date discussion. What to do now at the highest. Minister of Education and Culture? Yes, there is going to be a personal development by uniting the High School of Annual Technical Studies, which is certainly a private exercise without any discussion at the council, without any date-date discussion taken at the council scene. And the explanations given are that the reduction in high school students is to be dealt with, and he speaks as if it were some physical nature rather than the political decision that independents have made not to allow students under 25 years of age to attend a book study and to shorten the high school with a one - sided decision for three years. [[The president calls.]] This is not an acceptable practice. [[The president calls.]] I'll make that claim the highest. Ministers, report to the hall and answer for themselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u5	A respectable president. It is surprising that the government is acting in the way it does, making decisions without the presence of the council, especially in view of the highness of the work, my willingness, more transparency, more consultations, especially to the lesser ones. It's like the highest. A minister of finance, the head of the Resident, suggested that a team of work be added to the General Assembly and to a government contract, the declaration, were clearly required to improve the consultation with the smaller section. Now, the question of the year's special selection may be that it should be private to the whole street, because we know that the government is privatizing health care across the road, and now it's on that side of the street. It's a question of what road next will be - without the arrival of the council, Madam President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u6	President. Like other members of the council, I was shocked to hear news this morning of these latest plans to privatize the entire year. I feel that there is no consultation with the council and that such procedures are carried out without a complete review of where we are going. What is a bit sad, and it was very clear when negotiations were between five categories of possible government jobs, that both a restoration and a Bright future did not intend to become part of any personal development in the educational and health systems. It seems that we are now associated with the Independence Party alone in this administrative work. I would like for senators and Ministers from Reunion and a Bright Future to say their thoughts about this kind of work, because it's not in the spirit of an open government here promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u7	A respectable president. It is now being fulfilled that we were most concerned with the development of this government, that it was to practice right policy here, a very hard right course with a personal interest guide, without consulting the Council, trying to go past the World Council, past the public. What talk has taken place in the community about what happened in the news this morning, about the privatizing of the Monarch of the Moon? None. There was no discussion on the Board of Education, no discussion at the General. I'm asking, "Does this really mean the future? Was this revealed to a bright future? Were they informed of this? Do you want a privatization of the P.R.S.P. with close eyes on the Council? Is that what we're talking about? I wouldn't be surprised if I told you that because there's a right category there. But I ask, " What exactly is the position of the bright future? ' [[The president calls.]] Is that class worth anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u8	A respectable president. This is a familiar theme we see here, that the privatization of the vital foundation of society is being carried out quietly. There has been no discussion during the council or whether the education system should begin to be privateized. This is the first step in it, in effect, the second step toward the privatization of the high school system. The first step, of course, was the 25 - year rule. [[Up front.]] How are we going to tackle this? What's next? Should the university system be privatized as well? Are we going to be the private stock of Icelandic students? What are the following steps? As with the health system, I think we're looking at the funeral of the education system - and it's going to go quiet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u9	A respectable president. What is the value of government policy when there is no such plan in financial planning until the next five years? Indeed, the financial program puts government policy on every subject. Nothing about this at high school. V.E.G. The Minister of Education was at the Committee the other day presenting her policy for the financial agenda for the Committee and nothing about it. Nothing. No disintegration. So it's not to guess where these numbers come from at all the financial sectors. Except maybe now, we see, because there was criticism from the Schools Department and others, they didn't understand the amount of money at the high school. Now we may understand it. This change in numbers is clearly expected, but not in text. This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u10	A respectable president. There was no particularly joyful news that I received this morning, as did other peoples, that there was a private basis for the High School of the Day Day. I have to say, though, that it was like a cold water main, it is not surprising. It's interesting to me that the minister noted that there are various ways to respond to a reduction in high school. I would like to point out that Technologies School is the largest school in Iceland with over 2,000 students. This is about the year's multilanguage school. 900 students plus one to a long-term high school. For many years, the High School of the Year's Day has been thrown out of the blue. Is it about to bring a fat bite in the mouth of a private high school or something? What will be next? Now it seems to me that Kristján Þór Júlíusson has become the undertaker of the Icelandic state-running high school system, and he is now giving it his lifesavers. [[The president calls.]] How sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u11	Madam President. At one time, there was a high school in Reykjavík, a high school in Hafnarfjörður, the Sólven School, and the School for the Arts, but now all of these schools are under Technical School, which is a private school. Today, the High School at the Year's Day is to be run to the same school. V.E.G. A minister of education says that it is in order to increase the number of students in high school. Have all of these results been evaluated? Have the results been appreciated by moving high school to Hafnarfjörður under Technical School? During the last year of the Hafnarfjörður School, 508 students were there. The number of students in the High School of Technology increased by 149 as they joined together. Does it indicate that it is a good way to increase the number of students in high school to bring together high school schools under private school? Where's the success estimate? Where's the logic? Where's the policy? It's a monster. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The point is, where's the Minister?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u12	Madam President. During these last five years, we have been debating a proposal for the resolution of a financial plan for the next five years in which the government's long-term policy is to appear on every case. Still, we first heard of this planned union on morning radio news. Madam President. These reports show not only that the Independence Party continues under cover of night to provide personal health and education systems without speaking to the council. This also shows that this long - term policy limit is a lie. Here we have long-term policy issues that are not associated with the plans for the future personalisation plans for the right government. There's nothing in this record about the harmony of FEI and the Technical School. What else is there in this piece that will be carried out under the cover of the night?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u13	Madam President. Sadly, these are sad news, and they continue from the last government to the present government. I cannot help but agree with those who have talked about the fact that Technical School is taking over and swallowing one school after another. How can the future ever be settled toward that, or perhaps, a restoration? Here's the former minister of education today at Recession. It would be interesting to hear her point of view and other restoration people, how they feel about it, and not just if this had been discussed. Is this your course? Is this what's to come? Do they like the reduction in high school students? Are they satisfied that 25 years of age do not have complete access to higher schools or would they want to change that? Are there 1,700 million gathered in school cuts, as shown in a financial program, out there, and starving other schools? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. There's talk of goals and standards, and I want to hear what's right. Bjart's chairman, who believes that this was an evaluation according to what she keeps talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u14	Madam President. I'll be like the rest of us. Councilmen condemning that method of operations at the highest level. Secretary of Education and Culture... that we're getting word on the news in the U.S.R.... that there's a privatization of one of our best schools. They're delivering our jobs one piece of high school and we don't even know about it. V.E.G. Of course, a minister should have taken the initiative to inform the General and Education Committee on these plans, and I'll be along with others. Councilmen in the memory of the General and Education Committee requested a meeting at the highest level. Ministers in which he realizes why he chose not to inform the committee on this and how it is possible for us to learn only through morning news that there is yet another privatizing program in the education system. It's natural to be completely predictable. It's not supposed to be tolerated. I ask, " Where did they improve the process of working with this new government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u15	Madam President. I feel compelled to remind the administrative part that he has less votes behind him. They're here for my part of the voters in this country. They feel that they can make such policy decisions without even turning to the council. A smaller part of the voters supports them and a smaller part supports them today than did in elections, since they did not mention one word before elections. Listening to the leaders of these groups, the board of directors, who spoke after elections about the conclusion of the election, showed that there was a great need for broad appeals, big consultations, changes in practice, increased conversation - they did not have much to say. They're all the words that don't mean what they say, that the least part of the Council has to listen to this in the news, and that has listened to the members of the jury speak for policy without bringing up that one word -- I think it sucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u16	Madam President. It is no wonder that members of the council are appalled at this practice, but unfortunately we know them from the Independence Party, they are not strangers to us. V.E.G. A minister has long been doing this work, now as a minister of education and formerly as a health minister, working behind the scenes to cooperate, and working to bring employment into the hands of a public high school. Of course, this is not acceptable. It is no wonder that the administrative body is in this discussion because it is a disgrace to the council, that the execution of the execution was so on the filthy shoes of the council, and that should be done as hallelujah. We can't live with this kind of work. This matter must enter the council. We've seen that it's been working behind the scenes; the reduction of high school, the 25-year rule; and so on, the clinical record. [[The president calls.]] We have to say, "Here and no more."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u17	A respectable president. I make serious comments to the Generals conference board, but not necessarily this meeting, and just the ones we found. Not long ago, a few days ago, we had an excellent meeting with a high school minister of education, where we discussed the financial program. There was no evidence in that meeting that two schools could be united. Nothing. I simply ask, " What happened in a few days if this is going to happen now? ' We've also been included in the Committee calling for a meeting for the future of training and education, something that is what rural areas around the country call for. At least when we spoke, the voters of the Independence Party could see that the policy was to ensure that money would not be reduced into the high school compared to the financial program supported by members of the Independence Party. I ask, " What changed? ' [[The president calls.]] Aren't the senators going to come here and say it's their responsibility? [[The president calls.]] That they are the ones who are being cut off from the previous financial agenda? [[The president calls.]] Or is it the Minister himself? [[The president calls.]] We need to know. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u18	A respectable president. There is no ordinary occasion here to discuss the President's conference board. We're talking about changes in Icelandic society under cover of night. We are talking about such practices that they cannot be described as trivial or even dishonest when a member of the seminarary body meets with the Council of the Council and does not record these plans in a single word a few days ago. I'm asking you, was this in the government? Did they discuss this at the judges' meetings? A respectable president. It is my requirement that the minister be called to this meeting, and we re-examine the day's program because it is so important that we can pray with everything else until the Ministers get out of the way and discuss such a big matter with the Allied Council of Iceland, who is seated, for information, on the Council's commission. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u19	President has been investigating where the Minister of Education is, who has announced to the council this afternoon. He'll be overseas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u20	Madam President. Thank you for giving me the word that I had not, in fact, requested. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, I will use that offer. Here we are taking another step in privatizing the high school system. V.E.G. At the Ministry of Education, a minister of restoration, a seafaring minister, and agrienvironmental minister. Now to proceed. The course for which the Independence Party has made its market and for both a restoration and a bright future will now be up - to - date. No assessment of progress of previous personalizations. No policy. No plan. Just the idea that it's better to hand a government business to a private member. It's not the public's interest, but that's what we're supposed to do in this room. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u21	President. It has now been shown that the minister is not in the country. Therefore, I would like clear answers to whether the minister was firm in this decision. I think it's absolutely necessary, and I insist that the Ministers who sit in the government with the highest degree. Minister of Education will answer for this decision. I demand to hear from members of the council the greater part of whether they have been aware of this decision. If they don't have the courage to come up here in the Generals speech chair and report them, they're more cowardly than I would have thought. I want to say, too, that I think it's amazing how this government behaves. I think it's amazing, Mr. President. These fine senators, who later became ministers, proclaimed quite another practice. I have not seen that they worked here on the Generals or how the government is acting against the council. It's a disgrace. This is shameful. I just want to say, you people who are part of this government, be ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u22	Madam President. Is this not an example of how little respect this government has for the council and for the public and disrespect for democracy itself? Could there be a reason why there is no consultation and no information to the council on this plan that the Independence Party and other government groups know that the public does not want further privatization in our systems? It is not supported, but the Independence Party feels that it knows better what is best for the public. He assumes there's gonna be a riot for a week and then he forgets. I urge the public not to miss this. I encourage the public to rise up, because if we forget this after a week, this will happen over and over again, because they are confident that nothing will be done. I encourage the public to speak up and express their opinion as to whether this is the future of Iceland that Iceland wants to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u23	Madam President. This is totally unacceptable work at the highest level. A minister of education, the need to appear in the press to privatize high school without any discussion at the Council on that matter. Of course, it is particularly shameful that this will happen at the same time as we are discussing financial programs for the next five years. Since the Minister isn't in the country, so I don't think he can come here to stand up for his case and have a conversation with the General. Mr President, the Minister who's in office for him while he's abroad, come here and answer questions. If there's no minister for the highest office. A minister of education while he's away will come to the highest level. Prime Minister to the highest task force. Governments, this is a conversation. This conversation can't wait. It must be done immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u24	Madam President. We met so well this morning, there was a meeting at the General and Education Committee. We had just heard these reports on the radio for the first time when we attended a meeting of the committee, which a week before met with a minister without having heard of these plans. There we agreed that a minister had to attend a meeting of the committee. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, is in contact with the minister. He'll be there, meeting with the Committee, tomorrow and Tuesday. The second meeting will be open and live on the Generals web, since answers to these questions must be presented to the public. Since the Minister can't be with us today at an unprepared time of inquiry, this is the next best thing we can do is take him into the committee meeting and discuss matters with him in front of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u25	Madam President. As mentioned here, Ministers introduced the financial programme to the General and Education Committee. Why did he keep these plans? What is involved in concealing such plans? It sounds like the head of the General and Education Committee had no idea of this any more than any other member of Congress. It would be interesting to know if members of the management board knew anything about this, because they won't come up here and say something. Is this professional? No, it's not professional. Does this support equality for study? No, this does not support equality for study. This is because I wonder if the budget of this government can be settled. I don't think so. Are there other ministers who can inform us here, who are traveling around the house, for ahead of us is a vote of some big deal like what is under today? Clearly, this is the way we are involved. Are there any other big cases? [[The president calls.]] Because the hold is very much in this government budget of the right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u26	A respectable president. It's amazing how this process works. Here, the Commission finds a mountain back route by the General and the public. It's annoying. Here we are set up, faced with the word or next. I'd like to remind you that when you decided to shorten your book study, i.e. A study for a student's test, down to three years, claimed that contributions to high school would not be affected. That is why I find this union strange, especially since it is not particularly similar to schools. The Annual Pioneer School offers health studies. There's little to it at the High School of Technology. For the most part, the High School of the Year is a book school, where technology is primarily a technical school. I also ask myself, " What schools will be next? ' What will happen to all the small schools in the country if this is the size of the more favorable management unit we're talking about, over 3 thousand people a school? There's gonna be a lot more schools to combine here, that's just the way it is. How sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u27	Madam President. Now we're going to hear an ancient theme saying that these may be just some depression in the board of directors and that no decisions have been made. I would like to state that we have reliable sources of at least One of the schools reported this to its closest colleagues but was made to keep quiet until a minister himself was suitable to announce it publicly. What kind of conduct is it, I ask people, to let the school staff live uncertainly and let their superiors be confidential so that they can't even tell their people what is coming, because a minister wants to do it himself? Then we just get to the point that there's nothing. Wouldn't it be more honest and noble, especially now, to come clean, to say things as they are rather than to let dozens of teachers live in doubt for some more weeks to satisfy the vanity of the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u28	A respectable president. I'm sure everyone can see that these devices are unacceptable. We can't hear about it like this when things like this happen, just from the news. In fact, it's another dollar in my distrust suit. But I wanted to step up just one other matter so as not to interrupt too much. Yesterday, the President's conference board was referred to as the reply period for queries. I cleaned up and calculated that time of reply. The current council is 27 days of reply time, active days, and 17th for the members of the council that are last to answer. The assembly that was the longest to answer took 38 days, the last assembly. 27 days when the criteria are not acceptable. We need to do better. I expect the President to insist on giving the minister and the Ministry a clear answer at his appointed time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u29	A respectable president. I think it's time for the president to call a platoon leader. We here see in very few cases that the Ministers do not have a legal obligation to give information to the Generals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This is a legal obligation, and counselors are required to answer when asked. Under the top coverage. There was no evidence to show that the education minister for the financial programme should be private such as one school, plus/minus. What's next? It doesn't say anything about this in a five-year financial program. Then I must know, as chairman of the council for my party, what is this plan for? Why don't the Ministers answer? Why don't the Ministers do their information duty to the Council better than they do? Why do we find ourselves in such a hurry to see that this kind of work is being practiced? [[The president calls.]] President. I demand a meeting with the President as soon as possible on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u30	A respectable president. I hear what's said here, and I'd like to inform the Senate that there will be two meetings with Kristján Þór Júlíusson on the General Information and Education Committee, on the other hand, tomorrow and Tuesday. I'm, by permission of the President, to quote the government's declaration of policy: ▪ A student's equality and freedom of choice must include building a wide range of business plans. Of course, when it is clear that a reduction in the number of 620 students in the capital area occurs between 2017 and 2018, there are still some factors to consider. This is one of the things I've been talking to a minister. I can agree with what's been going on here. The extra funding is needed to strengthen the interior of the school and the necessary renewal of its facilities. However, school problems will be solved not only with increasing financial contributions but also with regard to the planning of the school system for the future. Teamwork and partnerships may include increased practicality in school management, but they can also improve the quality of teaching and the wide variety of educational opportunities for students. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u31	President. How healthy it is that we do not share a vision of all creation! The Senate will likely think that we will be dealing with it, and that is what we should do. But in order to do so, things need to be put forward so that we can do so. The worst outcome is when things leak without control into a course we haven't discussed, and many of us don't want it. I have respect for many of the members of the board, please. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson, the chief. The minister of Sigríður Andersen, who sheweth himself honestly, and sheweth his opinion, and pleadeth his cause. I feel worse when ministers come in unsubstantiated queries and always agree with everything. And the worst is the worst. A minister of education who usually goes to the depths and does not comment on radar immediately while taking an unpopular case. Now I pray that he come up to the surface and say his opinion on the matter once. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u32	Madam President. The right categories, the Independence Party, the Bright Future and Action, certainly have it on their personal policy list, but they don't talk much about it before elections because they know that a follow-up would fall off if they started talking about the fact that there was a privatization in the health system, a privacy in the education system, etc. Therefore, they will not be afraid to promote these views until they reach the carnivores and are able to manipulate these matters behind the scenes. I say for my part, and I'm sure a lot of other senators in this room, it's just dangerous for the council to go on vacation. If they can do this during the council, what will they do not introduce this to the council? What do we expect when the council goes on vacation? Don't you think it'd be better just to bring your sleeping bags and be careful? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u33	Madam President. It is good, though, that we have a radio to hear about such momentous events as these. A minister's conduct reflects wrong, and I call it dangerous practices. I've been looking over this room. Looks like the highest. Ministers in the woodlands do not have to be very critical. That may well tell us a great deal about what's going on. The same can be said of senators, senators of Birt's future who hold their peace, senators of resounding. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the General and Education Committee: What about education is not to appear before the General? The thread is precious. It's easy to undermine it with this kind of work. We have another type of work to do. I believe that the prime minister, who is the manager of the government, should come here today and be an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u34	A respectable president. This is not the first time ever. Ministers of Education sneak into the private industry in the middle of the night without asking anyone to leave, either the council or anyone else. We remember that it is not long ago. The minister of education held the health minister's position and had a discussion with a private member on the construction and management of a private hospital in Mosfellstown without knowing a king or a priest. It required that both members of Congress and the public read about in the media, just as it is now. [[Up front.]] We now have funds for the government's high school program, and this is the result. At the same time that the High School of Flensburg is building sails, divulging people, and cutting down services, this is the result. It is no wonder that exorbitant is a part of this privatizing industry, for we saw similar practices in the modern minister of the marine emissary and agricultural sectors, the Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, when she served the minister of education. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u35	Madam President. There is nothing to be surprised about, though the minister of the Independence Party is privatized in the shelter of night and is then careful to stay in foreign lands when news comes. The highest audience. The prime minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson and chairman of the Independence Party at the annual meeting of the National Association of Professionals understands the context. There was the chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The prime minister cried out about this and cried out about the burden of personal and private employment. The people would just need a change of viewpoint, the minister said. He had no doubt about the course. Independence groups do not have anything to do with the fact that the people of the country and the people do not want this personal business. Still, it continues. It's like this. Mantran's speeches, the dogmas of life, and although the people don't want this, it's still going to be continued, even if it has to be done under the cover of the night. The interesting thing here and now is: What do the following words, restoration, and a bright future say? [[The president calls.]] Were they the kins to enable the Independence Party to do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u36	Madam President. I think everyone is fully aware of why the lndependence Party wants privacy. That's practical. Economics are the most important thing, but how would it be to encourage people to study rather than to manipulate the educational system? An investment certainly has the point of privatizing. Instead of privatizing the school because there are too few students, why not stress to find out why there are too few students and try to find solutions there? If there is an advantage in the fact that most people are not educated in Iceland - is that a long - term economy or a short - term economy? Don't we want to have educated people in this country? Or should all of this be privateized and done so that only they could afford to learn and others can continue to slave for no money? What kind of community do we want to live in, and why is this debate not honest, so that the common people there have a voice and can tell the Independence Party what it really is that we want to see in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u37	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister is here in the house. So there is really nothing wrong with changing the meeting schedule and giving it the highest. Prime Ministers come and speak for the policy of their government and answer whether it is, in effect, a personal education system and even some other aspects of Icelandic society. I'd like to take that discussion right now, today because it's about the financial agenda we're discussing. There are other matters that have not been discussed when the Ministry has established a meeting. Are the members of the Generals? How we carry out our work is of vital importance. Of course it should. President to change the program and call it the highest. Prime Minister in here to answer for the policy of his government. [[The president calls.]] We should not have to read about it in the media. We're here to discuss the political bitch right here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u38	A respectable president. Of course, you might conclude that there will be members of the council waiting for me to bless this alleged funeral that they proclaim to the educational system through this terrible private operation. No, I'm not gonna do that. It's just very interesting to me that here are members of a council who now claim to be often sexist Art University of Iceland, a private school that talks about private business and some children in private schools. [[Figuratively speaking, Figga.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u39	Madam President. I guess the House and the President and the people on this matter have sensed the pleas being made here from the hall. It is necessary to take up a discussion about the government's policies on education, in health matters, but not that we here use this team, the chairman of the board, to try to get serious discussions when there is no secretary, no Minister's policy we can reason with. But it is also sobering to think that when we face the word for something like the privatization of the New Year's Bible, on the other side of the High School of the Year's League, it's coming to the top. A health minister here in March, denying that he will ever allow these changes. [[The president calls.]] And then they happen. It was mentioned here whether the Senate was at stake. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it is a question that the same is true here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u40	Madam President. It can be respected by the secretary of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, she's coming up here trying to scratch the tray. The defense can be debated how sorry she is. But there would be reason for a better consideration of the history of the Independence Party in this regard. It's protected; the public system, the health system, the education system, is starving, it's tight. It is then used, the tribulations, the poverty, as justification for personal renewal. I know how well this goes from a long time ago to struggle with the hold. That's it. Of course, it is intolerable and inconceivable that humans cannot come straight to the door and say so, for example. for the election that their special competitiveness is to continue privatization in the welfare system in Iceland. The only unity that now seems timely is to unite the right groups. The only unit we should be able to find out about here, Madam President, is that the Independence Party, the Upkeep and a Bright Future would have passed a formal and permanently into one bed. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u41	A respectable president. I'm totally agreeing with it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said. I listened to his talks because he pointed out how he has been cut off to public business and then used a difficult situation as a reason for bringing money or even an entire school, well - fired school, in order to support a wide variety of business plans. It simply cannot work. We've heard from rural communities around the country, where they call for an increase in money into high school, the public high school, after years of hard cuts after a crash. The answer cannot be to transfer these Kingdom property to private hands, which cannot be the solution. We can agree that there is a wide variety of issues, but this is not the way. If the Theocratic Ministry School needs support, it must come in another way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u42	Madam President. The problem we face is not just this particular personal development plan for this particular time but that in all financial debates, we have had the presidents of the states to us who say, "We don't know the plan, we don't know what the government has in mind. People say that they lack information, lack data, lack transparency, lack the possibility of seeing the future and the future plans for the government. The problem we face is that the government repeatedly keeps information from the council, from its institutions, from the public in the country. I don't know how well people are going to get used to reading between the lines of the budget and other government cops in order to figure out what is about to happen in the next few years. I want all the information clear, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u43	Madam President. In the days when we were discussing the privatization of banks, the highest came. The minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, spoke of a good career. He said the process had to be open, it had to be transparent. He was asked by what? paritaprevir That's for the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir. He came up here, and the World of Congress was the fairest thing to say to the answers. - Open, please, above all doubt, overlook criticism. Is that not just a normal requirement? Secretary of finance felt that it was a natural requirement. He arose and said, "Yes, yes, yes, and let the people of the land know. It's a question of history. There are many people who want private schools. I like private schools. I don't want them thrown out of business. I don't want private health care because there's a drop. We do not want the personal enterprise to blow out. We want to increase in numbers when it comes to students, but those of us who want to have private business here, I don't talk about the personal development of the state, want him to be open, useful, above doubt, above criticism, and all done in consultation. [[The president calls.]] It's not done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u44	A respectable president. There is much discussion here on a news report that may stand to unite two schools. I make it clear that no schools have yet been united. I understand that we want to bring up the discussion. I am ready to participate in that discussion. I don't think there's any new news that the Independence Party is ready to participate in or work in its political affairs that the public tax is treated well and that it is best for students, the best way to go, both the taxpayers and the users of the public service. If there is something in this matter that we will discuss, there is no new news. We will stand by it all the way, and we need not be surprised if our makeup is practical and effective. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u45	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u46	Madam President. The government's financial program offers ambitious aims in its text on quality hospital services, special hospitals should be compared to comparable hospitals in the north, waiting for action and treatment, and so on. However, the review of Land Hospital shows that, in view of the ambitious goals and suggestions presented in the program, national hospitals need to cut costs of about 5 billion in the period if otherwise function is maintained. Yesterday's morning paper's interview is the highest. Secretary of finance reports that the National Hospital is taking an increase in the government and agrees with its desire for financial support and considers the increase to be cut off because of its lack of wishes. V.E.G. Ministers make false claims to the hospital. Sad to say, the situation is that the officials of the government are cutting off on important organizations such as the National Hospital in the media, not what I'm going to discuss here, but what the minister's rights are when he says that the claims of the hospital are wrong. I'm asking the highest. As the nation grows older, the number of patients increases because of both age and increasing number of tourists, demand, and the text of improved services, more expensive drugs, a shorter waiting period, but it does not follow the requirements set out. What do you call it, topv? Minister? Is it not reasonable to talk to them about surgery, even though the hospital may increase the amount of money? Because somewhere, it is likely that it is necessary to cut down to meet the demands set out. Looks the best. Ministers only have those requirements that we read about in the financial program as hospital requests? Or how to meet the precise requirements set out there, to meet the claims that health matters are priorities, to meet the demands of 86,000 Icelanders who signed the challenge to politicians, or to go to the highest level. Perhaps a minister may, as directed, have a healthy reduction in the number of elderly and sick people in the form of a so - called healthy reduction in students, a healthy reduction in the number of tourists, by cutting down and making sure that the funds do not depend on real needs? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I can truly agree with that with what. A senator said that there would be a healthy reduction in the number of sick. We both participated in a platform yesterday on the other side of Hope Street that discussed prevention and involvement in healthy living and that this could lead to a reduction in health - care costs. We in the government are doing so in various ways. For example, we are promoting psychology services in high school. Medical professionals are being added, etc. However, we are also adding to the cost of medicine these days. They're adding new medicines. Of course, health services are extensive. The system of health care is being changed in another way. However, the presidents of the Land Hospital have pointed to certain points, e.g. that at the hospital emergency room, various patients are being treated, much rather, at clinics. They're being directed into this direction. At the same time, members of the hospital have pointed out what I consider proper and demeaning, that in the hospital there are many elderly ones who actually live elsewhere. All the evidence is heard and won.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u48	Madam President. I'm beginning to suspect at the highest. The minister of finance is a surrealist in the disguise of a politician because that answer reminded me a little of Godot's play. It is asked a very clear question: What is it called when governments set up standards and requirements for the growth of tasks, but their budget does not depend on them? Is it so great? When the hospital calls attention to this, does a minister think that the hospital's claims are wrong, as noted in the media? Tells you the highest. Ministers normal to have increased demands for hospital service, but financial support does not comply with that requirement? That's what it's all about. And a healthy reduction in patients, yes, that's good, of course. At the top. Ministers agree absolutely that public health can be done much in order to help reduce the need for hospital service. Yet, we still have the facts that speak for themselves. [[The president calls.]] The nation's aged, the number of tourists, and the ever - increasing demand for technical hospital service. How is that to be expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for likening me to a surrealist, for that is just one of the arts that I am most interested in and is pleased to be the founder of it here at the General Assembly. Senator. It is only hoped that acidicism will come to mind when an increase is thought to be a reduction, in addition to cutting. The government budget is adding 22% to health issues during the period of the programme. No matter how many times men consider it to be cut, nothing will be different. Another 22%. It's a raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u50	President. The Ministry of Social and Equal Opportunities has a wide range of work to do with the Ministry. Often, it is difficult for players to understand what is being heard under different departments, especially the two Ministryes, which share houses and discuss the issues of groups that need the most that laws and rules often take into account complicated circumstances in modern society. According to the letter of Comfort to the highest. Department of Social Affairs is presented with the following information indicating a lack of consultation and perspective, with the permission of a president: On April 4, Men of Faith came and protested to the Ministry of Health after a massive cutoff to the League in 2017. There they requested a discussion with both ministers and promised to do so. Soon we had a conversation with a health minister, and we explained that the Ministry of Social Affairs would also be at that meeting. At the time of the meeting, he and his assistant were not seen. We had a good meeting with Feari Proppér, who was the main source of instruction from us in the CHEW, but no decision was made for the future of the Power of Mind. At the end of the meeting, it was promised that the conversation would continue. We have repeatedly pressed down the next steps, but we have received no response from the health minister. When a social minister was pressed, a very short answer was received without convincing evidence that our case was a matter of health care. We're amazed at how the Minister of Social Affairs can rule us out in funding at the same time as being strengthened by the rest of the Liberation, which says Grophina and Batatre of Southland, as well as other groups that do less extensive activities than the Power of Mind. We demand that the Ministry of Social Affairs reconsider their position. So I'd like to ask you what it's like to get to the top. Ministers will not be weddent of Humungus's wishes for a meeting. Is there a basis for improvement over the next few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. The short answer is that there have been medical funding in the Ministry of Health since the beginning, that one year, without direct funding from a legal committee in the past year, some of which was the earmark of the Department of State Department's Department's Department. However, it was a firm decision made by the legal committee to provide financial resources directly to the Power of Braves. Hence, it is wrong to say in the discussion that some kind of cuts were involved in the Department's Social Affairs. The Ministry of Faith has simply been classified by other medical services and, therefore, strengthened by health - care ministers. Of course, it is important in such a huge Ministry that there is a perspective and clear policy on where the cases are at home. It is certainly so within my office that there may be considerable overlaps between lawsuits and closely related activities when it comes to health care, when there are other options that may be premeditated. Therefore, it is very important for the Ministry to identify where things are at home so that it is clear and that clear answers are given to the relevant stakeholders. It is also clear how their activity is supported and who does so so so that each part of the Ministry can concentrate well on its activities. I'm sure there's a meeting with the Power of Mind. We have made this clear to them, that, so far, their service has been rated under the Department of Health. As a result, their main search for support is natural. But I certainly don't think it's after me having a meeting with the Power of Mind. We've talked about this repeatedly within the Ministry and between us and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u52	President. I thank the Minister for the clear answer because that's exactly what's missing, that's missing clarity. Many who can avail themselves of the ministry of Comfort also need to serve at the highest level. Minister or Ministry to keep. But I believe that it is very important, as presented in challenges to the highest degree. Minister and chief. A health minister, to make it clear whether it is possible to carry on the activities of the Matrix. I also think it is very important that there is good cooperation and consultation, so that groups such as the Bible, which have done extraordinary things in our society, are not kept very uncertain, and it is immediately clear how this is supposed to exist in the future. I wish for the highest. A minister met with the courage to show respect for the people they are entitled to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u53	Madam President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. The senator's involvement in such organizations as Conspiracy and so many of the other volunteer organizations that work in our community in various areas of well - being is all of a huge deal. It is performing an enormously good and unselfish work in so many areas that is extremely important to society, not just in the service of the respective groups, but also in the maintenance of governments and the development of our democratic society. So I support all such activities, but at the same time, I find it very important that the management board is very clear about where such an organization should seek both financial and professional support. Hence, it has been clear from the Ministry that this is being done under medical care, which is the first stop. [[Up front.]] But I repeat, it's probably on my part to meet them, even if that is true.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u54	A respectable president. In the first few days, the highest. The marine and agricultural minister's office changed the group to revise the local labour agreements, the consultation team, into their political confidence but also, interestingly, a representative of the major merchants, who, according to the Minister, had a vision of consumers. It's and it's. The minister also decided to post the Internet for the review of a revolution in the competitive environment of the milk industry as well as toll environment. In other words, a minister decided to withdraw from the review process certain factors, include the Commission, the group, a project, even though during the last term, the manager of the employment committee and the Committees and the Committee for All and the Council, then the chairman, the current secretary of Transport and the former fellow minister, had a preconceived basis for agreeing that all of these items were to be reviewed in the context of a revised domestic agreement by 2020, the SmPC. This is a significant change that a minister would say to include sets the example for Norway. I'm aware that this journey is in progress, was organized by a farm partner and that the minister's representatives were invited to that journey. They're not with me. So I ask the following questions: Is it really so that a minister refused to send a representative on this mission to find out the bottom and bottom of the matter? Is this the new business of a new government, increasing consultation, cooperation, and reconciliation? Is this less willing or is it all peace? Does it not seem that a minister's representatives have only the same background as other members of the committee? I think it's the best. Ministers take care of these serious matters, which involve entire industry and entire areas of the country, with a measure of ease, even as an elephant in a porcelain camp.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u55	I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Jóhannsson's Sigurður for the questions and objective approach of the important issues in the marine and agricultural sectors. I'm not going to hide that I and what. A senator does not share the same opinion about how to build up, including, a person. In agriculture and fishing, especially in agriculture. No one is surprised that there is a process of building that needs to be done after the contract was adopted here by 19 votes against 7 in the last terms under leadership. Yeah. Senator. Trust and confidentiality need to be restored. society with regard to agriculture. Farming has tremendous opportunities ahead of me, which I know will help. A senator knows well. That is why winning things right, associating consumers with farmers, is a matter of keeping the interests together. Of course, it should be considered how things take place in other countries, and this must be done on the basis of the Ministry, not on the basis of its stakeholders, whether they are the Baving organization, the European or other organisations' union, stated. This must be done on the basis of the administration rather than on the basis of stakeholders. It is true that I changed the group of accountants appointed during the last term because the width was not enough. I think this is exactly the approach I've been making, trying to link the interest of farmers, because they're going together, on a table belonging to the Review Committee. I know that even though men have been lured into agents even. from the team of professionals, they represent consumers inside and including... A person who leads the committee is not in the same category as me, and then she's doing a good job. I'm sorry if a member of a council hall with a lot of experience is going to plant suspicion in the important work that the Commission has to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u56	A respectable president. That's right, we don't share the same views. But we're not here discussing agriculture policy. I was talking about work, chief. Minister. I was talking about the procedure adopted by the council and set up, and why. A minister walks around and breaks it out day in and day in by changing people. Yes, you may be right. There is a new minister who has another view. However, taking out the specific procedure clearly violates the agreement that things should be taken into the overall context. If I understood a minister correctly, the minister would deny that the Minister's representatives make this journey because she was organized by a farm society. However, if I also understood the minister's rights, the minister would like to have it, and it would be normal, a challenge, and so prepare the job. Then the minister must send his representatives to Norway, where the model is and speak to the same people at other meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u57	Madam President. Yeah, you're absolutely right. We have a lot to learn from the Norwegians, but I also think that the Norwegian can look to us in many ways, both in agriculture and in construction, especially in the seaside. Speaking of business practices: Yes, it was perfectly clear on my part, and I've been at meetings with the peasanty over and over and over again and always told them clearly that I will follow through what is in the Treaty. I know that in the Constitution there are laws that include... The forward group does not necessarily fall well, i.e. taking out an exception to the conditions in the market agreements for competition. That's what I've been meaning to do. It's always been before. I put a bill on the Ministry's Web to give in. Our fine dairy producers and dairy opportunities to make comments. Has the matter entered the council? No, for we are considering the comments of those who have presented them, both negative and positive. It is clear from my mind that we will be very careful about the comments, but I plan to bring the matter here until a council in the fall, and then all members of the Parliament will have the opportunity to express themselves about whether or not to remain in a competitive environment of the milk industry. [[The president calls.]] I don't agree with that. [[The president calls.]] But we need to be careful. That's why we're taking the time to review the whole process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u58	Madam President. According to a recent Ministry of Social Services, there is an inequities in the community, both when Gini levels are watched and the proportion of people under low income limits. By 2015, 10% of people were under the low income limit, 7.9% earlier. Now there is the same ratio under low income limits as when the bank crash was the worst. Things are getting worse, as the last government warned so many times. Today, the government of restoration and the bright future are going to follow the same right course. The profit of the swing will go on to the most successful. In 2015 the richest 1% of the country's population increased their property by 50 billion and has about 20% of all the property in the country. No tax changes have been presented to counteract the growth of wrongs. The goal is to increase in inexorability. The union and other groups have foretold the most efficient and reasonable way of using the tax system. We've suggested step-by-step income taxes, high income taxes, fiscal taxes, incremental capital taxes, and more revenue from the resources. The secretary has previously denied these routes. On the contrary, the government has spread the tax system and has talked much about its simplicity. Hardly the simplicity for the life of the most lucrative groups that many face difficult housing conditions. In fact, in a new financial program, the minister says that taxes are the opposite of freedom in a new financial program. I believe, however, that a righteous tax returns a great deal of freedom to the common people, not to mention security. Now it is a question of whether a minister will look at an inequated increase directly in front of his nose. And since he doesn't want to take good advice from me on tax issues, I ask: "Who else is the greatest trumpeter in the world? A minister on top of his sleeves in order to stop this dismay, if he wants to do so on another occasion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I have to admit, the numbers he presents here I haven't seen. However, I know well that the Habitat statistics have shown that there is at least an inequities in the pay of this country in Europe. Surely, there is reason to consider what is normal inequity. Some claim that it should be perfect. I'm not one of them. That may be the problem. That's what a senator sees. I believe people should enjoy their initiative, e.g. to get more education. I think it's one of the lesions, like... in the pay system of this country, and has been complained about academically educated men, that education is not being taken to the limit. I can, for example. Name this: Nurses, teachers, unions with a very long education but who do not enjoy it in their own eyes. I think a lot of people can agree with that. I can't figure out what it is. A senator means when he says I flatd out the tax system. I don't know that I've had specific suggestions about changing the tax system, unless I've changed the value tax for travel services. If I remember correctly, the Conspiracy supported the changes. And I've come up with ideas about certain green taxes that I don't know if the senator is very opposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u60	Madam President. The numbers are on the welfare Department's web. V.E.G. Minister dropped an intermediate in the IRS. What is normal inequity? I talked about him growing. At least it is not acceptable when the number of people under the low income limit. We see that the facility market is becoming one kaos, a hook road. The real problem exists, both for people who cannot get to their own homes and for those who are rentable. All evidence shows that people in a tenet and their children are in great greater danger of poverty. In view of this, on February 24, the government announced that a group had been appointed to respond to this emergency situation in the Icelandic Housing House. The decision was to be made within a month. Then it's been two and a half months. What's up, big guy? The General Secretary of Financial Affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u61	Madam President. Hv. A senator will discuss the housing issues. It is a pleasure to talk about them. The government has put up to 1.5 billion, in addition to what was approved in the budget for building apartments by ASI. We have wanted to contribute to an increase in the build-up of property, and we have wanted to improve the situation by doing some work as high as possible. Minister of Social Affairs has been introduced. [[Up front.]] But I want to point them out. This law was changed by a senator before the present time. The government went into operation. It was on a budget bill approved here in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u62	A respectable president. The growing rise of nationalism and isolationism is a major concern for international politics at this time, whether in the United States or in Europe. The Dutch elections were very prominent in nationalism and racism, and the same emphasis is sadly high in the campaign for the French elections today on Sunday. We have seen this development elsewhere in Europe, to form in Poland, where the right - to - do ethnic group Law and Justice is the dominant figure. This group refused to welcome 7 thousand refugees, approved by the former government at the Warsaw convention. He has banned homosexual rights and gave us a bill last spring to impose the rights of Polish women to abortion, but the Polish abortion law was for one of the strictest in Europe. We see this nationalism and fierce policy against the immigrants of Finland, where the Finnish right ethnic group of Persausomeinset wants to impose legislation on the immigrants. We also see this nationalism in Europe's neighbors, such as the AK class, the Erdogans, president of Turkey, who proposed a bill in the fall in cooperation with the extreme right party of the MHP to weaken the authority of the Turkish Parliament and strengthen the position of the president. The Likud Party is so one of the groups that will go on to limit the struggle of Palestinian people to gain recognition for their own kingdom. In it, president of the Likud Party, Benjamin Netanyahu, has taken the lead. Why am I referring to these groups here? Yes, all these political groups share in common with the right groups in Europe called ACRE. This organization also has the Independence Party. That organization has the highest power. Foreign Minister of confidentiality, led by vice president of the ACRE. In view of the highest. Minister of State is not only the minister of the Independence Party but also of Iceland I would like to ask the minister if he feels that this responsibility in the organization is compatible with the responsible position he holds as a foreign minister. Is his defence compatible with Iceland's foreign policy, which accepts Palestine as an independent state and has had the right to equality? [[The president calls.]] Don't you think it won't stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u63	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator if she puts emphasis on combating extremes no matter what, which I believe, it makes everything equal. We fight for human rights wherever we can do that. The one standing here has and will continue to do so. As for my seat in this program, I will not remain there. But here's the point: If it is. A senator would have liked to have she could have talked to many other European groups that we are in cooperation with, groups of classes that are members of the Icelandic Parliament, but unfortunately, there is a long way from having a case - cut. A senator mentioned some matters, but there are many others I believe are good political alliances at the scene of the Alliedis - like me and the Icelanders in general, who want to see them in the countries we compare with. It is our responsibility everywhere to fight for the values we have. A senator mentioned. That's something I've done as a senator, before I came to the council, and as a minister. And I will continue to do it. But I think it would be very good if it were. In general, members of the Parliament would consider these matters only in the countries with which we have much contact. That is the first conclusion we will find when we consider that there is much work to be done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u64	A respectable president. There are, indeed, news that is being proclaimed by the Supreme One. Secretary of State, that he is not going to perform this position anymore, probably because he feels this is contrary to his position as the highest. Iceland's foreign minister. I'll give it to me. If so, I also wonder, and I would like to hear it from the highest level. Minister of State how this compares with the international appearance of Iceland when the national minister of foreign affairs is in company with men like the President of Erdogan, who we do not have to put up with the vision and what his position is in international politics for some time. How does this compare with the international appearance of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u65	A respectable president. I have criticized the government in Turkey, both at the scene of the organization. A senator referred to and in other matters. I got it. I got it. A senator to study things, and not to interpret all the organizations that involve not just the independent party, but to other categories, they are based on values that we agree on. And then, unfortunately, it's quite fragile. If you were to control everything, you would turn a lot of things into policy groups as bad. A senator referred to, but there were many more indeed. This is the situation in Europe, and the situation in Europe is better than that in most countries and continents on earth. These are the facts. It is totally absurd to make such a decision. I got it. I got it. A member of the Parliament to examine other groups at the European Parliament. Like other large groups, these groups are not generally put out in that way. A senator does. [[The president calls.]] However, there is a lot of work to do when that happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u66	A respectable president. I come up under the President's board to discuss a financial plan and review of it. I have heard that there are different ways of doing things within committees and that there are information given to members of the Committee on when and how to give comments. So I urge a respectable president to establish some harmony there. One committee cannot get the message that she should return on a Friday night while another committee receives a message that she does not have to return until Monday. The same is true in the form and manner. This is very uncomfortable, and it causes us to wake up. Congress officials are not just as confident in our work. So I urge a president in these matters that this will be fixed the first so that at least we can have consistent comments on the format as well as when to return it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u67	President. I'd like to join the Prime Minister of Pirata. It is very uncomfortable not to have clear procedures. We senators, at least members of the smaller section, are very concerned about the budget and the lack of information that we experience in recognition of a procedure at the General Assembly. It's not like we're here to go into some frame that's very difficult to change without recognising information in order to make informed decisions. So I would like the president to meet with the committee presidents, and there would be a very clear message about when to turn his own colors and how to do this work so that it'll be - well, it'll be all right, but the President can avoid unnecessary bumps by getting here on clear practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u68	A respectable president. I come here especially to encourage the highest. Budget and economic secretary to further consider how individuals who feel that a financial enterprise has been wronged can gain additional support in seeking their rights. It was repeatedly followed by the collapse of individuals in their financial situation. This even resulted in the loss of possessions and of many years of legal procedures in order to receive correction. I've had talks pointed to specific models, e.g. from the United States, about a special financial center that would monitor these largest decisions made by individuals when it comes to borrowing and may have profound consequences. [[The president calls.]] To date, this legal environment has been vague and urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u69	Madam President. This is a very good case that strengthens the position of those who are trying to present information on the proposed violations of the financial sector or such. Yet, most of it is different. The Economic and Business Commission proposals that simply violate the purpose of this bill because the bill is based on a European directive designed to protect the identity and safety of those who are trying to communicate information. So there are unfortunate, even incorrect, adjustments that make it necessary that information be published anonymously. Pirats and I will vote against the change of plans, but we'll celebrate this good bill in another way, and I'll encourage others to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u70	Madam President. In the left movement, a green supply supports this bill and the aim of the very important person, to ensure informers in financial institutions appropriate protection, and appropriate treatment in such matters. I signed the committee on a short notice, and I explained to him during the discussion. He is that we will be sitting with the vote on the changes made by the members of the committee, which aims to avoid being specifically encouraged by anonymous comments. However, as noted in 2 Corinthians, I want this to be very clear in these discussions. to the point that this is not to say that it is forbidden to send anonymous tips. That explanation is perfectly clear. It is not forbidden to send anonymous notes, but this change is made based on the Perconte Protection of the Issue, which suggested that it not be encouraged directly in the lyrics of the Law. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, we support the situation, but we ignore the votes for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u71	Madam President. This enormously extensive law book is based on a resolution adopted at the council. A fall in which men were very strongly divided into states to see if this proposal was contrary to Iceland's constitution on expeditation of authority. As with all the administrations at that time, the left movement went against the proposal, we voted against it. Therefore, we will sit next to the release of this case. We feel that the debate at that time was not sufficient, and it emphasized the need that in the Council of the Council, there is an adequate agreement on a limited exercise of authority in the Constitution and, in fact, a number of other regulations in the constitution. Thus, we will be embarrassed by the release of this case, although we agree with the main objectives it includes on increasing financial control. But this discussion is not over here in this hall. [[The president calls.]] It is urgent that the Allied Council of Iceland deal with the proposed authority as presented here in various areas in recent years and answer that question sufficiently.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u72	Madam President. Now it has been attributed to the question of whether this matter will pass on the Constitution. However, I view it as an improvement. The bill is about a great deal, improving financial regulations and monitoring. However, this matter again emphasizes the need for us to complete the Constitution adopted in a national law order to provide just such a administrative point, to see if it is above the head and legal to hand out authority to foreign institutions, legal. We need to get that straight. In the meantime, so many sources of authority have been handed over in the General Assembly that it is only possible that the current constitution can no longer be saved. She just won't be rescued. We will agree on this, but we strongly encourage reinstatement of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u73	A respectable president. I consider the current constitution to be excellent, although there is truly reason to add new features. It would be good to receive provisions that might lead to such payment. However, this is a search for solutions so that we can be involved in a very important new financial monitoring system. I think it's right to support this case, especially since we're still getting considerable comments on the financial surveillance we have in Iceland. I'd also like to mention that there is a serious concern that we are once again hearing advertising from financial loans about 90% and that we have not yet heard of the regulations that the Minister of finance should consider that should come to a frame of loans, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u74	Madam President. To me, it's very simple. We are sworn to the Constitution. If there is no doubt that the bill we agree to here will violate the Constitution, we will not agree with it. Of course, everyone is free to follow their convictions about it, and I hope that people don't vote that violate it. It would also be a violation of the Constitution. If there's any doubt that the Constitution is being violated in a chamber, I don't see how we can accept the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u75	Madam President. Here's a bill to legalize passengers and cargo transports by changing proposals. For both, there has been a very pleasant agreement. The Environment and Transport Committees and conferences show a good general desire to add, if any, a provisional principle that clearly stipulates the requirements of the General Assembly for making new laws on public transport is stated in the Committee. The bill and the commission are, therefore, best referred to. The environment and transport authorities are back for further discussion and development, continuing in the same good spirit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u76	V.E.G. President. I thank the members of the Committee for a very good and cohesive job on this bill. You're right. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson says, we're asking for the bill to come back into the Committee by the 3rd. but right now, this is what he refers to here only for discussion, and no decision has been made. We'd love to get the bill back in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u77	A respectable president. Me and the laymen support this case, they think it's a good step in the right direction. However, there are two figures, one on the other hand, for transporting smaller cars and possibly competing with regular cab cars, but confident that the committee has handled it well and given clear conditions, we are confident that a taxi driver and a taxi driver are not overstepped. The other thing is public transportation to and from the terminal at Keflavík, Leifs Station. As we travel abroad, we know well that we can use public transportation from all airports, we can also use buses, trains, and other things, but it's unlikely that the situation is upstairs, that public transportation is not to park Leif Erik's Air Station because a bus car company puts priority on the bus above the bus. It's amazing. I trust that since the committee is going to bring the matter in, she will also go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u78	A respectable president. I agree with what has been presented here, with gratitude to members of the Committee for the best results. I think we're ensuring good public transport for our rural society, securing a whole system for the entire year that's very important. I agree with that too. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson said, we need to look at the case related to cab drivers. I think it's important that we do it next time, and then I think we can be very happy with the conclusions we have received in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u79	A respectable president. It is not necessarily that the employer is always good in all committees. This is the nature of the matter, but in this matter there was a lot of agreement on the environment and transport committee, and I thank my colleagues for their work there. I view it as one of the possible steps here, i.e. If this is to be agreed here and now, there will be steps to improve the general public, especially in the more widely distributed areas of the country. I recommend, of course, that we vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u80	Madam President. The United States celebrates this bill. While we are not closely involved in an environment and transport committee, we must thank those sitting there for working hard at it. This is an extremely important case for the region and the whole country, important for the national part of the network that has made a deal with the road making for public transport. In fact, this is one step in completing the contract because these cases have been upset. I just thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u81	Madam President. Today, for the first time, I have a report by the secretary of state and international affairs that are in a different format than before. It provides an overview of Iceland's foreign status and major events in the past 12 months, but is primarily aimed at the objective of foreign affairs and the actions of the foreign agency to achieve them. The report covers the government budget and seeks to demonstrate goals, standards, and measures clearly. Foreign service is the most powerful tool we have to care for national and national interests in a more and more changing world. We need to sharpen and sharpen this tool regularly for it to serve its purpose. The budget for the 2017 foreign service is 13.6 billion, or 1.8% of the A-sections. This is not a great deal of money in view of the fact that all aspects of foreign affairs, defenses, foreign trades, international organisations, staff and operating centres, abroad, are being spent and more than one third of the budget goes to developing cohesion. So we are under obligation to protect this money wisely, to set priorities, to set goals, and to plan procedures. We need to look ahead to the road when making a decision for jobs abroad, maintain a stronger civil service, give Iceland's voters a great deal of support, and be flexible, and be forward - looking. Just as goals and priorities change, so does the organization of the work. In a small foreign service like ours, it is important to have the objective of foreign policy clear. For these, financial and human resources need to be used well, at home and abroad. Regular review of foreign activities, priorities, and goals has been conducted, last 17 years, in 1998. Since the past is a matter, I have started a new reexamination process under the leadership of an experienced ambassador who will examine our future interests. The team has consulted with the job life on how the Ministry and Transgressors from abroad can best serve in behalf of the nation's interests and employment of the markets abroad. The future needs to be watched and organized, with long - term vision and goals guided. I expected much of that work, but it is my goal to complete that work at the end of the summer and to have them in hand with a good and powerful tool for our foreign activity for the next few years. In view of this, the government's declaration of policy is a most important factor. It clearly states that the founding of Iceland's foreign policy is the cooperation of Western countries, European and Norwegian partnerships, of the United Nations and the Atlantic Union, of the Defense Convention and of Peace and Security. It also states that it should be carefully considered that cooperation in the north and that there will continue to be an emphasis on business freedom and international cooperation in the area of security and development. In this speech, I do not intend to pick up all the material contained in the report itself, but I intend to discuss four areas of emphasis; national and national security; new challenges in foreign trade; the importance of resource control and environment; and a new view of development cooperation. Security and defense are one of the government's priorities. In 1951, Iceland and the United States are still protected by the cornerstones of the country and its membership in the Atlantic Community. The Icelandic government has the responsibility to ensure credible and visible defenses and contributions for security and protection. Political development in our part of the past year confirms the importance of Iceland for the common defenses of Western nations. During the past year, important steps have been taken in the coordination of Iceland's security and defenses. The General has agreed to the Congress on National Security Policy in Iceland and the National Security Act, which will soon be agreed. The national security policy provides a comprehensive view of security and protection in the light of altered cosmology, new technologies and the challenges of the world's countries, as well as the emphasises of terrorism and the Internet threat, environmental security in the north and natural disasters. At the scene of the Atlantic Community, Iceland has focused on North Atlantic issues and marine security, as well as protection plans for that area. Markvist is working to secure Iceland's defenses and to strengthen cooperation within the Community. The United States and other allies have undergone air - control in Iceland, with a total of nine countries holding 26 shifts since 2007. We will continue to contribute to the common defense of the Community. Civil experts have grown in their jobs and are added to hosting support at the safety site at Keflavour Airport. The implementation of protective workers in the safety area and the operation of the radar system, which covers a large region of the North Atlantic, is a major factor in Iceland's contribution to the joint defense of the Community. Today, participation in two major Community training exercises is being done in the summer of 2017, and in the fall of 2018, in the fall of the year. In addition to this, Iceland is engaged annually in the Northern Challenge Training Programme, her goal is to practice bombings and reactions to terrorism. We will be actively involved in protecting the baseline values of Western society, democracy, human rights, justice, and free economy. To this end, participation in the stability-effective work of Europe, particularly in the work of the European Safety and Cooperation Agency, ESE, the European Council of Strasbourg, and within a number of regional groups, such as the Baltic Council, but for a year through prehumanity. The damage is also the National Defense Council and the recent joint declaration of safety and protection in Iceland and Norway. There was a great convergence at the international Ministerial Conference at the end of March. Clearly, the alliance is and becomes a cornerstone in cooperation with democratic states on both sides of the Atlantic. The U.S. policy is clear. During the meeting, we discussed the development of joint defenses and people's resistance to the new security challenges and special emphasis on promoting traditional defenses and the presence of the Community in eastern Europe. At the same time, there was a meeting to find ways to reduce tension, increase transparency, and trust in communication with Russia. One of the most important projects in Iceland is a discussion of the future business plans in Britain. At present, the effects of Bgreit and Iceland's interests are being analyzed in this regard. In the last few weeks, I've had meetings with the EFTA, Germany, as well as with the members of the European Commission who represent them. In the last few weeks, I have had a meeting with the secretary of foreign affairs of Britain and other British politicians. During the meeting with the British Secretary of State, we agreed that the trade of the countries will be built on a basis which will provide as good or as better market access as currently on the basis of the European Economic Convention. We are also going to expand our regular appointments to discuss common interests, such as fishing, energy, and environment. The importance of Britain's foreign trade needs to be noted. The 2016 export was 11.3%, which puts Britain in second place after the European Union, i.e. without Britain, with 61% export. However, it will be remembered that in exports to the EU, exports to the Netherlands are 25%, but it is clear that some of them are going to non-EU countries. The association between Iceland and Britain is based on old society, so we need to deal well with the conversations that lie ahead. British governments have declared that they intend to represent free shops. This goal is in line with Icelandic interests and is expected to provide additional market access for Icelandic exports, especially for marine products. Our interests in these areas are very broad, and there is a need for landing rights in the United Kingdom and the rights of Icelandic citizens to live, study, and work in that country. Already the business policy debate in this country is largely out of the demand for involvement in the European Union, there is a full need to strengthen our work in EFTA and EEA. The EEA Treaty has obvious benefits for countries such as Iceland with great interest in the European Union but has not wanted to be a member of the European Union. The EEA contract has worked well, but we need to make better use of it. A new EEA database needs to be able to provide full perspective on EEA processes ranging from the modeling phase to the uptake of the EEA contract and production of Icelandic legislation. The European Union's views need to be developed in discussions about EU policy, to use opportunities that Iceland has to actively participate in the shape of EU legislation, and to present our views with the European Union's institutions and Member States and to support it. The Icelandic economy is open, and economic growth is driven by export. We've got everything we can do for a vacation store and access to markets near and far. Cooperation in EFTA is a fundamental factor in Iceland's business and vacation policy. The EFTA countries are constantly working to promote the organization's vacation network. Icelandic interests need to be best assured in individual interviews, in neighboring countries or in faraway countries in Asia and South America. EFTA's free market now reaches 870 billion. consumers. The export of EFTA to the treaties has increased from 6.5 billion euro in 2006 to 37 billion euro in 2015. The percentage of exports to these countries has also increased from 3% to 12.4%, while the EU share has declined from 71% to 62%. In addition, the share of euro in export is 26.8%, with 57.5% of the U.S. dollars. In recent years the EFTA countries have added to their vacation network and are now free trade agreements with 38 states. In the field of EFTA, for example, there are overcrowding important countries such as India, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Malaysia and negotiations beginning at the Mercosur Community in South America. The Icelandic government also loyally supports efforts among the Member States of the International Business Agency to ensure further opening of markets and detoxification of trade barriers between countries and the Agency. A steady increase in the number of international flight drivers has called for two - side travel contracts. The flight industry is one of the most important jobs in the country after pooled sales, retails, fishing, and production. The overall balance is similar to that of metal production, reaching 250 billion dollars. in 2015. Recently, an agreement with Israel has been completed and is intended to begin a direct flight between the countries for a year. There's still a conversation between Iceland and Russia ahead of us on air travel, but we're interested in negotiating over-the-state clearances over the Russian Union. Such over-flying sources could lead to a turning point for Icelandic pilots who intend to fly to China, India, and Japan. In the leading of my meeting with Russian executives at Archangelsk at the end of March, negotiations on the subject of flying were given special emphasis. Thus, all challenges need to be made in which opportunities will take place over the next few years, such as in newly developed countries of Asia and South America, all over Africa. Iceland has to adapt to a ever - changing cosmology of the materials and to look for markets that place its potential for exporting goods. The foreign trade policy must take into account changing markets, especially the world's large growth in parts of Asia, South America, and especially Africa. In China, the number of people in the United States is increasing, and it is predicted that the commercial power of the interfaith class will increase four times over the next 30 years and that it will have exceeded China. The combined consumption of the interclasses in these two largest countries of the world will be higher than comparable consumptions in the United States, Europe, other countries of Asia, Africa, and South America. Foreign services need to keep this trend in mind, adapting their work and work to new realities. There is plenty of desire to promote the State Department business services and to cooperate with the Iceland Office and other national organisations to care for. Business services are important for the Icelandic company at international markets and international markets of culture, agriculture and commerce. All Iceland's emissary agencies perform business services, tourism, culture on some level. This needs to expand and expand. The warmth of the earth is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. Thus, the response to climate change is one of the main factors in Iceland's international language, with a special emphasis on the impact of climate change on the marine and on biodiversity in the north. It tells its own story about the importance of resource use on the impact of climate change in foreign service that the matter is discussed in nearly all the government offices and arranged in some way by most emissaries. Iceland was among the first states to validate the Paris Convention, but the implementation of the Convention must be considered as an important stage for mankind and the future climate policy. There are future negotiations with the European Union and Norway on the contribution of Iceland to 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. The Paris Convention's aim to stem the global temperature rise will be met preferably by greatly increasing the share of renewable energy in human energy efficiency. So geodynamic support is important in Iceland's cooperation with international institutions, such as the World Health Organization on Renewable Energy, IRENA, the efforts of the UN on sustainable energy for all and the World Bank. The objective is to work with other nations who are interested in speeding up renewable energy and paying for increased funding in that field. Iceland took the initiative at the establishment of the European Community of IRENA, a number of Member States now 41, plus 27 member countries. The cooperation of Iceland on renewable energy also involves two-way cooperation with individual countries, including several countries in East Africa. The European Union's direct interest in combating the bad impacts of climate change is primarily in its influence on the oceans and on life, whether on surrounding seas or globally. In the ocean, national interest in life and international interest care and compromise are in the context of one of the main issues of foreign policy. This should also be kept in mind when making donations for climate funds and projects on various institutions. In view of this great interest, Iceland for years has been responsible for international cooperation in marine affairs and fishing, such as the United Nations, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization for the United Nations, FAO, and the Regional Fishing Government. The so - called blue economy and ocean affairs in a broad context are constantly being discussed in the foreign service, such as defenses against pollution and acidification, protection and the use of biological diversity in the ocean, the global impacts of changes in the Arctic and the importance of resource use in the ocean for food security and chemical advances in developing countries. Good hopes are put on the fact that soon a contract will be made to prevent the uncontrollable fishing in the North Sea. In June 2017, a New York United Nations conference has reached the 14th world target. Iceland emphasizes the importance of balance between sustainable innovation and marine resources protection on the basis of scientific approach. Then Iceland has always protected the United Nations Sea Convention and the rights it guarantees. Northern issues have become more international and are particularly related to climate change, the discussion of sustainable use and protection of natural resources, land bases and sovereigns requirements, social change and the opening of new shipping routes. Clearly, few countries have as much interest in economic development as Iceland does. The Arctic Council has established itself as the most important international cooperation site on northern issues. At a conference on northern issues in Arkangelsk at the end of March, I stressed that what happens in the north has a far beyond the region, and in the same way, the development from the north has a powerful impact on the affairs of the region. North paths are closely linked to other areas. Thus, we are subject to extensive cooperation, no matter what differences we may have in others. North lands are no longer at the end of the world but play a key role in the future of all of us. Iceland's leadership in the Arctic Council of 2019◯2021 gives us a fine opportunity to strengthen Iceland's international position, to be more active in international cooperation, which contributes to environmental, sustainable, and stability, and thus work toward the lasting interests of Iceland. Developmental cooperation is an unbreakable part of Iceland's foreign policy and its laws. This was emphasized when the Office of Development was introduced into the Ministry of State. Today, a united group operates on the international development team of Iceland. A consulting role in policy makers has a developing teamwork committee, with members of the General Assembly as well as representatives of the college community, professional life, and civil society in the field of humanitarian and evolutionary development. During 2016, contributions were made to global development of 6.9 billion dollars, or 0.28% of gross national income. The contribution to refugees and refugees was the largest factor, or 27.7% according to the latest number. The UN's global aim is to guide development, and the chief aim of the Icelandic government is to reduce poverty and hunger and promote general well - being on the basis of sex rights, human rights, to improve food security and to stimulate economic development on the basis of consistent and sustainable resource efficiency, to increase the development of resistant communities, and to speed restoration with increased coordination of humanitarian support and development cooperation. In this context, the 14th world target of the sea is very important, considering the importance of the marine resource use for food security and economic progress in developing countries. In developing cooperation, I stress two things. One is that we work at a place where we have more and more to offer than others. There, Iceland's expertise comes best in helping and cooperating with developing countries. This is especially true of expertise in fishing and fishing, in contrast with the use of geologic products. Already there is good experience in the areas in which we work in developing countries that promote further activity. We will work on this either twofold in cooperation with the member countries and in cooperation with the national institutions such as FAO and the World Bank. However, there is a great need to examine all the possibilities of cooperation with the job life of developing projects where possible. Clearly, public funds are not enough to achieve world goals. It'll take more money. Developing cooperation is in the end of an investment to the future, whether it is for a state that accepts such assistance or for the Kingdom that provides it. Most of the world's major contributions and international institutions in development have now been developed in their own dues active units working together with the job and private companies. The development of such units is to be thought of in the development of the State Department's Office of Development, which has good cooperation with the Ministry and Iceland Business Services, and enjoys the knowledge of these members and their contacts with the job. Iceland has invested quite a bit of money on last year's humanitarian work. The need for humanitarian assistance has never been greater than today, for there have never been so many people, some 65 million, in the world, on the run, most of them because of long - term conflicts, violence, and persecution. The growing number of refugees in recent years has included played a role in increasing its flow to Europe and across the Mediterranean Sea. The only way to stop this tide of refugees, most of which are from unstable areas in the Middle East, Africa, and Central Asia, is to bring an end to the driving force that drives people, whether it is war, famine, or general poverty. The world goals are based on the assumption that peace and sustainable development are improbable. A new program for Iceland's international development is being developed in 2017/2021. Will be submitted to the Council as well as to a plan of action for the period 2017/2018. New policy is based on world goals. The results of the peer review committee of the National Economic and Development Organization are also ahead and will consider how the suggestions can be applied to strengthen the function. Progress evaluations and assessments place an important place in practical development cooperation, resulting in knowledge of the results of projects and the lessons that can be learned from the progress and successes. The implementation of the global system of assessment and monitoring of the development network has been progressive. A team on the future outlook and goals of the Icelandic Peace Guard is then expected to obtain a report. Last year, 15 years had passed since the establishment of peacekeeping. Great changes and developments have taken place from the international environment, and it is important that the work of the Peacekeeper take into account and continue to serve the progress of foreign policy. A respectable president. The development of international politics around the world gives the Icelandic government reason to sharpen its policy in foreign affairs and interests and to encourage that the Western countries are firmly united in their fundamental values; democracy, justice, human rights, and free economy. Effective participation in international cooperation is needed to cope with many Western problems. Terrorism attacks in various European cities have been called for the promotion of law enforcement and a broad international agreement on security. These attacks lead to baseline Western society and the safety of all citizens. The attitude of the international community is also important in the response to threats in remote areas such as the Korean Peninsula, where there is increasing uncertainty about security. Respect for human rights is one of the basics of foreign policy and is an international government advocate of human rights. Special attention will be given to equality between the sexes, and considerable work and money have been spent on equality in recent years. Each device has been used to promote the equality of the sexes, rights of queer people, and rights of children. The above has mainly been put to death on four aspects of the foreign policy, but my detailed discussion of a number of topics that the foreign service is doing in the main of my report. Again, it emphasizes the goals, standards, and results of the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u82	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his history and excellent report. I wanted to ask the minister just in word, which he used in his speech and is also on page. 6 of the report, with permission of the President: Since the business policy debate is largely out of the European Union requirement, there is a full need to strengthen our work in EFTA and EEA. I completely agree with the Minister on the latter part of the sentence, but I think the first part is quite strange and refers to the Constitution of the Treaty, which clearly states that if there is a proposal for national law in the latter part of the term it will be brought to its conclusion. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to review it with us only what he means with these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad that I and what. A senator agrees on the value of EFTA and EES. That knows all my opinion of Iceland's involvement in the European Union. I have felt that this discussion was too much, and I have come across other important issues of foreign policy, including the U.S. Foreign business policy. I've sometimes felt forgotten about how important the vacation place is to Iceland. We Icelanders would still be a poor nation if we didn't have access to other markets. We will be poor if we do not secure our access to other markets. What I have stressed in my presentation is that we are in ideal circumstances because we have something to say to ourselves. Then we can be more specific in the EU if you want to. Hv. A senator reviewed what the government covenant says, but this is what I am referring to by the words he quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u84	Madam President. I'd like to make it clear that there is a clear demand among many politicians and the public to explain the question about Iceland's involvement in the European Union. This has been known and has been going on for a long time. You ask yourself, " Is all these people involved? ' It makes me feel very simple to talk about business matters only in this regard. Member of the European Union is a macropolitic language. It's a very important interest, and to plan to subtract it into a conflict about Iceland's business policy, I feel completely rejected by the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u85	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator is in a position to speak for the common people. He needs to appreciate it for himself. We certainly know the viewpoint of certain politicians, and it is fine for them to maintain their viewpoints. The same is true of the politician mentioned here. I'm ready to discuss what it means for Iceland to walk in the European Union anywhere and at any time. That's not the problem. However, here is a question for why I am here, but I think that discussion was too much, and it was at the expense of other very important foreign affairs. I'm specifically talking about business, but if you want to talk about EU issues, there's a lot more to do there too. However, the extent to which foreign affairs are being discussed is very important. And as important as it is to cooperation on the European scene, and we have many cooperations with the European countries and will continue to do so, and fine political agreements have to be viewed in a larger context.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u86	Madam President. Although I would like to continue this talk here as easily as possible. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson and the highest. Minister of Guðlaugur H. Þórðarson's son, I'm going to look at my second sight for now. It's Bgreit. I'm asking the highest. A minister who is a zealous spokesman for a vacation store, knows two contracts, two questions in the past: has the highest level. A minister of some specific agreement with the British that Iceland will be the first in line when it comes to dealing with other countries? As we know, there will be people there soon to be busy for months and years. On the one hand, I'd like to know, because the report suggests that there is an even better market access to Icelandic exports in Britain, especially for marine products: Do Ministers believe that market access to marine products can be negotiated without mutual agreement? This is a two - side deal where both interests must be on the table. Is it possible that this is a talk about that from the British, there needs to be a demand for mutuality, e.g. market access to British agricultural products in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for excellent inquiries, which address the core of the issue that has to do with our future relationship with the British. What I stressed about my meetings with British officials was that we would be the first in line when this came and all the messages I received from the council were in the way that it would work. When it comes to markets for seafood, I think when people are generally talking about the vacation business, it won't interfere with us, if we think it's on a different level so that we'd have to defend some market, if there was a free access with a seabed back and forth. We've been very liberal when it comes to it. We already have a contract with the European Union on the agricultural trade. It has not been valid because the European Union has not validated it. So we have taken the steps in this regard. Britain may be the most important market in Europe, so it will be used together. [[The president calls.]] There are no negotiations started. But we have already taken these steps against the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u88	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I am fully aware that all those who get access to Icelandic seafood are envious, but somehow I have the feeling that the British will focus more on other things than water exporting to Iceland in two-sided contracts. The question is, is the highest. Minister aware of the position of other EFTA countries to the possible EU Member States on EFTA? According to the EFTA Convention, unity is required on the part of new states, so I would be interested in knowing this, especially Norwegian position. Then I wondered about the work to achieve two-sided agreements with the British, not just a vacation store, but, to some extent, the free movement and the stability rights of companies, etc., as determined by the State Department of State. Has there been an analysis of how it would affect other vacation agreements currently valid in view of the rules to ensure the best conditions always, etc.? [[The president calls.]] Is this work under way considering how this would have affected not only on this agreement or on the relations of the two states but on which we already have a two - sided agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u89	In my second speech, I can do much better. Before I became a minister, I came up with the idea that the British would be members of EFTA. It contains obvious advantages for the EFTA and for the British alike. Then I'm talking about EFTA, not EES. This is not in that location, to or from. I'd say, unless the EFTA countries had something to turn away from their emphasis, that it would be difficult if the British were interested in coming in to find a legal argument against it. But this is not where we are discussing these things in that way. Now we haven't begun to negotiate, so that's all they're saying. Hv. However, a senator was considering this in general about food, referring to the mutual rights of the city. It is difficult to see that there might be something that would prevent it. When we're working on Baltrexit, we're doing it in a larger context because we need to evaluate our interests. I can come to that better later, so I couldn't get into my speech earlier. [[The president calls.]] But I feel that we need them to do homework as well as we should. [[The president calls.]] Actually, it's all connected. I'll go over it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u90	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister in his history entered a significant safety and protection issue. I would like that, because the minister did not directly enter the text of the report, asking the text on page 52. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The waters of the Mediterranean Sea, especially in Syria, continue to cause serious anxiety. The South Security Score is established by improved monitoring, cooperation with the European Union and improvement in security and protection. There is also talk of increased emphasis on cooperation between the Community, including the Community. About the Florida. This is in the chapter on the Atlantic Alliance. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to this, is it a vision of the highest? Minister that keeping refugees out, refugees from war - torn lands is a security crisis? Because there's something I'm reading out of this text and then like, because it speaks of Florida, whether or not we're going under Saudi Arabia's policy that runs a war in the Yemen, where millions are starving. [[The president calls.]] I think this line needs a little more explanation in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think the main thing, away from sentences to or out, is that we need to discuss these matters. To me, it's very simple. We will never achieve peace and stability in this area unless we cooperate with the nations and peoples who are there. I don't think I'm informing any secret about the fact that I'm not accepting government in a certain state. There's nothing we can do about it. It's just a walk of life. We will not become doers, nor will we be in charge of it. We can add to the scales that we have indeed done and will continue to do, but the world is as it is. He's not what we want him to be. This area is rather geographically far away from us, but when it comes to more security, it is short of us. What happens there can directly affect the safety of Icelanders as well as other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u92	Madam President. Of course, what Iceland takes and how Iceland talks internationally and what Iceland's focus is to form in terms of the war that Saudi Arabs are fighting in the Yemen. Of course, it's important to cooperate, because we're members of the Atlantic Community, how we speak there. Of course, all wars bring security challenges everywhere. But I can't better see here than that, in fact, they're talking about refugees as security challenges. I would very much like to hear that from the highest level. Minister if he considers refugees a security challenge for us, or if we need to work against war, thus ensuring our safety. Then I link it again to the fact that it is important whether we are going to agree with or speak for unions with countries that run wars in distant parts of the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u93	A respectable president. There's been a general rule in my opinion. A senator who spoke before is perfunctory and who brings in good, although I don't always agree. But I think it's quite a bit of a bouncer. Hv. A senator knows, I went over it in my speech, and it's clear to everyone that it's, of course, a terrible situation when 65 million people are on the run. There is, of course, one of them. Everybody knows that. What we are trying to prevent and to prevent is that this situation will arise. How do we do that? It is by bringing peace. Well, it's number one, anyway. What are people fleeing from? It is fleeing from war, famine, and often bad governments. That's what we're working on. We can disagree about things, natural things, but let's not go through with this. Let us not conclude that some people are not interested in bringing world peace and that they do not want to help refugees in a miserable situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u94	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for an extensive and well-registered report. I'm going to use my questions to bring me closer, to our cousin in the Faeroe Islands. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to Hoyvík deal. I can see that in the report on page 18. 38 that at a meeting of the Secretary of State of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland last summer, it was decided to set up a working group of officials to work on the cooperation agreement between the three countries and to explore the potential of a free trade agreement, in line with the conclusion of the Western American Council from 2015. Word has it that the Faeroes are not completely satisfied with the Hoyevík deal. It'd be good if it was the highest. A minister could tell us just why that happens. Does Ministers think there is any possibility that Greenland would want to enter this contract? In what ways can we more fully trust our dealings with our good neighbors?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator comes up with a very important issue. We must not forget to develop and draw closer to these nations that are next to us, both geographically and on various other grounds. In short, we are doing all we can to further strengthen it. I don't know if I'm really able to go over it in this short answer what the Entreys have made to comment on, or about Greenland's state. The important thing is that our will is clear. We'd like to keep the lines tighter, improve communication further. Business is one thing, but further communication in the cultural field and in the field of employment needs to be developed. Travel is a clear example. The more communication between us and those of our friends, the better we are and the better that it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u96	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer and particularly good words on cooperation with our good neighbors. As president of the Western Council, of course I rejoice. I agree with a minister, I think it is very important that we develop even more solid trust and good relations with our neighbors in as many areas as possible. Of course, shops and vacations must be a large part of it, but also regarding the environment, culture, education, tourism, and various factors, as agreed. Then I'd like to be curious about it at the highest level. Minister if he has any further information about the Western Council's application to an audience at the Arctic Council. I really hope we can get it through, for I think it's important that we Icelanders also bring our friends to the Faeroe Islands and Greenland a little help with having a stronger voice in the important thing, since they're really only part of today's team through Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u97	A respectable president. For asking why. A senator is too early to tell. They need solidarity in the board to get an audiencer. It is a huge offense at what is, of course, enjoyable. It is not just countries that are near the Arctic - as mentioned in my background talk that have a global impact on the Arctic. Many countries, both large and small, have applied to become spectators. Our will toward these lands is clear. I am very happy to hear the emphasis. The importance and importance of cooperation in these matters is emphasized by one of us, and members of the Parliament are of enormous importance. The Western rule is extremely important. True, I don't think it's just when it comes to friends in the Faeroe Islands and in Greenland. In general, I think it is most desirable for the Icelandic Parliaments to be involved in political relations as well as political parties in cooperation with other groups in order to increase understanding and relationships that are necessary for us if we are going to be successful at a global level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u98	Madam President. I'm glad we finally speak of the government's foreign policy at the council, I'd like to say it. Ministers, with their first report in international and foreign affairs, thank the State Department's staff for their work. So, for the first time, a minister in the introduction of the report declares that the legal report is not standard but, rather, a summary of the state of foreign affairs and key events at that point in the last 12 months. In the U.S. Marshal's report. Sadly, a minister is often an overview of the past rather than a glimpse of the future. It would be interesting for us here to see in the overview which foreign rulers are the highest. A minister has found that he accepted office, what was discussed, and what was most beneficial from those meetings, in view of the highest value. Minister. But consider the important points found in the report, for it is the political debate of turning into a Senate hall today. The opening words of this report show that the government's budget is being taken care of for the next five years when it comes to displaying goals, standards, and measures clearly. The problem is that the government budget for the next five years is very vague, vaguely targeted, and that standards of the state's media, such as foreign affairs, are unexploited and unfounded. You see, a respectable president, it is not stated in one line that can be found in a financial program to the next five years how to use the 2 billion that will be added to foreign affairs over the next five years, in what exactly they are supposed to be. The financial program does not insist on this. There must be a lot of concern, especially when a foreign minister writes at the outset that financial plans are the basis for Iceland's foreign policy. But there are other important issues in a report. The minister of state and my evaluation is that he needs to explain it not only to us in the Hall of Congress but also to the public and to our partners in the developing nations and the commitments we have applied to development cooperation, such as forming within the OECD Development Committee, the DAC Committee. The need for international humanitarian and evolutionary support has rarely been greater in the world. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are now over 65 million refugees on the run from war, persecutions, disasters, and poverty. The Refugee Agency has issued a distress call to the world to increase resources for humanitarian purposes and development cooperation. In spite of this, and despite Iceland's best economic situation from the 2008 economic collapse, financial programs for the next five years show that Iceland's contributions to development are not shaken but merged. Iceland's low share, 0.25% of the population's income, is nothing more than a scandal in times when economic conditions are as good as they can be. This rate for development is much lower than the Left Green Government, and the Conspiracy planned to reach in 2016 with a far more difficult economic situation than this government now has. The increased contribution of countries to developing cooperation can minimize the serious consequences of armed conflict and natural disasters. In addition to promoting the extinction of poverty and malnutrition on the basis of equality and sustainableity, participation in developing cooperation with the United Nations is being invested in the construction of the poorest educational countries in the world, as well as in promoting the elimination of poverty and malnutrition. Iceland has long supported the UN's aim that industrialized countries would spend at least 0.7% of the population's income in developing cooperation, but less has been done. Iceland is to be able to set more ambitious goals when it comes to helping poor, unstable countries with increased development cooperation and thereby fulfill their international commitments, as has been done for many years in other countries, but it requires a political will, unfortunately, that is not to be found in the highest order. Secretary of state or supreme. Prime Minister. There is also a new tone and new policy published, both in financial planning and in this report, that Iceland's government intends to provide some of them with contributions for development cooperation in aid to refugees and refugees within the country. The fact that they are part of the official international development programme for Iceland does not depend on general definitions of development cooperation and is by no means consistent with Iceland's aim for developing cohesion. This is a major change in policy and results in the wonder that the interests of refugees and refugees fall within the realms of the Ministry of Health and Internal Affairs and that can certainly be added to the financial resources. The contribution of the Ministry of State to international work on the behalf of refugees is not to be carried out within the country. They're supposed to run to international institutions. According to the calculations of the Red Cross, 121⁄215% of the total development initiative for projects here is achieved. It's a remarkable, respectable president, and inappropriate. There may also be misunderstandings on top of the emphasis. Foreign Minister, that development cooperation is based on and should be eliminated through trade and trade. I strongly criticize the focus of considering the responsibility of the Icelandic government in developing cooperation to the private and private enterprise, as you can see in the report. There is also a new direction that needs more explanation. In terms of developing cooperation, I finally reiterate that there is a continuing reduction in the budget from the approval of the Allied Council of this Hall in the spring months of 2013 to increase these contributions. All talk of crown numbers is not appropriate when the standards that all the world's countries support, and so do we, revolve around the percentage of the nation's income. If we want to come up with the ultimate argument. The minister of state and prime minister that our contribution has increased in the last few years, let us take up this discussion and take in the success of the Icelandic crown that has taken place in recent years, which has eaten up the crown numbers as the highest level. The members of the Independence Party are so thoughtful. I'm the highest. Foreign Minister to study his mind on developing cooperation, already already Iceland's global development team has been under way, for the emphasis on development is also on the matter of peace. By giving more to development, we contribute to the peace and instability of the world's poorest areas. Also, it is not enough to be a powerful part of the HeForShe campaign but to reduce the donations made to the poor women and girls. It simply doesn't go together. We need to continue this effective work of Iceland during development and humanitarian work that has changed people's lives and potentials for life but that are not just numbers. Because I am dealing with the issues of refugees and refugees, I have to admit that I do not fully understand the concept of the refugee problem of international cooperation on page 20. 8 in the report at the highest level. Secretary of State says, with the permission of the President: ▪... the need to take appropriate precautions on the border and respond to the arrival of refugees and refugees. What's at the top? A minister, exactly what we're going to do with this? It would be interesting to know. For the security and protection it is described that the Icelandic government will continue to contribute to the common defense of the Atlantic Community, but no implementation or complete explanation of it is given in the report or in the government financial programme. Although Iceland's contributions to NATO have been increased in the history of the forward-class and independent platoon, and it is announced that this will continue, the exact amount of money in Iceland's budget will not be fully understood in security and defense. Nowhere, and that is simply not acceptable. How much money should be exactly used to maintain radar systems in the defensive area? How much money should be exactly spent on the major NTO defence exercises planned in this country and next year? Why should these projects be handled? Or, in order to meet this obvious budget team, such as from developing cooperation projects? It describes security and defense as one of the government's priorities and the cornerstone of its policy in foreign affairs. They need to know exactly what is meant by their claims. On e.g. ... tosecuretheSecretSecretSecretService? Is that not the priority of a foreign minister? In addition, the joint declaration of safety and protection that was signed by the highest power has to be better explained by Iceland and Norway. Norway and Iceland's foreign authorities, but they failed to explain in advance to the Council's General and Foreign Affairs Committee what it means, despite the fact that in the joint newspaper of Norway and Iceland, which appeared in the morning of March 23, the March 23 issue of this magazine, new emphasis has been proclaimed on cooperation in Iceland and the security community. The newspaper also said that here in Iceland we are studying policies and budgets for security and defense. A respectable president. That's totally inappropriate. The minister of state has not presented these revised priorities in policy development and financial contributions for the security and protection of the International Parliament before presenting them to readers of the Morning newspaper. Where's the top priority? Minister of Foreign Affairs is a matter of peace and disarmament? Unfortunately, they do not have much emphasis in the report. It is a real sin, and it has nothing to do with right or left political bitch. Rather, it is a peaceful attitude toward international matters that most of us must agree on. I hereby advertise that policy of the Minister and the government of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Future. So I think that NATO's way of peace is not the same as a matter of peace and emphasis on it. To another major international issue involving Iceland's interests so much as where and where I am and hopefully more people thirst for further vision and government policy and information. It is Bfenit, a British exit from the European Union. We need to hear more about what Iceland has done in the ten months since the British chose to replace the European Union. What emphasis has Icelandic officials placed on meeting places held with British officials? And how's the highest? A minister for the sake of continuation of those talks? The report emphasizes that Iceland's main objective is to take care of the access of Icelandic enterprises to British markets and expectations for an even better access to British markets by Bgret. I find this to be quite optimistic, and I find it hard to answer the question of optimism. Everything about Bbifit is widely spoken and adhered to. We also have to focus on things other than fish in our conversations with the British, such as any future partnerships should be on education and cultural exchanges, tourism and transport, shopping, import and exports of food and customs. In my opinion, Iceland's foreign policy, both related to Bfenit and independent Bbifit, will be presented to me what the government's vision of the government's future is of our interest management and communication with the European Union. The report lists and carefully reviews the EEA Treaty and our best interest care there, but much less is our policy in cooperation and communication with this most important business area of Iceland. Will we make it a point to follow Dana's footsteps and strengthen other markets if the roads to Britain become tight? A policy has been established and decided at the highest level. Minister? It would be interesting to know if this work has actually taken place. But to end my positive notes, I want to encourage the highest. Ministers to continue to promote the environment in Iceland's foreign policy, especially now in the preparatory work that takes place for the prehumanity of Iceland in the Arctic Council. It's like the highest. A minister in his speech is the northern business to become more and more important in international affairs and therefore I encourage ministers in the context of maintaining environmental issues. They are certainly not just the interests of us Icelanders but the interests of the world. There is also an opportunity to cooperate with the Arctic and Arctic Council by touching surfaces with large and influential nations that we so so desperately need. I also welcome continued emphasis on cultural issues that are an important part of the foreign policy as well as continued emphasis on equality, especially on the United Nations scene, which I would like to discuss in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u99	A respectable president. I choose to take it that way. A senator has not had an opportunity to listen to my entire speech and answers, for much of what was presented here was what I was discussing there, especially about Bgret. All that I've had. A senator there mentioned a question, I can go over it again. For the fact that there's no division between lawsuits, I know why. A senator with a seat in his head. The Foreign Affairs Committee, was not at a meeting when it was specifically reviewed. There's a ratio of that, of which. A senator speaks a lot about developing cooperation, in 2017, from 35% of the group's expenses to 39% under budget, but it is quite right that we should put this budget forward for the first time. However, she is supposed to lay down the rough lines, be the big plan, and it is not fair to ask for others to go over as if it were budgeted. Only with regard to the United States government and the VG. Not only, and that was understandable in these difficult circumstances, that government reduced the contributions in the dollars considered for development but also proportionately. It went down to 0.2% and has never been lower in the past few years. Thus, it was not only in a dollar number but also in the proportion to be maintained. No one here was talking about commercializing development. What men are referring to here are the world's goals. We must agree that we are going to follow them. It shows that we will not achieve our world goals unless there is more than just public funds. That is what other nations are doing. We're just comparing ourselves to the Northlands. If people want us to go anywhere other than the North, that's all they're supposed to say. I have thought that it would be good to know that we would learn from the North countries when it comes to various litigation groups, including The development team. It's not just about Bfenit, working on foreign trade. We're discussing this in a much larger context. All that I've had. A senator named me as a emphasis on Britain. [[The president calls.]] The nature of the case, I can't tell you now, because it's not started, what the outcome of the contracts will be because the contracts have not begun. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u100	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister of state to ease matters, I can tell you that I listened very carefully and carefully to his case and his answer here. I have great compassion for the situation in Britain too. That's definitely kaos from the British government. Only with regard to this change in private and sectoral policy in developing cooperation. It says on page 18. 7 in a report at the top. Ministers that there is a great need to examine all the possibilities of cooperation with private companies and the job life on developing projects where possible. Clearly, public funds are not enough to reach world markets. Privacy is needed. This is a policy change in which I asked for an explanation on and at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was simply trying to wash his hands off here if I did not stumble.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u101	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u102	In terms of contributions to development during the time of the left movement, a green supply and a government body of cohesion points to the highest potential. The minister of the foreign office is to say that contributions have been partially reduced. Why was that, chief? Secretary of state? Because there was a 2008 economic collapse and a cutdown in all areas of society. The Left Green and Conspiracy Government set out an ambitious goal of giving in a more handsome way than the government in today's government and also the alien government. I refuse to be talking here as if we're living in the same economic situation today as just after a collapse. However, goals and political policies are very different. Everything else. You can read this in the highest report. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u103	Only on account of the contributions. They are often addressed in the discussion, not in the numbers. If we have the same number, i.e. The share of GDP is increasing, with the increase in the number. Sometimes it does. However, a senator talks about the proportion of GDP.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u104	National cartels, not national product.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u105	Hv. A senator will then have to accept the fact that the proportion also declined in the long left greens and the Conspiracies. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] So if men were setting priorities, especially in developing matters, they would not do so if they wanted to use that standard. It was quite clear that the amount went down, that was clearly clear because national production was severely reduced naturally. No one has said otherwise. I haven't been attacking what? Councilmen about this. What I'm saying is maybe men shouldn't hit their breasts. There were promises of a number of elections that went their way. I'm sure it wasn't the only group of paintings promised for so much. Let's leave it between parts. What I'm here to refer to are world goals, and when I talk about evolution, I'm referring to the fact that it is happening, everywhere people have been focusing on developing issues and world goals, there must be more than public capital. I'm just a little sharp. Councilmen to see what North countries are doing and what people are talking about in the United Nations. This is about us putting the developing nations in the place we are. That's the goal. It will not be done just by means of development; there is such a possibility. We Icelanders are a fine example of this. That's what I'm talking about. A senator's sympathy for the British must be that way. It is a project for both the European Union and the British to work best at this. We must trust our friends on both sides of the English Channel to finish it. It's the best thing for everyone to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u106	Thank you very much. Secretary of state for the counter-sponsore. I would have liked to hear about developing issues why so much progress in developing matters is being done on a national project. I support it, and I will always make the financial contribution of the refugees and the rest of the shelterers to increase in all respects. But pinching it from financial contributions to developing abroad is inappropriate. That's not appropriate. [[Up front.]] Regarding the centenarian I was asking for at the highest. Secretary of State told me about that, i.e. About the quality grant, of the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Both the prime minister has been talking about the figures of crowns that are not in touch with the standards we have accepted but the ratio. But if it's the highest. Foreign and Presidency ministers want to link these cases to the crowns then there has been an enormous creviction because the cost of development is, of course, paid in foreign currency. Sadly, once the dollar has grown, that dollar number has decreased. But then I'm interested, first of all. The minister of state is in favor of answering me, which is good and pleasant to do so, and I would also have liked to have some answers to what he has to say on the matters of refugees and refugees in a multinational campaign, i.e. the need to take appropriate precautions on the border and respond to the arrival of refugees and fugitives. What's at the top? In that regard, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, a minister of exactly what he did?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u107	A respectable president. It's nice to be here and discuss a report. Foreign Minister on foreign and international matters submitted to the Council. It has to be said, as it is, that when I read across the entrance that the government's financial programme is being resolved, I didn't expect much, since the financial plan is relatively low when it comes to the inclusion of results and what has been going on in foreign affairs for Iceland. There are more columns that are available, since things are not measurable, which may well be understandable, as foreign cases may be repugnant. Maybe there could be something out of it, including to see how our friends in other parts of the North speak the same thing. To the point. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more than I have to. I would like to discuss foreign service and the good work the foreign service has been doing. I'm especially happy with civil service. It is a very good enterprise that really needs to be advertised and introduced. I'm very much in agreement with a report of the U.S. Minister of State... of the need to activate the information medium... and inform the people about the position and purpose of civil service at the Ministry of State. On the other hand, there are several points regarding the relatively weakly answered or unsatisfactory foreign service, especially if you consider it in connection with the financial program. On page 18. 44 of the government's policy declaration says, with permission of the President: The development of the European Union in the years to come must be closely monitored and strictly observed in Iceland according to its individual circumstances. Special attention should be paid to the possibility of giving away from the relationship with Britain. The Parliament closely monitors Europe's development and increases its links to sister institutions in other European countries. It's good and good and great. In particular when we review the financial program, and I don't see that the report we're dealing with here tells a different story, the foreign service was cut to the bone after a collapse, like the highest level. Secretary of state mentioned in his case earlier. Sad to say, the economic situation had to be severely cut, and if not the most important of the foreign work and foreign service, it suffered. As many as 30% in foreign service have been reported to cut down. It hasn't been built again by the same force. There's something I miss in this report if this is to give some perspective, and as with the financial plan. Because it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was now not present when we discussed the financial program. Rather, his substitute, perhaps it is all right for me to join them for a little while. I miss a vision of the future when it comes to rebuilding foreign service, especially in order to carry out the standards of the government, which are now valid, especially when it comes to the European Union and British resignation. It says, by permission of the president: The EEA's Directorates and Directorates of the European Commission and meet the requirements of the EEA Convention. At the time of the EEA Convention, it is at least good news that the Import Hall has been decreasing, as the report shows. He was very tall at the time, but we've done a little bit of work in cooperation with the various Ministry and Generals and with the Generals' committees, but there's something else that's always been raised in discussions, that we need to be able to deal with earlier in the process. The EEA, the European Economic Area, and the European Union are really one of our key areas. No matter what. A minister feels that we should walk in the European Union or not, so it is simply that we need to take better care of the protection there. According to what I have learned about the work of Iceland in the European Economic Areas and in the European Union, there are literature workers at the embassies in Brussels 13. The report states that Iceland has a small foreign service. This may be normal, considering that Iceland is a small country, we are a small nation - but 13 employees. According to the information I received from the embassy website, there are four employees either with professional groups or with a range of projects facing the European Union, and of these four are one responsible for the EEA. If we compare it with Norway, who is in a situation similar to ours, certainly a somewhat larger country, then there are two Norwegian embassies in Brussels, one about Belgium and one about the European Union. Of these, there are seven who do only conventional jobs at the embassy for Belgium and 52 employees who take care of Norway's interest in the European Union. I'm not saying we have to go up to 52, but we need at least one employee at each topic field into the embassy. What I miss in both financial programs, which is not really the subject here but is, however, and in this report when it comes to the future, there is no vision of building up in this field. There is no future view of trying to get representatives from other facades to have a interests guard in Brussels. It was the values released after the collapse. Now we are simply at the point where we need to expand this work, we need to start sending counseling to Brussels to have an active interest guard. It's just about time. There's nothing here that I'm looking at, which suggests that there's more to this, but maybe I'm missing something. The Brussels office may be one of the most important sources we have, we implement the regulations that come from there. Although we are doing a very good job there, we do not have enough success in caring for our interests. Similarly, I have received an ear that one of the delegates will be brought to London to monitor our position on Bgreit. I'd like to make the most of it. Secretary of State in making sure that there will be new status but that there will not be an application that will lead to Brussels's loss of staff. It is absolutely essential that we keep these employees, because this is a very small office that is carrying out an enormously important task, an extremely important interest service for Iceland. It's a matter of every handshake. For Bgret, I'm very into the fact that the Icelanders go to Britain specifically, increasing their presence in London for our special interests there, both for exporting and import from Britain as well as for cultural ties and so forth through the streets that I probably don't need to make a tenth of it. On the other hand, I found a very strange sentence on page 8. 32 With President's permission: Although Britain has refused involvement in the internal markets, and thus giving up EU solution, it is not shut down for shooting that it can be suitable for British interests to seek EFTA because of the framework it provides to hold on to free trade agreements in many countries. When I spoke to the president of the United Kingdom Department of Foreign Affairs these days, there seemed to be no evidence that the EU solution had been fully administered as fixed. So I don't completely agree with the interpretation here because it seems that they want a particular internal market, but they don't want the free flow of people and workers, which seems to be the problem in all of this. I don't quite understand where that sentence comes from. Although the British have refused involvement in the European Union, I do not feel that they have refused to be part of the arrangement we have. At least that's not the message I've received through my channels. There may be some misunderstanding, either with me or in this text. Maybe I'll read something different. Although you always think that 15 minutes is a very long time to communicate, that's not the case. So I continue with foreign service, and I want to direct it specifically to the secretary of state, then it is the right thing to say on page 29 regarding the embassy in Copenhagen, 10,000 Icelanders live in Denmark, doing an extremely important job. This body of messengers also needs to be strengthened. We need to revise where we have emissaries. Well, now that I'm on my way to say it here, it'd be great to see some vision about Poland. About 1% of the population is of Polish origin. Approximately Two percent of the workers at the job market are Polish, 6,000, and 10,000 people at any given time. It is important that we strengthen the bond between these countries. It's a vision I'd also like to come up with in foreign and international work. I'm just about to talk about developing cooperation. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir about the large share that goes to refugees and inmates. If I recall correctly, it could only be counted as a development partnership for the first year and a half, something like that. If those who flee are diminished, how will they be divided? I think it is important to think only about it and, at the same time, to set the goal of raising the funds we put in developing cooperation. It is the goal set by the United Nations that developed industrialized countries contribute 0.7% of GDP, reminds me, but we only contribute 0.26, which is naturally considerably less. I am particularly reminded of the urgent details of Iceland's Red Cross on this very point, that Iceland has been an acceptable development aid. It's also a matter of giving back to society. This may be more urgent to the highest level. Minister to do more. With regard to refugees and fugitives, I want to know if it is temporary and whether it is our aim in developing cooperation to receive so many refugees, that it is our contribution, not that. I'd like to thank you for this report. There were a lot of interesting things there. Most of my speech was about our foreign service. I didn't even get into the D.C. foreign service, which I believe we also need to strengthen in the light of the development that is going on in the United States with the arrival of Trumps as President. The embassy needs to be strengthened. Foreign service needs to be strengthened. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs needs to take pride in this assignment. You need to strengthen your foreign service in London. The Brussels Foreign Service needs an increase in human resources, Washington as well, and most notably Copenhagen. We also need to look to other countries, where we have a lot of cultural and commercial ties, although they may not be appreciated in the same way as they do. China or London. I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta the Guðrún of Helgadóttir for an excellent talk, as she put matters to the fore. I'm gonna try to go over some of it for a while. A senator asked me about it. First, just because I couldn't get into it before, about the development teamwork. Like other nations, we live by the standards set by OECD. This is not always done in developing countries. We've been doing it since 1979, for example. We have attended the United States School of Undergrounds as one part of our development aid, and he is making great use of development aid. We also support the United Nations, the World Bank, and various things, and this is by no means the norm. One of them turns to refugees. We didn't invent this, but we all know that when you're with 65 million refugees, who are equivalent to the population of the entire United Kingdom, there have never been more people, but we need to respond. The money we put in there is just calculated as in other nations. We did not invent these standards. It's interesting as hell. A senator said about Poland. Many people are not aware of this great deal of communication between the Polish and the Icelanders and how large the Polish population has grown in this country and has been very successful in adjusting. Let us not forget that Poland also helped us greatly after the collapse of our economic situation. I don't know about the British and the EEA. I was interviewing Sky the other day with one of the main reporters there, and the whole interview was in an effort to explain the differences between the EEA and EFTA. All of this will be revealed. We are evaluating the situation as to how we can use our money to the best of our ability. A senator was talking about Brussels and EES. What we're going to do now, I can do it in my second answer, because it's extremely important. A senator, in effect, concluded a 2007 - year - old report led by Björn Bjarnason's son. If I remember correctly, I could. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, concluded the best way to win this project. [[The president calls.]] I think it's time we started working it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u109	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, although perhaps the question might have been clearer. I'm glad we're at the highest. Secretary of state is at least I agree with you about Poland. However, I would like to direct a question to the highest. Minister on the Ministry, whether it is time we reassign the council to Brussels to monitor the events that are going on there. Would that not ease the whole process, especially when we at the Generals are reviewing all of this EEA? Is it not time for the Ministry of State simply to take the initiative that these will go into the financial program or at least to make money available to do so? I agree with the highest. A minister when the time comes when we will have to work according to the standards that we have so long ago. It's been 10 years since 2007, so it's about time. I can't stress how important it is that we keep Iceland's interests well in the European Economic Area, but we need to do better. I think it's absolutely necessary that the Ministry then have his agents inside the table. I'd like to have a response from the highest level. Minister for exactly this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u110	I'm going to go straight to it. paritaprevir Turn in and I couldn't answer my previous answer. The EEA Convention expects us to influence the early stages, that is the most easily effective time we can have. We can, for example, affect early stages because this is in the European Parliament. We take a small percentage of the types of the European Union into our legislation, but there is a considerable amount, and that's what I'm referring to. A very important database has long been built, since we have all the EEA buildings and it is to be available to the public and the General. It also needs to be white books when this starts. I think it's not only about the presence of individuals, it's about that Iceland's interest organization get this when it's in that place. Likewise, I've been thinking for a long time that we're supposed to have here a regular EEA/EFTA Committee that would include... Let's talk about this. The sooner we look at it, the sooner we get to it, the better. It is all in this report, which is now ten years old and was a parapolitic stand for. There are other ideas that I find to be good, including. for a plagion service in which men make connections so that we can have an effect when we have to do so. Often we disagree, but most often we agree that some factors need to be influenced. Then there's the other thing that has to do with Norway, which is why I signed a cooperation declaration with the Norwegian coal that we would work together on these issues. Working with the Norwegians has been a success. There's a lot more, there's 5 million of them, and they put much more money into it in general, including Because of what they are because of the oil field, which is a different matter. Our cooperation with them has been successful, and we should continue to do so. So, of course, Liechtenstein is also, but of course, we go much more to the Norwegians. That cooperation can be both, and we should strengthen and strengthen it even more. I hope that answers my question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u111	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for his speech today and for the report. There is indeed good reason to discuss Iceland's position in the international community and probably less important to discuss and talk about what state we want to be in the community of the nations. We are sailing into a new era in international politics, a time where it is even more important that we politicians, but also us as a community, stand fast, and with liberal values. We are living in an era where increasing protectionism and isolationism are taking place in our part of the world. Therefore, I'm especially happy about the importance of our cooperation with the EU that we are in the report, since international cooperation is something smaller as Iceland has to do with and before. I also welcome the way the policy published in this report reflects the reality we live in, i.e. that our interests are actually completely integrated with the European Union's interests, especially when it comes to business, but also with political culture. This is particularly important, it is especially important that we all be aware of this today when we see a particular tendency in the countries around us in the other direction, toward more isolation, toward higher emphasis, in two of our major friends, in two - side communication at the expense of international communication. Both the British and the Americans seem to be leaning back on the door. I personally do not give much for the new British slogan, with the permission of presidents: 'Truly global Britanin,' because I think so, and the words our friends in the United Kingdom have held in connection with the slogan, really best to say, make an uncomfortable impression, by permission of the President, to the President, to the makelettes Britan grate. Britain seems less liberal, except for what is in their narrow national interest. I find this trend in general dangerous, but I also find it dangerous because it simply does not serve our national interests. But maybe it's just Thai? you might ask yourself. When they do, they lean back on the door. Yes, it's an indiscreet fashion. You blame others for what goes wrong and try to find short - term solutions to solve a huge challenge that would have to be handled by long - term, open - minded thinking, and challenges that would, of course, be most effective for a country to cope with together. So this is not good. It doesn't solve any problems with a state lonely, but it seems to be a trend today. We see it elsewhere in Europe and then, of course, in Turkey. These new emphasis are not in the spirit of the liberality we would like to represent here on the land, and they threaten, in my opinion, our interests directly. This is a serious situation, especially for small countries like Iceland. You see, Iceland has everything to do with stability in our part of the world. We all agree that communication, transportation, transportation, and trade are as open and international as possible. This is exactly what we can see in the report that repeatedly introduces the importance of this country. This involves not only the economic security of our country but also the ability to protect and protect our country. We are living in a time when peace in our part of the world may not necessarily be self - aware, even though we may have accepted it as such in the past few decades. The vast uncertainty surrounding the U.S. leadership of the United States increases tension between Russia and America and the North Korea and the United States, the wide gap that is developing between the European Union and Turkey, the situation in Ukraine, Syria, and the rest of the United States. - These are factors that are both directly involved in our part of the world and that we could be affected by the so - called infectious effects of. Mr. President. Today, we live in a time when we need to remember to protect and fight for the freedom that we have worked so hard to achieve. It is just this, no more or less, times that we are beginning to realize how important it is for Iceland that the European Union survives, not only by commercial or economic grounds, but from the fundamental role of the European Union when it comes to securing peace in the continent. If it turns out that our part of the world is more divided into the kingdoms that choose international cooperation and those who want to work two-way cooperation. It is my opinion that we should join those who prefer international cooperation beyond two-way cooperation, as such. The North countries, rather than betting on bringing the emphasis on the two - side cooperation, as Britain and the United States seem to be doing. There are truly people today who focus on wasting Europe, driving the European Union. We're not supposed to be there. We are to be part of the European Union, not only because it is the right thing to do in the situation, but also because it directly serves our national interests and needs. That's why I'm not one of the few that celebrate British exits from the European Union. I don't think it's good for stability in the continent. This is not good for the EU. It's not good for the British, and it's not good for Iceland. The economic situation of smaller countries, especially small countries such as Iceland, depends on global success. We are dependent on others, on the one hand, on the matter of securing our economic safety and on the other hand, when it comes to routine protection and safety. It's enough to watch, e.g. to our two main exports, tourism, and fishing roads. It is obvious that international tourism is all dependent on the absence of conflict and peace in our part of the world. We're totally dependent on the fact that transportation to and from the country is the best. If people get scared for safety, if people get scared that their safety is threatened during their trips to Iceland, many people are likely to think twice about it. Such situations would threaten our economic security. Mr. President. With Bbifit, we're watching one of our main business partners disappear out of our main business block, the European Economic Area, of the inner market. 11% of our export products, mostly fish, go to the British. Of course, continuing that market is of utmost importance and of course government priorities. At the same time, it is quite clear that most of our export products are available to the European Union. So we have to watch out for that market, watch out for our relationship with the European Union, and stand with the European Union, our largest market. Based on liberalness, on the national grounds, Baltrexit is clearly a major concern. There's a lot of challenges. They are, in fact, considered in the report, which prefers to mention that the EFTA countries differ when it comes to negotiations with the British, which means that we are likely to have to negotiate two-sided. We're probably in a different position than the British. You see, two-sided contracts always serve the interests of the great state. We will likely be late in our position to be the great international Kingdom, despite the fact that our country is large in square miles. The fact is, small countries are more comfortable, having more chances in international agreements, than in two - side contracts with big countries. It seems then that the British and the Norwegians see their advantage in making the British walk in EFTA, that's not obvious. In addition, there are challenges when it comes to negotiating air travel. That's an enormous interest issue. It's in the secretary's report, like the points I've cut in the front. The interests of our citizens who live and study in Britain and those who are even interested in doing so in the future are then being discussed, but it will be a challenge to secure those interests. Then there's the mackerel. That's another big deal for us. The report directly states, with the permission of a president: It may not be possible that an increase in the number of contracts will be a simple negotiation that has proved to be complex. So that's certainly where there's an increase in misunderstanding for Iceland in our interests. All of this, it seems to me that British exits produce far more unstable than stability and opportunities for Iceland's international communications. When we face such challenges, we as a nation and as a government must deal with them. I'm glad the report shows and goes well that the Ministry is aware of the challenges I have faced. Mr. President. I began by saying that it probably was less important to talk about what state we want to be in the nations'society. But it may be more correct and more important to insist that we have no choice, i.e. We must be open, and we must fight for the world and our parts to remain as open as possible. We all depend on that. Then, looking at the fact that we're a small country without an army and we're totally in the Atlantic Union, on the defense deal with the United States, and on the Norse Defense and Security Team, it will be explained that stability in the international field is the best thing for a small country like us. Insecurity, insecurity, and insecurity are more difficult for smaller countries; I do not talk about military insecurity in the international field. We must adapt to a new reality, as we can best. It is our job as politicians and our community. We do this both by discussing defense and security, but also by carrying responsibility and fulfilling our role in the real stability of our part of the world. Safety and defense are fundamental sources of sovereignty and the basic obligation of the government to secure them. So I welcome the clear direction reflected in the report of this series. We need to start a more serious discussion about the seminary and see how we can do more. That's where we play on the Foreign Affairs Committee a key role. This is something that we will discuss in detail at the Committee's work and in the discussions at the council. Then, in particular, I rejoice that the report speaks for the fundamental idea of our role as a nation on earth that we should set a good example and speak loudly and clearly to the values we stand for; equality, liberalness, respect for international law, respect for justice, for human rights in its vastest sense, but also for international cooperation. To speak of it must be a fundamental factor in our international interest care, for without this, our existence is really threatened if we are in conflict in our part of the world. We are to use the great and positive attention that we now enjoy in order to speak in terms of equality, the liberal values I mentioned, and the multiethnic work, of responsibility and balance. By doing so, we will draw attention and ears to people and to other nations. That would make us the best interests of Iceland. At the end, I'd like to direct a few questions to the minister on the subject of the report. First, you want to ask about the Baltic Sea. The report says that we Icelanders may be meeting with foreign advisers of the Member States of the Baltic Council in June. When I spoke at the council meeting a few weeks ago, it wasn't quite port. Can a minister confirm that this is the case and that for the first time for several years, it is advisable to have a meeting at the Ministerial Level? Then I'd like to ask the secretary about his dealings with Turkey in NATO. The report well illustrates the sobering journey on which the president of Turkey is leading his country. Can a minister tell us if this journey has any effect on the cooperation in NATO? It is also regarding the information services of the Ministry and the protection of interest in the European Union. I heard, and I'm glad the Minister came into the EEA database earlier and that it was absolutely certain that members of Congress could access that database and then the public. I'd like to ask a minister if he has any information about when we can get that access. I think it's extremely important for us as senators and for the general public so that we can fulfill our obligation and role in the interests of others. Then I'd like to ask about the foreign trade. It's the highest. Ministers do not have an opportunity in the fact that economic growth has taken place in all EU countries, unemployment, pay have increased, and the general economic situation in Europe has improved? Does he see an opportunity to do that? Then at the end, I'd like to ask a minister to explain the opportunities for Iceland he's been talking about and if he doesn't agree with me in that he and his Ministry may need to understand only the new opportunities he provides for Iceland to make up for the discussion right now. He may have made a statement, but it is a question of whether a minister will foresee that there will be a report on this matter. It would be interesting to have a minister's input on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I don't agree with her about a small country losing two-way contracts. We have a clear example. We have a deal with China. We're a little smaller than China. I don't know that nobody claimed that we've lost that deal. I think it's a story why. The senator's not right. When the British were in the European Union at their time, they became known as Prime Minister Edward Heaths, who said: "We will enter the common market, not a political alliance. Another came during the day. The majority of the issues have been made that the European Union and its leaders wanted to create and act on it. I have not seen any evidence that the European Union was one of a special vacation partnerships or emphasized it at the scene of WTO or GATT before going to a vacation store. My final essay in political science at one time was about GATT and WTO, and I have observed it quite closely ever since. I think we're supposed to talk about values, not institutions. This organisation is very controversial, trust in the EU in the Member States has continued to decline over the past few decades, the democracies are high and there have been some problems. If we set these values and say, "You're not in the relevant values unless you're a member of the EU or EFTA or the EEA or whatever it is, I think we're going to have a problem. There will be a meeting on June 20th in the Baltic Sea. There are factors. The situation in Turkey affects all cooperation, but people are trying to contribute to the forces of Turkey that meet our values and hope that Turkey will remain a democratic state that keeps man - made rights in place. About the new opportunities. I've mentioned it a lot. On the one hand, this turns to the fact that we have customs on our lips through the EEA Convention, e.g. The seafood. I disagree. A senator says that this is British isolationism, a long road away. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator knows that if she has listened to the discussion, not just in recent decades, but in recent decades, he knows that the British have criticized them in particular, what the European Union is all about. [[The president calls.]] And they intend to go to an extra vacation store.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u113	Probably no one is surprised to learn that we ministers have different priorities in the European Union. But I found it interesting what he came on and I think I did exactly that in my speech earlier, i.e. talking about the values and the big picture. I was just doing it, thinking about the big movie, ◯um out. We may not agree that the British are coming out of the EU multinational work. The European Union is a multinational teamwork. The fact that Britain is subtracting to stand alone in increasing two-way communication, I understand as a sign of increased isolationism on the part of Britain, as if the British said they were going to close themselves, they say: we're going to have a stricter border guard than before, we're open to people, but only for the best and the best, as they say. It's now the whole opening. The European Union is not just an internal market, although the British have claimed it in their time. Of course, the European Union has developed tremendously over the decades and much more in being a political alliance. We know this well because we are now participants in this political alliance. What is cooperation in educational and cultural fields other than a certain political partnership? I'm not talking about Schengen, who falls under the European Union's internal and judicial rights? It's just high political. We're participants in the politics. About the Democracy Palace. He's been criticized many times and often. However, you may ask yourself, " Did the Democracy Palace for the EEA/EFTA States, such as Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein, not increase much with the publication of the Lisbon Convention, where we have not reached the European Parliament, which has become as decision-making with the Ministers? ' We don't have a party there. We don't have any agents there. [[The president calls.]] This has increased the Democracy Palace in the EEA Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u114	A respectable president. I'm just saying, if the Icelanders are supposed to be in the European Union, and if they'd seen the Brussels power as it has been, I think that pretty much every Icelander would say, "We need to get out of here right away." To have people that no one can control, no one can choose, with that vast power. In Britain they even looked at people who lost a vote, such as Neil Kinnock and Peter Mandelson, who are so much more powerful than governments. I have often visited the European Parliament. There are people with perfect tax benefits. Britain's media reports that of the 50,000 officials, or Brussels, who are 10,000 who have a higher salary than the British prime minister. [[Up front.]] Perfect rightsmen with no responsibilities. A host can't have anything to do with it. Now it may well be that some Icelander would say, " It's just fine, and we can experience it. I don't think Icelanders will ever be able to accept this. I couldn't agree more. A senator when she says: " Let us be open, let us keep that mark. I find it incredibly unfair to the people who fought this in Britain who have fought for it in the European Union that it changes and puts more of it on vacation, opens up, become democratic, that it has come and said to these people, no matter what you think of them: Hey, everything you say is just isolationism. I think that's very unfair. And putting this up so that if you're not ready for the Brussels package, they're insulationists. That's what I think is destroying the cause. We agree that we should stick to the values we stand for, whether it is human rights, rights, or a free economy, and we are to spread a vacation trade throughout the world. We could not do that in the European Union. It's perfectly clear, there's no one to argue about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u115	A respectable president. I can't agree with this last thing. The European Union has made extensive free trade contracts worldwide available to the Community member countries. This with the involvement of the European Union and the indication of ineffectability in Member States. We can just say to each other that we disagree, we just keep on with it. I don't agree with you at all. These countries have seats at the table. They're in the council of Leadership, the Ministers' Council. They can appoint their managers. They can send in their experts. They are with European Parliaments and more and more. To minimize the role of the European Parliament, which has just been in a constant development to meet these democracies and talk about some salary in a twist - I'm not even going to answer that. But the fact is, and I came into it earlier, no matter what. Ministers may feel about the European Parliament, the fact that Iceland has no access to the European Parliament, we have no access to the European Parliament that has received an enormously important decision-making authority to match the Council of Ministers. There's no stopping us there. But there is no increasing democracy that goes beyond this increase in power in the European Parliament, so I don't know what. Probably, the Democratic Palace of the EEA has never been as great as it is today. For Bgreit and not for isolationism, there we disagree again. I can then only talk to the rights of nearly half the British who chose not to leave the European Union, which was, in fact, young people in more parts. The majority of young Britain's powers of continued membership in the European Union were chosen because it provided an opportunity for them to be involved. [[The president calls.]] And we can also discuss the Scots and the discussions in Scotland that they see their sovereign capital in the European Union much rather than outside it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u116	A respectable president. I don't really know where to begin. I thought it was this speech. A senator somehow out of the picture and out of all shapes with what is happening in general in Europe. It is as if the senator missed a few recent news reports. Last night, one of the presidents of France was talking about how if the European Union did not change, people would see that, i.e. to discuss leaving the European Union. At the same time, people in the Netherlands are discussing the need for the European Union to change otherwise there is a risk that the Dutch will leave the European Union. This is the European Union. A senator would love to get into Iceland. The European Union that all are calling for changes, the European Union some are fleeing like British, not because they want isolationism, but because the European Union is a isolationist relationship. In the European Union, you are under the law that you cannot make free contracts. The European Union makes all negotiations for you, you cancel that right. Iceland is outside the European Union today, and hopefully Britain will be there in two years. A senator calls it isolationism. So I ask them if Japan is an isolational state because there is not someone in the European Union and any such relationships? Is Brazil an isolated state because it is not a member of a multinational organization? But wait - the use of proben - Iceland is a member of the international and international organisations. Iceland is participating in the international and international projects around the world without being in the European Union. I'd like to ask you, too. Senator: What's wrong with the European Union? Could it be that what's wrong in the European Union, for example, is the euro that most economists warn against and say is a ruined currency? Could it be that what's wrong in the European Union is the excessive unemployment that has plagued the relationship and, in particular, young people for a long time? It may be that what's wrong in the European Union is that the National Parliament does not really hire and call for it, e.g. In Portugal, that greater power will be restored from Brussels to the council? Could it be that there's something wrong in the European Union? Could it be that the European Union discovered it last year or after meeting that perhaps just a few of these laws that the European Union has unnecessaryly arranged for the special commutation, former foreign minister of the Netherlands, Franz Timmanman? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I cannot see how, in any case, the changing of the European Union can be negative. Has not the European Union been changing since its birth? I also ask, hasn't Iceland been changing since the 1950's? [[Up front.]] Has Iceland changed since then? It is natural for state and state to change and develop to meet changing needs, changing circumstances. Of course. There would be something wrong if the European Union did not try to change and develop to meet the needs of the citizens, there would be a special relationship, a state of decomposition. I don't think anyone would want to be part of such a relationship. Hence, trying to change is exactly so as to meet the needs and needs of the citizens. Thus, the European Union develops. I don't understand. A senator versus evolution? What's he talking about? I think that's what it is, too. A senator must keep in mind only why the European Union came about. Why did the European Union come into existence? The European Union did not merely become involved in business, but to ensure peace in the continent, to make sure that we would not have to face the same challenges and disasters as the European Union, and Iceland also experienced this, had to go through at its own time. This is why the European Union came into existence. So I don't understand the profound contempt that I feel somehow here in the words of a senator to the European Union. In fact, the European has proved to be a far more stable currency, because of the problem. A senator entered it, but a dollar. Where's the dollar now? It's swinging like a leaf in the fall, and what? Is it possible to fall off the tree? What do we know? Economic growth is increasing in the European Union. This has reduced unemployment in the European Union. That's a fact. [[The president calls.]] Then I ask, because of what. A senator finds the European Union to the fore, the European Union, which we are adjunct to, that's just a fact: Is he suggesting that we walk out of the EEA, which guarantees an increase in the European Union? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u118	A respectable president. I'm the one who's asking and asking. On the other hand, a senator decides not to answer one question I asked her. Rather, he goes on for a long time to avoid answering those simple questions. I'm gonna answer one question for what? A senator. It's not the European Union itself, it's not Brussels who wants to change. Politicians, e.g. In France and the Netherlands and Portugal, they are calling for a change. But against it, the communicators of Brussels fight. [[Up front.]] This we have seen and knew well. Hv. A senator here spoke of not closing himself outside the European Union, that there is more freedom in the European Union. How can this be achieved if you cannot make your own agreement? Does the senator disagree that if we enter the European Union, we will cancel all our rights to make, for example, vacation contracts? Using probe, the EFTA countries have made a lot more vacation contracts than ever in the European Union. Hv. A senator can look it up to Google, I suppose even. Of course, there is a big difference between us between the European Union. But I'm here asking specific questions as a boy. A senator chooses not to answer. I ask questions about that: Is there anything wrong with the European Union, considering? A senator? Doesn't unemployment have been a problem in the European Union? It's fine if economic growth is growing. We'll make up for that, Icelanders, when we're moving out to the European Union. But what has been going on in the European Union? How many people have lost almost everything there? Why? Because of the collapse there was. Is there an equal figure in Europe? Gonna go for it. A senator telling me that the situation in southern Europe is equal to that of people in northern Europe? Will the senator also tell me that the European Union, 500 million people, did a great job of welcoming one million refugees? They couldn't take over one million refugees, these 500 million, because there was no system, no decision - making process to take on these refugees, and the relationship is still out of control. They are confident that Turks, whatever may be said of the blessed, will rescue them. Now Turks have a grip on the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u119	No, I haven't said that the European Union is a perfect, more dignified president and boy. Senator. I haven't said that, since I said the European Union is developing in constant development and it has to develop just as Iceland has evolved. Is Iceland perfect? Has Iceland been perfect? Didn't Iceland have an economic breakdown? Did not nations around the world experience economic hardships, just as we do when we were not in the European Union? Yes, the European Union faced economic hardships just as we do here in Iceland. The European Union has been working out these economic hardships. As I said before, economic growth is on its way, and he's on his way up. It's reducing unemployment. Yes, it was unemployment, even unemployment, here at the time of the economic breakdown. It was. With free shop contracts, I completely agree. A senator says that they are of good quality. I would never object to a state of free trade agreements. However, the European Union has apparently made a deal with a third state. So you can ask yourself: " Is there a 300 thousand people in a better position to negotiate with a large state or higher state of state or economy, such as the European Union? It's a certain kind of food you need to think about. It may well be that the European Union is in a good position to negotiate with a third state or state law, a good vacation agreements that all EU Member States benefit from. I'll have to say again. A senator speaks of the European Union as being totally out of touch with us. We're filming all the European legislation that exists. We're in Schngen, a deep court and domestic partnership. We're in a political alliance with the European Union. We're added to the European Union, but we don't have a place at the table. We don't have a voice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u120	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for report. You get in on this conversation quite well. This report does not include much new information, but it is a fine list of the vacancy and what has been done lately. I must say, a minister of foreign affairs in the last term for some time, that I am quite pleased to see how things have worked out at that time. There are, however, certain changes and certain aspects, certain work that have been done, and I'm going through it, and I'm going to trace through the report during this brief period of time that I have. The introduction refers to the main points of interest, of course, security and defense and foreign trade. I'll stop by two things. On one hand, it's always good to warn us Icelanders that our safety and protection interests are based on two pillars, i.e. The deal with the Americans and our beings at the Atlantic Union. Then we are referred to as a national security policy that we completed during the last terms that were very good. I expect soon we will be able to see the National Security Council arranged. There's also talk of a defense plan. It is very important to note for the highestv. Minister and Ministry to stay on their toes when it comes to defense projects for Iceland. After safety was reduced or partly broken down in Europe during a Russian invasion in Ukraine, it was found that any defensive strategy needed to be updated. At the time, the defense plan was not to be updated for Iceland, but we were able to change it. It's very important to keep an eye on this. On page 18. 7 deals with developing cooperation. But before I come to page 18. 7 I'm going to pause at my favorite in this report, or one of them, they're quite many, and that's this: This is so wonderful to me, for it is absolutely accurate. Instead of constantly dwelling on this European relationship, some three may want to do. As the report on the development teamwork and the minister came into his case, a development research agency was united into the Ministry during the last term. Now you can work with this number of employees as a team and as a team that I think will be a great improvement and will benefit greatly from developing cooperation. I would also like to mention two things that are not specifically mentioned on page 20. 7 The emphasis, of course, cannot be emphasized by a minister, but it is the destruction of the soil and equality that are important for developing cooperation and leading to it in Iceland, especially now in the process of demolition, where we can contribute a great deal. Then I completely agree with the minister that if we are going to reach our world goals, we need to go to a private person. They won't be caught anywhere else. There's no use hitting your head with the stone in it. We need help from the private sector. There are various ways in which you can do this. Maybe you're wondering if the private sector in Iceland is helping out. The marine road has been renewing ships and absorbing much of the waste resources of ships that are more efficient with energy, etc. All of this helps. On page 18. 9 talks about civil service. Civil service is one of the major roles of this small foreign service in Iceland. That is where the 1,40,250 voters make a key issue. The least of these things is overrated. It is important to think that these provisions are of enormous importance. They may be interested in doing more for us than saving Icelanders in some kind of trouble. On page 18. 14 and continue to talk about international and foreign affairs. I'm gonna stop there by two. It's Russia and Turkey. It is not that the Icelandic government wants to do an evil thing with Russia. It's not like that. Russia, on the other hand, invaded Ukraine and incorporated the Monsters, a violation of international law. We cannot ignore such efforts because our interests, main interests, are in accord with the respect of international laws. That's why I'm happy to be the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is very firm in this, as expected. About Turkey, I'm just going to say this: I'm very worried about the developments that take place in Turkey. It seems that the standards that most Western nations, especially Icelanders, set for freedom of speech and human rights are violated almost every day after the coup that was attempted there and was, of course, illegal and never to occur. It seems that Erdogan and his team used it to gain greater power. I'm worried about this because, of course, Iceland has a lot of relationships and partnerships with Tyre, especially in NATO. I'm concerned that, although later on, the actions of Turks will be in the back of the NATO cohesion work. I'm not saying it's gonna be, and I can't tell you how, but I'm worried about this. This is unnatural and not in the spirit of the NATO cohesion and the covenant of NATO. The issues of the United Nations are enormous, and Iceland is very active in cooperation with what is being done there. I'm going to state here that the United Nations plays a vital role, yet it is very important that every moment, every year, be taken down and criticized as to how the UN operates, since no one can be above criticism. I'm going to be particularly willing to take out the United Nations Security Council which is today an institution that doesn't work as effective as it is supposed to be. This is an institution designed to prevent conflict, to promote peace, but not to do so. There are the few countries that have a negative influence in the council, using it freely to prevent war or war from occurring. I'd like to be happy to know that this refers to a deal with the UN Women and the HeForShe campaign. It is very important that the Ministry and the Ministry continue to enable men to participate in the equality. The section on environmental and resource issues is also important, as, of course, all sections of this report. I'm going to stop at the soil issues I mentioned earlier. This group has noted the effectiveness of Iceland in combating desertification. The largest desert in Europe was at its time in Iceland. In 1907, it reminds me that the first law is set for agriculture and to defend Iceland's country. We have a lot of experience and brilliant professionals, using probes, who can impart their experience in making land new. Of course, when it comes to earth's heat, we should continue to carry out our knowledge and joy to see that assignments in Ukraine are moving ahead. The news issue on page 19. 22nd This is really important to Iceland. I allow them to come in contact with what I mentioned before, international law and order, international contract, I refer to the invasion of Russia in Ukraine. International law and agreements, such as the United Nations Sea Treaty, provide certain rights and, of course, specific commitments. That's what we need to be on guard. If we do not do so and struggle to criticize others who violate international laws and treaties, we cannot depend on others to respect our agreements. That's very important to keep in mind. Here's a chapter on information sharing. It is very important that the Ministry of State media information about what the Ministry is doing. The Ministry has the form, right or wrong, to be rather closed and not completely aware of what is going on there, but it is a service agency. It serves the Icelanders, the services of individuals and businesses, and keeps Iceland's interests in foreign fields. Such an institution is to relate what it does in a very meaningful way. A respectable president. I'm just hanging out for the foreign service business. I'm happy about what happened. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðrún Helgadóttir earlier. I agree completely with what. Senator. Of course, we lack money in all creations. It's safe to say. But the foreign service needs a great deal of money to protect our interests and take part in the changes that are taking place internationally today, that is, whether in security or in business. That's where I agree with the highest. Minister, it's very important to stress business. If we look at the numbers, the State Department's own operations are only 0.7% of the A-sections. The Abbott, 58%, something like that, goes to the development team of all the funds marked for foreign service. That's a lot of money, and I'm sure it could be more. We can agree on that. But the other part also needs to grow, the one turning toward our interests. Then I stop by page. 29th This is a case of long-term time. Actually, the person here should have carried it out. I'm glad to hear it. Ministers are trying to map the work of the ministry and go to the stitches of how it should be, where to be, and how to provide it. This is extremely important. Maybe it's supposed to be a thing that always rolls and is done regularly. But this has not been done for a long time and is very important. I want the members of the council to back up the highest. A minister is totally up to his job, so he is happy to accept it when the result comes. Then, finally, I'm going to stop by page of it. 32◯33 referring to Britain's resignation from the European Union, Bgreit. In fact, we did okay earlier in reply, we did. Minister, at what? paritaprevir Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir. Britain is our largest business country. We know that. The European Union is big, yes, the inner market is important to us, but the figures show how important Britain is. So you have to put a lot of work into these Baltrexit products and mapping as shown here. We're talking about business interests, people's freedom of movement, education, employment permits, even taxes, tourism. Then we must not forget that we have many common interests with the British. These include the defenses and the issues of the sea. If we look at the map and see the connection, Britain, Iceland, North America, it's obvious that our interests in the North Atlantic are very much united. It is not only the defences but also the resource use that is critical and how we protect the resource and the environment. Of course, all of this is important. We also have other things in common. There are thousands of jobs in Iceland and Britain because we do business together, work together. For example, these jobs are a travel service in Iceland. In Britain, these jobs may be more in fishing areas, since we are exporting enormous amounts of fish. I do not claim that the figures I now make are correct, but I heard at one time that this is between 10 to 15 thousand jobs in Britain because of Icelandic fish. It may well be that there is something else today or just nonsense. Well, there are a lot of jobs. We know that. Here on page 16. 33 is no. 1.3 Purposes and Work Ahead. It says, by permission of the president: ◯Greina influence from British ideological sources from the European Union and map out Iceland's most important interests in trade with Britain as well as with British government, Iceland's partner states in EFTA and the European Union. It is very important that in the evaluation and analysis of British resignations from the European Union and the impact in Iceland will be made out of Iceland's and United Kingdom interests. This phrase may be understood by someone, so the European Union should be asked a little bit of this discussion, with interest, that the European Union should be some kind of consultant when it comes to considering Iceland and Britain's interests. I don't think it's like that. The meaning isn't that. But we have to be careful that only Iceland and Britain's interests are those that will be on the table. That's extremely important. A respectable president. This reminds me that there has to be a light on the table, a respectable president, so you know if there's a man or a woman in the President's chair. There is no way to address the president as Mr. President when it is Mrs. President. You always have to turn around.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u121	Spegil.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u122	Yes, a mirror. V.E.G. Secretary of state is a very, very specific man. I'm celebrating. I'm not impressed with Iceland's success in the European Union. I just don't want to. [[Foreground on:]] Hell, no. We have nothing to do there. However, I'm concerned that if our main business area today is tossed up in some way. The European Union's main problem is pride, I say. It's presumptuous of the British now, because they want to get out of this relationship. It tells us that little Iceland would really get into dance trials if they wanted to leave this relationship that they're never going into. But it's this arrogance and treating the British with contempt instead of sitting down and saying, "Yes, we don't want to lose you, it's nonsense to you, my friends, but, of course, we're trying to make a deal that's good for both parties. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u123	Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, who spoke in many places with great knowledge, may not be surprised because he has been in the highest position. Minister. I agree with most of the articles there. He pointed to things that may not have been much in the discussion, e.g. ... abouttheenforcement. We are doing the same thing with the earth's heat and the waters of the sea, something we know, and we have good experience. We share it with other nations. The equal cases are another group of languages. We also have other lawsuits, where we can do good. Hv. A senator has a positive view of our standard, the mapping of the ministry, the evaluation of how we will organize it in the near future. I want to take this opportunity to agree with his appeal to members of Congress. We don't do anything on our own, like what? A senator mentioned, we called all the former seniors. Minister and it's badly kept secrets that there's been a lot of things and good out of it. M.a. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. I know the first team took a lot of that into consideration. The same is true of the other former Ministers, all of whom have had experience with this, everyone is ready to bring in. I also think it's important and it will be done -- it's been talked to. The Foreign Affairs Committee, as well. The international committees, for this is not a personal matter of foreign service but a matter for all of us. While we deal with a number of things here, the common body of Congress, if taken together, agrees in the vast majority of factors. We're gonna go for a second. A senator often talks about the European languages. In fact, they are all in the same boat. [[The president calls.]] European states in the European Union, United Kingdom, I do not speak of the EFTA. And then, hopefully, they'll have the sense to add strings to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u124	Madam President. I reiterate that she's working at the highest level. A minister started an update on foreign services, where the emphasis should be, whether they are correct today, etc., is extremely important. This service, foreign service, needs to be available. She also needs to be prepared to care for new assignments and to follow up on old assignments and for those who have been busy for a long time, and the Icelanders can be very proud. I'm going to say, as it has been taken for a long time, how efficient the Icelandic foreign service can be and has been despite being as tiny as it really is. V.E.G. Minister mentioned that we often discuss the European issues. That's right, that's the end of a lot of European amateurs. What raises questions, however, is what I want to get the highest opinion. There is a minister who has arrived in France. There are elections ahead, second round, where a new centerer is available, and Le Pen, which we are familiar with from the media. It is clear that both parties call for different ways that the European Union will change if it is to survive. In fact, I think the second candidate wants the European Union killed, if you don't mind me saying so. But Macron, the middle man, has called after the relationship changes. The question is, Is it true that in a state like France, a candidate like this will be able to produce the changes called in the European Union? Or if it is so that it doesn't really matter whether one calls for such things, whether they just get stopped. Is it so that the European Union, i.e. In Brussels, do you listen to the call when you call for a change or is this one of the many shouts you hear from European politicians who cry out in the desert for help? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u125	Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to talk about things that I enjoy talking about. And for all the fun of letting go, it's all about us. As noted, the European Union matters to us. These are our friends. Walking is very important. They know my opinion of Iceland's entrance into the European Union. The success of the European Union's nations is of vital importance. It affects us directly. I believe the European Union's biggest problem is that an arrangement has been developed that is very far away from the people. I don't think it's what it's like. If we as politicians had built up a governance system here in Iceland, many of us complain of our lack of relationship with voters, where we'd beosine every ten years, or just above our heads, we can imagine how little contact there would be, even in this small society. If there are people with the highest authority that cannot be chosen in or out, it affects all things. The European Union is much more than the EU, such as in Europe. A senator came in. We have EFTA, EEA, Schengen, NATO, some countries are in, some of them out. We're just supposed to discuss this, but not the interests of a single phenomenon, which in this case is the EU. I've had a lot of double-sided meetings, and of course, these cases have been discussed. But when you talk to the Ministers of the Congress in particular, I feel that people are aware that things have to change. Whether there is any prerogative to lead these changes is a matter of concern. When the problem grows, there is no benefit. It can lead to bad things. They need to fight for the values we agree on. Those with the value of politicians in the continent must agree on what arrangement is best so that we can keep it honorable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u126	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank you for your excellent report and the foreign background. The last place I had to say was the highest. Foreign Minister, I think 33 years ago in high school. Although we may have drawn a little closer to each other at that time, we still disagree on certain matters. [[Up front.]] One of them is the benefits and weaknesses of the European Union. The report reveals a new view of Icelandic foreign politics that I know of at least N/A It says, by permission of the president: Since the business policy debate is largely out of the European Union requirement, there is a full need to strengthen our work in EFTA and EEA. What the minister's exact words are not good to say, as the government's government contract says, by permission of presidents: The Management Board agree to vote on the matter and to conclude it at the Council at the end of the season at the end of the season. In addition, there is a category of Ministers in cooperation with two categories that directly set the national directive to continue Member States' activities with the EU on the agenda a few months ago. Does this mean that they groups have finally given in response to their request for such a vote? It would be good if they answered them during the discussion, and they have done so to a large extent. I allow me to review the words of the chairman of Bjarts, who in this same discussion a year ago said, by permission of the president: In the end, I have to disagree with the highest degree. Ministers, that it is essential for Iceland to stand outside the economy. The question of involvement in the European Union and application for membership in the European Union approved by the Council is, of course, still in effect. That discussion will continue in the United States... Yes, it's right next to the highest. Ministers to the EU may not be working within the next few days, but as the report says, politics and commerce can change in a very small way, as the examples prove. Therefore, there is good reason to monitor the order of world affairs and never exclude any possibility of what future contact with other countries will be like. It is proper to review to the Minister that through the EEA Convention, we will adopt a greater part of all EU regulations and directives. We have very little to say about their nature, however, and we are unable to adapt them to Icelandic interests. This is ours without enjoying the best that the EU could bring us, the quality of our walking and the low growth, e.g. So I keep going back to that, the euro area is growing near zero while the interest in the Icelandic unsecured mortgage is over 6%. There is a great deal of trouble for homes in the country, especially for those who are unable to cope with their apartment purchases because of their high interest and who are trapped in the poverty trap of the rented. The rent is also marked by overcrowded interest. The video would no doubt increase the stability of our major sectors, which are now faced with an increase in business difficulties because of the Icelandic croissants, the fluctuations that do not provide the end. The irony is so ironic that the article, which is a significant reason for the success, the tourism, opposes the government's plans to raise the cost of the article. Government guardians have overlooked the fact that the action is not least intended to stem the rising gangs of the crown. Admittedly, it is difficult to be ashamed to increase the spell of an article in a blouse, which has saved us most from the financial collapse, but the question is what to do. Don't want to see a situation like that once the pain limit of the export is reached and was hand-made by governments carrying the capital from the public to these companies. Sadly, the 99 - year - old story of her fall is more than 99% since her birth. Granted, it has saved the economy during difficult times, but the currency's roller coaster's ride has made Iceland's government some kind of response equipment, making decisions to protect itself from the interests of the individual articles that suffer. Unfortunately, the public is more often than not the prop. He usually feels like he's reacting. It has been prominent in all discussions of how to communicate with the outside world how black/white is spoken in chapters. It is almost possible to remember what the debate was like here at the Assembly Hall at the 25th anniversary of the EEA Convention. They painted a pretty dark picture of our participation in that cooperation. I'm gonna have a little bit of a review. S. Brjánsson of the council yesterday, with the permission of the President: ▪ Words were dropped, even to the loss of independence. Who can think of today? Do anyone know that Norway is not a sovereign state or EU countries, Denmark, Sweden and Germany? Whatever the case, the EEA has brought prosperity to the nation. Economic, professional, social and cultural. A valuable link is in the fields of education, and Icelanders have enjoyed important scientific and educational skills. It has ended correctly in the report that the contract has worked well for the EFTA countries involved in it, as well as for the EU. These are men, I think, in general. Similarly, members of the United States considered general solidarity to be the need for a change in the Constitution to support this important agreement by agreeing with the Council on a new international cooperation arrangement. However, the last government party was restored on final meters to the work of the Constitution committee at the last council. That was bad, for we need to trust our most important international agreements. But while the EEA Convention is essential to our survival, we also need to be alert to new circumstances. The European Union's impact on agreements with non-participants in the European Union is uncertain. We know the trouble that had the introduction to the EEA deal for a small nation. They largely involved our having little human resources and are less equipped to influence the laws taken here on the basis of it. The comparison with Norway, also a small country, is striking. They have more manpower, natural, and can try to influence much earlier laws. I agree with what. The head of the State Department, who said in the past winter that the EEA Convention could hardly support Iceland's interest in the European Union. We need to think about it. Not to be overlooked is the fact that within the EU area, we would have made ourselves part of the best commercial agreements worldwide, but with the present system, we are forced to distribute much more than that. The report points out fine. There are a number of very necessary projects and projects that Iceland is working on. As an example, the European Union and the United States were working on a business agreement, although, unfortunately, the elected new presidents closed that door for now, I understand. Finally, there are countless reasons for involvement in the European Union and close cooperation with other countries. These include a common view of human rights, democracy, environment, peace, refugee problems, development aid, to name just a few. We cannot continue to be afraid of allowing the nation to rule in Europe. This is simply the best and best way to lead the question of negotiations with the European Union. We cannot assign large political statements that we are largely free from Member States within a European report of this nature. We are to discuss matters openly. If the nation is not to be assigned to European affairs then at least The council is allowed to discuss this. It is hollow to say that part of the foreign policy is protecting democratic society at the same time that political issues of this nature do not get the progress that all political groups have ever promised, i.e. National pay. We politicians simply have to keep our words better if in some way we have a chance to regain confidence in the community. We need increased contact with the European Union, whether or not we are inside it. We need to make better use of the goods we have to make a success of the EEA contract. In fact, that's where the biggest part of our export goes. The same can be said of Britain, who is on his way out of the relationship. During the council, we need to pay close attention to our relationship with the British. The report presents very good goals, but it lacks a clearer view. I urge a minister to report to the council as much as now, perhaps, how he intends to defend the commercial interests of Iceland, which Baltrext undeniably threatens. Only from the European Union. The report has a lot of good points, including the following: the situation and goals of Iceland in the international community. Here we have noted fine goals when it comes to promoting our foreign affairs. Similarly, important targets are set out for security and protection on resource and environment. We need to be active participants in the field of the Atlantic Union and in the affairs of the north. We continue to work well for the induction and molding of national security policy, but it is a pleasure to tell of its beginning in the history of the United States and the VG and the good that it is still being promoted. Then the battle against global warming and the protection of the sea must be strongly stressed. There's gonna be a good example for Iceland, and we have to take our own real steps at home to reduce emissions. They must then follow up on international international agreements. Similar things can be said about the development program. It presents very beautiful goals, but it is proper to emphasize that the same is true of the case, where the minister of foreign law needs to inform the council properly and clearly on the results and equal analyses of the development aid and its development process. This was disputed when a development team research agency was recently laid down, but it had received some good judgments for its work and was greatly appreciated that the quality of developing cooperation does not worsen during the changes. What is most remarkable about the subject of development is what it does not contain. The government's financial program is required to see where the heart lies. Then it turns out the government and the highest. Ministers have no plans for Iceland to meet the UN target of caring for the richest and most blessed countries in which we are blessed to provide 0.7% of the national incomes in developing countries. We can't even reach the 0.3% goal, and there are no better plans to do so. That's what I think down below all the caves. Already well-being, we spend the same percentages in development support as in the midst of the crisis. There's a council proposal from 2013 that was agreed on with all paid votes but one, I think, on a huge increase in proposals to the jury, but it doesn't happen at all. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How does he justify the ignominious amount of money for our colleagues abroad when he cannot even promise a relief and correction here with us in the coming years? If we were to receive much more refugees, all of this would look much better. Neither is it. Madam President. If we want others to build up a community at Western baselines on democracy, human rights, justice and free economy, we want others to respect and follow international agreements, which are fundamental reasons for success in fighting climate change, refugees' problems, and the achieving of the world's aims of the United Nations, we must set the example in a far better way than we do. That criticism is not just to the present government but to the past few years. Together, we need to expand our donations for development. We need to get more refugees. We need to strengthen our relationship with the British, but also with the European Union, regardless of what that relationship will be in the future. Our primary objective is to let the nation rule in that way on macropolitic foreign affairs. It shall determine whether Member States shall complete their member business with the European Union. They will not be completed with declarations, as can be found in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u127	A respectable president. It's true that me and what. A senator has not been able to handle these matters since the University of College of Akureyri a few years ago. I'm just going to make a talk about what he said about the European Union. I don't think there's anything else to say but that we are largely free of the requirement to enter the European Union when no group, at least not officially, has a policy file to enter as it goes elsewhere. Maybe it's a misunderstanding. Maybe it's the Conspiracy that wants to enter. But there is a number of wrong points out in the speech of the chairman of the United States. We do not take more EU types into the EEA agreement. This is about 11% from 1994. We have access, as I've crossed over, at an initial level if we use it and that's what we've been planning on doing. Why does it keep you small? A senator that has 0% interest in the euro, not in the whole area, but in Europe? Do you think that's good? Do you think that's because it's such a great economic situation that they decide to have zero percent? Wants to play. A senator receives the economic situation that we watch, where the interest is zero percent? That's what I'm talking about. A senator asking for it? I got it. I got it. A senator to answer that question. Speaking of how if we were in the EU, we'd get the best business deals: I'll tell you what to do. A senator comparing Iceland's treaties through EFTA and two-sided contracts. For example, we were the first Western states to have a business agreement with China. Sadly, for the United States, that case was long dead before Trump arrived. In fact, the United States, they introduced it to us at EFTA, wanted to share it with other nations like Iceland and EFTA. The European Union was much more reversible on this issue. For Bbifit and development support. I've come every time I've been asked to do it for the Foreign Affairs Committee, and will continue to do so, to discuss that matter. I'd love to. On the other hand, it's not on me. But I want to pray. Senator to stop speaking the EEA contract down. Right away. A senator says the EEA contract is hardly enough for Iceland anymore. He's talking it down. Politicians like fuck. A senator has put Norway in a position that is now a large part of the Norwegians who want to leave the good deal because they are talking him down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u128	Madam President. I'm hoping that the words of the chairman of the United States, who has three members of this term, did not cause the Norwegian people to abandon the EEA deal. [[Up front.]] I talked about that deal earlier that it is an enormously important asset to us, for the predecessors of the United States fought for its introduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u129	Some.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u130	Some. I'm not talking about all classes being in favor of joining the European Union. Most categories have put it this way - those who have been interested in it - that they want to make contracts and walk to see what the outcome would be. Since then, many things have happened. We are told to fulfill the promises made concerning national pay. What if they are not to be applied in some way? The independent party has explained that a certain impossible option is in order to arrive at a decision made by such national regulations. I understand that such situations might be difficult. On the other hand, submission to the nation's will is not shameful. The Independence Party has promised this, the highest. The minister of state cannot deny it. In terms of growth in the European Union and the conditions in it: There, Smurfette, which is more fortunate than ever. There's economic growth there now. This does not change the fact that Iceland's interest levels, whether successful in the European Union or ill, have been out of control in recent years and decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u131	A respectable president. We need to start taking the bigger picture. I have long received a review of money policy, and I'm glad we're doing it. But if we're talking about being in the European Union, the whole package has to be taken. I completely refuse that it is necessary for a person to have a business discussion to find out what is available. That doesn't make any sense. Anyone who wants to know what it means to be in the European Union. Uffe Ellemann-Ellemann-Jensen just said that the other day, very clear, one of a lot of them. He's very hard on the EU. Anyone who wants to know what that means. If they believe it's better for Iceland, they should fight for it. I'm willing to take that discussion anywhere and anytime. There's no problem. I've always been ready for it. We're supposed to talk about all these things. In case of a moment. Councilmen believe in any cause, they are to fight for it only. Of course. Trying to explain to foreigners that we've applied for involvement in the European Union to find out what is available is interesting experience, I can tell you that. The important thing is this, and I insist. A senator in it: The EU contract is a good deal for us. We are in a very great deal of cooperation with the European nations, which are our friends nations, alliances. Let's not talk the EEA deal down. If we are saying that he is not good enough for us, we need to give evidence of that. On the contrary, I have not seen any perplexing evidence of that. I say once again, these are our friends people. I wish them all the best, hope that men will work out their own business. I hope that men have reason to do so, for the British and European nations have a similar interest in working out those matters when one nation decides to cross this customs alliance. That's in our best interests, that's in the best interests of all. We should agree on this. [[The president calls.]] For God's sake, don't talk down the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u132	Madam President. I completely refuse that I have been speaking down some agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u133	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u134	No. These things can simply be good and new and beautiful even if you want to see if you can move forward. [[Up front.]] It is an amazing simplicity of the world scene. Foreign minister when he says, "When you talk to a foreigner." Is a foreigner a phenomenon, something that always feels the same way? [[Up front.]] No, talk them, for God's sake, as if the world is only colorful and varied. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u135	The president would like to direct them to members of Congress to use the proper form of complaint.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u136	V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs, taken from or not, removed from a possible partnership or not: The Independence Party owes us the commitment he made on national terms. Or was it simply said to get into the line at the moment and escape the political clip he was in? Is the Independence Party really not a bigger and more confident category than that they can't just say what they mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u137	You're four years late.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u138	V.E.G. President. I was going to commend myself. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for both courage and determination in his battle for Iceland's involvement in the European Union. I find it admirable that a representative of the United States is coming here and speaking simply as if nothing has happened since its foreign minister was trying to get Iceland into the European Union during the period of 2009 to 22013. In a way, it is admirable to stick to that course, although circumstances may otherwise be adverse. I wondered, in view of the nature of the night. A senator spent most of his speech period in the European Union, whether he can inform us of how he appreciates the situation, the possibility that Iceland will become a member of the European Union over the next few years. Counts 'em out. A senator that political conditions in the country and in the European Union give reason to believe that this organization's policy will succeed in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u139	Madam President. This is not exactly where I preached that we were having a business discussion. However, I called out to see if it was not right to let the people decide and then knock them off the table for a few years or decades if they wanted to look at it. I think there's a lot of things we can't go in there for the next few years. However, the report points out that the program has been dismissed, despite the fact that there are two political groups who had the goal of campaigning with the nation. I don't think that's fair enough. Even if small, foreign ministers do not respect the terms expressed in the government covenant that state what will happen if the matter is presented at the council. That's what I was talking about. I was not offering any struggle for us to do anything or anything. We've talked about all the groups, so did the Independence Party, that the nation should decide. I was just wishing that men would keep it. There were all the demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u140	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry if I've been doing what I'm doing. paritaprevir The view that Einarsson wants us to go into the European Union is lit up by him. So the speech sounded to me, and I may have given more than his words. However, I wanted to say that if politicians and political parties believe that there is a basis for conversation, negotiation, or saying it, it must be based on some view of the outcome. In general, unless you plan to reach a positive conclusion, you will not discuss with any other person, whether the European Union or a business or national relations. They sit at a contract table to negotiate, in order to reach their conclusions, not just to grab on and look in the package. They don't. There must be some way to determine the outcome, a view of whether they want to reach a positive conclusion, whether the deal will work out or not. It was the problem in the season 2009-2013 that the national groups that were then involved in the European Union's member case were in their heart, and basically they did not agree on whether or not they wanted to reach the decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u141	Madam President. I can honestly say for my part: Yes, I want us to start again and continue contact details with the European Union. But I was covering a report at the highest level. A minister of the State, where he was beating it out of the table and saying that it was a game, despite the will of those who are with him in the administrative business. I ask: If it's irresponsible to want to start such agreements just to look in the package, that doesn't apply to us in the Union; we were convinced, and we were going to make a good deal so that we could vote and even enter. What, then, about the Independence Party that would allow the nation to decide whether or not we would check the package? Was he going to let the people decide to look in the package? Yet, the Independence Party was convinced that we should not. So it was just a political trip to get over the only obstacle on the way back to power. That should not surprise you. I was in this discussion asking for it, so for the 14th time I believe all political parties make the promises made by the nation that they will be allowed to decide if we will again agree with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A good entrance to Einarsson's Logi. I have to admit that I have not been able to dig in sufficiently all the issues presented in the report, but I would like to discuss some of the people close to us in a short future, including the report. about - God, I think I have to whisper -- EU-mask. A report by the secretary of state and international affairs shows that a business policy discussion is largely free from the demand for involvement in the European Union and that there is a full need to strengthen our work in EFTA and EEA. In a bright future, we cannot say that our position in EFTA and EES is being strengthened just while we are not in an active application procedure, but perhaps not entirely on the basis of what the minister describes here. There we must disagree with him. We stress that countries will have a good deal with the EU, which the nation can then after an informed discussion and a well - thought - out vote in a national law, which says place this in the hands of the people. In fact, we are aware that today's timing is not the right thing to do as a result of developing in the continent, especially because of the British decision to travel out of the European Union. On the other hand, we believe in a bright future that by opening the currency market service at the European Parliament's Bank, it will increase stability right here in the country, which is the only rational way to avoid the surprising price insurance system that comes with the Icelandic kroner with the equivalent cost to the Icelandic common population. Actually, we know it's not a magic solution. They just don't exist. However, we believe that introductions in the EU and currency markets at the European Council Bank are the most successful means towards economic stability in this country. In our opinion, we have not seen a better solution that could possibly do the same. Let us not forget, too, that in the Treaty, we say that the government agreed to vote on a possible matter of national holding on the terms of decision-making with the EU and to bring it to its end at the end of the term. There is no perhaps/or unidentified opinion of any individual minister. It's mediating. About Bgreit, a little lighter. Admittedly, the results of the U.S. National Protocol were hit for the European Union. The whole world looks closely at evolution, most of us worrying about what will come there. However, it was not quite as violent as EU opposers wish many people to mean. Overall, the result was somewhat low, 52% wanted out, and 48% wanted to stay inside. Wasn't that about 60% of a vote? So these numbers are still lower, a little like Trump's sneaking into the Presidential chair in the United States. What seemed to have made the difference was a masked nationalism in Polish, British conservatives, and their political promises, who fought for an outing to show up so as never to be true. However, Scots and Northern Ireland were not fooled and chose decisively with continued involvement. The extent to which Scots and Irish people are happy in the EU should send us a clear message at home, which is the countries outside of the Norwegian states that we have most in common. I wanted to talk only about developing cooperation. It has been stated here that almost nothing is going on in developing cooperation. Isn't that quite right, as far as I'm concerned? I agree we're supposed to do more than we have to evaluate every time how much you really can do. For example, the government of the left green and Controversy in the years following collapse did not actually make a decision for development cooperation in its own time. No one needs to wonder about the wishes of the future, rather than the will of the left greens and controversies of his day. We would like to do better, but we also understand the reasons for setting priorities. Nor should it be minimized that despite everything, there is a percentage increase due to the increase in national production, the number of dollars leaving the country. On page 2016, I take out information about contributions for development work. 55 and 56 of this report, which is well defined. A well - defined global development programme is also requested on page 5. Five-seven-sixty-sixty-niner. I myself sit on a development team and, while I'm right about accessing the important issues we're participating in on a global level, I'm going to take advantage of the fact that we're continuing to improve in developing cooperation as we can. Also, let's not forget that the EU, so I go back to the light case we've discussed here, was originally established as a peace alliance. Peace has remained in the continent because of the cooperation and unity that has remained because of the common fundamental factors in the relationship. As a result, economic and social unity has formed strong unity and has prevented international turmoil. Then I would like to discuss on those grounds a little more about human rights and our role in setting an example in Iceland. A bright future also wants Icelanders to contribute to world peace not only by sharing in developing cooperation but by means of relief efforts and various forms of peace. As for human rights in this area, I just want to talk about our responsibility for political matters. I'd like to quote the Declaration of Independence Party, Action and Future, by permission of the President: ▪ Human rights, equal opportunities, variety, freedom, and responsibility as well as respect for differing outlooks form a solid foundation. I believe it has as much value in this country as it does in a foreign country. If I may, with the permission of the president, please refer to the report under discussion. On page 18. 17 says: ▪ Iceland encourages countries to fulfill their international commitments to human rights, especially with increasing participation and recommendations in the routine of universal rights in the realm of the UNH (UPR). Over the past year, Iceland directed proposals to a number of countries and proclaimed a statement about the human rights situation in many parts of the world. That's what I want us to keep on doing. According to this, I'd like to discuss only a news story that is now fighting us for a terrible catastrophe in Chechnya, where authorities are deprived of their freedoms because of suspicions of homosexuality, violence, and even murder. An enormous structure has been in the country, and it can even be said that it rose from a great state of low war under Ramzan Kadyrov. Kadyrov has been supported by Russia and publicly spoke for his love of Russia and respect for Vladimir Pútín. As we look at an official political relationship between these men, Russia ignores human rights violations against gay people in Chechnya. We know the direction of Russia in queer affairs, and it's certainly not reassuring that they are saying a lot of things to support human rights and equality, which we live in the West, especially in Iceland where we care about equality. The denial of the Chechian State is a major concern. Alver Karman, spokesman for Ramzan Kadyrov, published a statement on the situation, claiming to be false and outright lies. His argument was that such harshness could not be used, since queer people did not exist in Chechnya, there was no problem. If they did, their relatives would send them to places where they would not return. It is particularly important that Russia's governments push the question of an independent investigation. It could be an example before other parts of Russia begin to do the same. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of the foreign government will see what his position on the matter is and whether he intends to put pressure on Russia when the opportunity arises to discuss the matter. Then I'd like to add that at an open press conference two days ago, the German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Vladimir Pútín, encouraged a personal study, as I have mentioned, the situation and reports coming to us about torture and persecution against queer people in Chechnya. She did it to ensure safety of LGBT people in this area. Is it not an example that we trust to follow? I would like to read from the next report that we have taken our stand on it. I expect the highest. The minister of state agrees with my point of view and that in the next report to the Council, we will see additional paragraphs on human rights and measures that we have taken at the international level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u143	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when he is concerned about human rights and especially the position of homosexuals in Chechnya. True, I do not know if it is reasonable to argue that there are not enough sentences in this report. I am now the first secretary of state to address the United Nations Human Rights Council. I even took it there. ... LGBT people issue. I have also taken the matter up to meetings with the Russian Foreign Minister. I have recorded it in the Council of Europe now after these issues came up and called attention to them in other ways. We will do whatever we can to draw attention to this. The news from there is naturally terrifying. It's kind of hard to put into words. They're just that kind of stuff and a reminder of a terrible time. Unfortunately, there are up to 75 countries in the world where homosexuality is defined as illegal behavior. There's a lot of work to do. Thank you. A senator for bringing it to the attention. I'm totally worth it. A senator wants to walk in the European Union, but clearly. A senator also said that my timing was not good and referred to my words when I said that we were largely free of that requirement. I don't think that very few people are just as strong in wanting to walk in the European Union as ever. Senator. When it says time isn't good, I think that's what it says. Then I feel that it's not fair how it is. A senator lays it up in the policy of the government of Britain. It is very clear when it comes to business and opening of Britain. You can have any opinion about whether the British are going to walk out or be inside, that is their case. They have to decide. On the other hand, there is a direct policy for the current British government. Then, of course, there's an election ahead of us. [[The president calls.]] Let's see what comes out of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u144	Thank you very much. Minister for the contribution he has already contributed to the issues of queer people and human rights. I urge you to go on forever. I am so glad that we will sit together in a more administrative section and share this view. I will continue to encourage you, and we will do good work there. Regarding the EU: I hope my words do not work with regard to coldness. That we will continue to examine the EU and our possibilities. It should always be our goal in Iceland to achieve the best for each country. Over a period of time, it would have been very good for us to join the EU. I think that time might come back. I want us to be open to that fact and to say in our government contract. We can disagree. This may be the most important thing, for at times when a person disagrees and brings up a matter, it becomes even better at the end. As far as Britain's policy is concerned, I'm just gonna be honest: I'll just trust those who know more about it than I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u145	I couldn't agree more. No matter what, a senator shows respect for her opinions. When it comes to the EU, I respect its views perfectly. I think we'll agree that we should do even better when it comes to protecting our interests in the EEA. We should continue to benefit from the benefits of EFTA. I think there's a good harmony there with all members of Congress, and also a reason. A senator here spoke. One of the biggest cases in history. A senator referred to and made the subject of earlier talk that I liked very well was the situation in Chechnya. There are other areas of distress when it comes to human rights, even though it is much bigger - at least we haven't heard of such things for a very long time. Of course, we Icelanders are few people; we will not change these things in general. We have a voice, however, and sometimes we have a story to tell. It's not too long ago that a homosexual attitude was completely different here, although we've never done things like this, and unfortunately it seems we're on the move. It changed very fast. I think we can claim that society got so much better after that. Therefore, we can tell them international history and point them to a wide range of nations, for although they are not in the 75 countries where it is banned - this is certainly not forbidden in Russia, and when I have talked to Russian rulers, I have not heard any such views as they have been seen in Chechnya, a long distance away. Yet, the views there are now as they were decades ago in Iceland, and perhaps worse. [[The president calls.]] We should draw attention to the fact that societies become only better when these attitudes change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u146	Thank you very much. Minister in the back, this is just a conversation. But for Russia: as I mentioned, this official love relationship, it is very important that we put pressure on an investigation. I think, I just talk openly here, that we are in very great danger as far as denying the things that are going on there. It's just the world, we, and our example that will push the trend there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Its Nichole Leigh Mosty business. I thank her very much for calling attention to the rights of the LGBT people who are clearly missing here in a foreign and international report. I join her in the encouragement to set them up higher at the highest level. Secretary of state. I'd like to ask you what. Senator Birts, with the following declaration on his homepage on the European Union, by permission of the President: A good deal with the EU, which the nation can make after an informed discussion is adopted in a national law. The same is true in a government covenant that will bring about a bright future: The Management Board agrees to vote for the matter and to result in its completion at the General Assembly. Counts 'em out. A member of the government covenant is in line with what is stated on page 6. 6 in the U.S. report. Foreign Minister: Since the business policy debate is largely out of the European Union requirement, there is a full need to strengthen our work in EFTA and EEA. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with this statement stated on page 18. 6 in the U.S. report. Secretary of state?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u148	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjörn's daughter for signing up with me in Chechnya. We are to be heard and supported by this struggle and aware that it affects queer people here and around the world. What we can do here is raise our voices and set a fine example of supporting people in the world. We also support the struggles that have not yet been completed here at home. For our policy in a bright future, and what we managed to achieve with our government partners, it was a great compromise. That was the best we could do. We'll try harder, and we'll do our part. In the case of matters, however, there are times when people disagree, but we try to find a way in which this compromise can continue. At least that's how I look at it. For a question about what is stated in the report on page 18. 6: No, I totally agree with that, I don't agree with that. We can do even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for clear and clear answers. Her attitude was made clear. I also wanted to add my question to the question. A senator on the development community. She's on a development team. She expressed her opinion before making a contribution to the development of a team too low but perhaps sufficiently acceptable under the present circumstances. Today, economic conditions are the best we've lived with since the collapse of the economy. So it is my opinion that such matters could be done much better. I wonder what. A senator will take advantage of the development committee to allow knees to follow an abdominal bed, and this will be increased to the highest level of plan. Secretary of state. I'd also like to hear her say something when such a high ratio of developing cooperation is being taken into the affairs of the trustees and refugees of Iceland. I am deeply involved in the increased financial support of the seminary. But I'm sorry that this is the way the development team works. I don't think we should give any more discounts. I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u150	Madam President. I mentioned in my speech that I wanted us to do better. But it's very difficult to compare these lawsuits. I'm on the welfare board. My heart is beating a lot of things that are going on there, and I know we need to improve into the educational and welfare system. Oh, my God, I've said it here before, and I've said it again, "If we just had a gold coffin, then the world would be better through our development teaming up and here at home." Yeah, I'll put it on committees. But as the situation is, I'll be back tomorrow to the third meeting I've been in, and I'm in the middle of my case, learning. This is much bigger than we imagined it to be so many cooperation projects. What we give up is not necessarily financial but in the form of knowledge that we share. I haven't quite realized all that, but I think we need to look well at everything we can do, what we can say, and just do it. That's what I'll do, but I won't promise here and now exactly how; I'll dig deeper into things and work on them better. For refugees, it is tragic to see this mixed up. But there is one thing that we need to think about in the affairs of inmates and refugees: There are many who come to us, and I have discussed this view with those who come, and they often want to return to their homeland. Although this isn't exactly a development team, there are not all who want to live on here for protection. Everything we can do for them here while they're here will make up for something else. [[The president calls.]] If we can train someone to be a teacher here and he can go home and work as such, it's part of developing cooperation, even though this one doesn't necessarily see a place in reports. It is my belief that most people's aim is to return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u151	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate my gratitude to the Minister for this fine report, and thank you very much. Councilmen for the discussion that's been here. She's been rich and good, on chapters a little loud, and passed through the open. All I want to do is pick up the thread that was removed from human rights and that emphasized at the highest level. Secretary of state is holding up on behalf of the Icelandic nation. It says on page 18. 8 in the entrance: A human right is one of the basics of foreign policy and is a government advocate of human rights on the scene of the United Nations...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u152	The president would like to remind members of the council to vomit the president's permission before being read directly from the printed page.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u153	Excuse me, Mr. President. With President's permission, may I continue my reading? I'm sorry for this. It is considered that these are special emphasis in the foreign service and every opportunity has been used to promote equality between sexes, gays'rights, and child rights. For my part, I support that emphasis, and I think that it will take full note of all the strong statements presented in talks and objections ahead of our emphasis in foreign service. That's very clear. I wanted to welcome especially the revision that is taking place today and to emphasize the objective of foreign affairs. The report says that this revision took place regularly but in fact, in 1998. I don't know if I think it's anything particularly regular when it happens again in 2017, but I think it's really time. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The foreign press committee has been given a presentation on that job. I look forward to watching what comes out of it. As the report shows, and it may be clear to everyone that the foreign service of Iceland is relatively small, ending in this small nation, and very important to me that the policy is clear, priority, and emphasis on what we are going to stress. I'm just gonna come in to the first chapter of Civil Service. The report argues that this service has become more extensive, while Iceland is on the move and more Icelanders live abroad. Then I'm going to reiterate my opinion that the cost of this fine service is not necessarily meant and that I want to get the top of it. Ministers continue to be very practical in business. This is where we should try to render the best service at the least cost. Then I think it's important that we don't watch head counts, if I may say so, with all due respect for our good agents in the embassy, but primarily that the embassy can work together that this, information technology is new and there's a process and a procedure to achieve the most practical aspect of the service. I wish for that, where I know I'm at the highest. A minister has frequently maintained a discussion of the economic benefits of public management, that he will ensure that, although he is a member of the Ministry, he will continue to make sure of it. I'm also here to celebrate the fact that the northern affairs are on the agenda. By permission of the president, it is written here: Almost all aspects of Icelandic society and are priorities in Icelandic foreign policy. I'm so happy. I agree with the highest. Minister of that subject. I answered him earlier, where we talked only about the Western Council and the importance of our cooperation with our good neighbors. In this regard, I would like to kill down in the climate section. With President's permission, here's a: ▪ Global warming is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. Thus, the response to climate change is one of the main factors involved in international language. Special attention is given to the impact of climate change on the oceans and on the environment and on the survival of the north. This is a good and very important thing. All our vision lives a little in this, the ocean around us. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that now the European Union is in preparation for the next protocol that will be replaced by Horizon 2020. I think it's very important that we make sure to convey our views that there will be one of the factors in the marine issues and the risks of the acidification of the sea. I'm going to keep encouraging the Minister in that. In fact, I know that case is also below the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture, and they were confident that they would work together on this. Then I'd like to get to the development team next. I'm on page 18. 28 In the report, where there is a fine picture of how foreign service funds are divided. There, development teamwork is the major factor, 35%, and 12% international institutions. I'm glad you're here. It's very normal for me to think that developing cooperation is the main factor of the Ministry's expenses. We've contributed quite a bit to development. This has been increasing in recent years. However, I want the minister to continue to make it clear that our objective in this matter is clear. I really hope we can get them sometime in the next few years. I trust a minister is very looking to it. Then I would like to review our business interests and an interesting table on page 6. In fact, 35 it says that the Netherlands is a huge business country, which I think is not necessarily the case but, above all, the shipship. I am aware that a minister has brought up the subject of wanting to get more information and to analyze where these products are going. It is important that we know who our main business state is. It'd be interesting if it was the highest. A minister might follow his talk a little bit about which ways we can use to do this, for I take my heart to see that it is important to do so. It is interesting to consider this table, especially in view of the picture on the next page, page 30. Thirty-seven. Rather than just looking at where our business interests are today, should we look forward and look to the future, where our opportunities and business interests will be in the future? It clearly shows that the picture is changing considerably by the enlargement in China and India. It would also be interesting if the highest. A minister could review only how we can secure our future interests in those areas. Finally, I wanted to introduce some subjects that were very interesting to me, and I discussed information technology and public computer, and that's online security. I quickly saw little mention of them in the report. But I may have missed that. I realize that the group of paintings, such as this, are under the management, transport and communications ministers but I believe that this category is important that there is a very strong agreement to be between schemes when it comes to these matters. Then I'm not only talking about electronic administrations in general but especially about the role of Internet security. There I would expect, as in so many other countries, to be in good stead and to be in good cooperation with other countries. A man wondered about working with the North and NATO, who I know brought it up, and he's no doubt working on it. But I fear that maybe we are weak in that area and need to give a little more attention and give it something more important. To that end, I thank you very much for a good report, and a good and helpful discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u154	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for a very detailed report and background on the case. Clearly, there is a turning point in Icelandic foreign policy because of British exits from the European Union. Britain is our largest business nation and will have a significant impact on us as a result of what takes place in Europe. As the United States of Congress knows, there was a period of 50th. The Lisbon Treaty is active at the end of March. Thus Britain's exits from the European Union are officially begun. The British have two years to complete their curfew contract. Leaders and officials of the European Union and Britain need to negotiate business with other nations, including the member countries of the EEA Convention. When the curfew contracts go into effect, Britain will no longer be party to EU contracts, such as to form the EEA contracts. It is important to remember that business agreements between Iceland and Britain will still be in effect during this work. Governments need to work systematically to ensure that good contracts are achieved for Iceland in all areas of cooperation established by Iceland and the British. To me, Iceland faces three stage movies. First, there will be a one - side agreement with Britain, which will reach all the stings involved. Second, there will be a dual agreement made between the EFTA and the British. And third, the EEA will enter an outing contract made by the European Union for Britain. How important it is that we realize that all these forms have their pros and cons! However, we need to work at all of them at the same time because it is not quite clear whether the European Union and the British will be able to make an outing for the two-year period. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State to the report says that there may still be additional market access for Icelandic exports to Britain. What has the highest. The minister of foreign affairs stays in mind? I'd like to take a closer look at the situation in Europe for Bgreit. The reason the British left the alliance is because they simply fail in my opinion of political responsibility and policy in the European Union. As a result, Europe's debt crisis was very well revealed, and Greece is one of the finest examples of this. It is also very interesting to hear a discussion of the future of the European Union with French president Macron. He speaks in my opinion as if very many of the candidates have made the last few days when he says, "This alliance must be reformed. " This is so that the European Union has not considered the so important political responsibility. When I heard what I heard, I was amazed. The head of the State Department will discuss the situation in the European Union. It was as if the Chairman had completely overlooked the recent developments. It is extremely important that those who speak for Iceland on a global scale have a realistic estimate of the European Union's position. A respectable president. Next thing I'd like to do is get involved in northern affairs that are getting more and more important in the foreign affairs of the nation. Iceland has an important special position as a North Pole. Iceland is the only state in which all its citizens live in the north. Much of our territory is in the North, including the longest of our fishing grounds. Iceland's interests are to use this opportunity in a responsible and sustainable way as well as to be able to respond quickly if danger exists. Increased shipping and other activities may be associated with environmental, biological, and biological risks. The relative ecosystems of the north are to be enjoyed by the doubt. An important step towards the implementation of the Paris Convention on Climate and the national security policy adopted by Iceland last year was this as one of the priorities for the safety and environmental interests of the north. I believe that the importance of northern issues will continue to grow, especially as a result of the challenges brought on by climate change in the North Sea. Iceland has to be a very active member of North American affairs, and I welcome the emphasis presented in a report of the highest level. Secretary of state. State secretary reports that the safety of Iceland and its defenses are ensured by active cooperation with other countries. Iceland's involvement in the work of the Atlantic Community and the ASE and its defense agreements with the United States are principal in Iceland's policy of security and protection. The World Council decision on national security is a broad spectrum of policy on this important issue. As far as I'm concerned, this matter-of-the-art policy in the Ministry needs to be clarified further. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of State, whether or not to install a special office within the Ministry on Security and Defense. I believe it is wise myself because, in the past government, a resolution on national security policy was adopted and followed by a National Security Council. I believe the box around this Ministry case party could be clearer. Western cooperation is important in Iceland, and I rejoice in the increased communication that has taken place during the recent years. The Hoyvík Convention is important as well as its review. If, in my opinion, it is very important to adapt the limitations that the Enty have shown, and I have full faith that the work that has been started within the Ministry of State will lead to that. But I have to say, I think we should further emphasize cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. Our interests certainly work together in so many areas, especially because the importance of the north is growing. The report considers Nigeria, and the export of the European Union has been considerable throughout the years. In that country, the situation of the economy and the actions of the government have a negative impact on the trade of the countries. I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister on progress in Nigeria, i.e. whether they walked after starting a formal field of study, as was the case. As the United Nations has noted, the Icelandic government's aim for industrialized nations to provide at least 0.7% of the budget of national incomes for developing cooperation. Developing cooperation was highest in 2008, which was about 0.36%, which was cut down significantly and went to the lowest of 0.2% in 2011. Reports report at the highest level. The minister of the minister of state to contribute to development as a share of the gross income in 2016 was 0.29%. However, the Kingdom plan aims to set the proportion to 0.25% in 2017. There's a certain discrepancy, and I'd be grateful to the highest degree. Minister of State if he could only discuss why this mistake is and what his opinion is about how to introduce these numbers, because I know that this sometimes causes some confusion in the discussion. I emphasize that the government's priorities must ensure a favorable economic agreement with Britain and continue the work proposed in the past government. In Europe, major changes are ahead because of EU discharges in Britain, and it has rarely been more important to draw closer to partners in the EEA, EFTA and the EU. Likewise, I stress the importance of northern lands. There are significant changes ahead in these regions due to climate change and there are also security and protection issues to be considered in this field. There has been an increase in transport in this region, and it is of enormous importance that development in these areas will be beneficial. I first mentioned that Icelandic foreign policy was at a turning point because of the development that is taking place in Europe. I believe that in this case there is a chance to form and to further establish alliances with countries that have similar approach to Iceland in Europe's affairs, i.e. The countries that want international freedom and international cooperation without being part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a former chief. Minister. This was not the case with those who listened to him. A senator, who knows these matters well, spoke here with great knowledge and careful consideration of the seminary. Most of it as a dog. A senator said I agree. True, I have no idea if Macron is a progressive man. But all I have to do is check it out at the Ministry. I haven't seen it in any of the files yet. But what do you know? I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for her contributions when it comes to policies and standards. Hv. A senator asked about security and defense offices. That is one of the main points being considered. As for the development process, we will settle this exactly as all other nations do. It is difficult, however, to estimate what turns toward the refugees. It is clear, though, that there will be a much higher amount of money. When it comes to public finances and longer schedules, we are moving forward a little. I'd be surprised if there weren't a lot of money there. I agree with what. A senator when it comes to his status and how he or she will make it up about Bgreit. Hv. A senator turned to improved market access. The EEA contract is very good, but there are certain sea product customs. I'm going to follow my memory, a respectable president, men only take the will for the job; I remind you that these are herrings, mackerel, certain kinds of salmon, and if it wasn't also shrimp. There we pay a few tolls. I think I've answered it for a while. A senator pointed to me, but if not, I'll try to correct it in my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u156	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Foreign Affairs, good answers. I'd like to go on and discuss a little more topics related to Bgret and ask the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs in Norway's position. What's the situation with the Norwegians these days? In my day as a foreign minister, I sometimes found it a little difficult to read exactly which direction they were heading. The highest. Secretary of State informed whether they are interested in continuing on this journey in the EFTA cohesion, or they feel that they are likely to be trying to achieve a two- sided agreement with the European Union. How, then, can this affect our situation? In terms of the contributions to development, it is very important that all these figures be made clearly. But I have to say, because of the position the Icelandic economy has been in the past year, I would have liked to see a slightly greater rise as a proportion of gross national income. I believe that's what we're going to do. Hence, the failure to increase the proportion is disappointing. Even though a significant increase in developing cohesion is being made, I believe that we should have a slightly higher level of progress when we consider the trend in which the land production has been growing considerably, we could see a slightly larger percentage increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u157	A respectable president. In terms of contributions to development, the person mentioned here has been able to make the most of the money and will not stop. The person standing here does not decide for himself the contributions to foreign affairs. I can use everything - especially in the developing world. I agree that we should agree on some plan that we can live up to, in terms and amounts. This, however, means that we need to get that money somewhere else. It may be the hard part to do this. I think it is in general, so those who have spoken in the discussion want us to do even better in that regard. That must be our goal. On the other hand, this is how it is used in other language groups, as known by men. Of course, we must do so. Regarding the Norwegians, their attitude is somewhat marked by an election in the fall. They slowly step to the ground. However, they are completely conscious of the matter. True, Switzerland is more bold in these matters, but it is in a different position. They're talking about the EFTA countries, and as a result, Liechtenstein. They are aware that they will not lose access to British markets. They have communicated with British rulers, but my feelings are that nothing will happen that turns to Norway until after the next election. The way they go, no one knows, but one thing is certain, it will be very difficult for Norwegian politicians not to have access to the British market. This is their most important market, as is ours, and they have very similar interests. But I'm not aware of how things develop. Everybody keeps everything open. I started by talking to the Norwegians. We stand firm in these and other matters, and we have the same interests. [[The president calls.]] But I can't accurately predict the implementation now. We'll see later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u158	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I think it's very important that the EFTA countries continue to work very closely together in this field. I think we've started an analysis of the interests of the EFTA countries in this field in terms of British exits from the European Union, good if it wasn't to propose to the highest level. Secretary of state. I'd love to see what came from that analysis. It is fascinating to see, too, how the interests of these countries meet together and where they do not stick together. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State has finished this analysis. If it has been completed, can it be accessed in some way? It's the first thing. Second, I'd like to ask about this third scene I mentioned, i.e. to make an exit agreement between the British and the European Union, as directed: How do the EU countries possess it? How can they be monitored and possibly affected by their approach? If they succeed in making this exit contract, what time frame they make. Secretary of State on the day when might Iceland possibly be able to do this or the rest of the EEA?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u159	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. Foreign Minister on foreign and international matters. There are a number of things to take, but it is limited in speaking, so it must be done on a larger scale. I'd like to start by mentioning only Britain and Bgret, which has been very much talked about. Of course, the British are our big business country. That's why these matters are important to us. Therefore, it is important for the council to be clear. The Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the public is being kept informed about the course of events. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to keep up with this good conversation because it is necessary for us to do so. In regard to economic work, it has been observed that one standard value should be placed in London to monitor these issues. Well, it's great to know, but that position, on the other hand, is financed within the financial resources of the Ministry. Even if this is an important matter, the question arises: Why do you have to pinch the money? It does not diminish the importance of the project at all. It would be good if a minister could come in after a while. I'd like to go to the EEA and agree with it at the highest. Ministers that it is important to influence the shape of legislation at previous levels and promote Iceland's views. I agree that this EEA database will be very important. I think it's very important that we senators have access to this database, but it won't be just the Ministry case. Then again you ask: Is there enough money in this? Will the employee who starts to care for Britain disappear? I'd like to add that I would like to see more political discussions here at the General Assembly, not just a superficial talk about how good or bad it is going in the European Union, but a discussion of the political as well as at the EEA scene where we can influence, to form a discussion on the white books that are being published. I think it would be an Icelandic discussion of foreign affairs to improve this discussion. It would also be in harmony with a report at the highest level. A minister quoted earlier in his discussion, from 2007. Now I want to turn my song into a cross. I've had less than a few areas where I've agreed with the highest. Minister and his emphasis. Now I'd like to discuss the security and the defence. Although we all agree that national and national security and global security issues are highly important, we approach this group in a very different way and highlight a very different way. On page 18. The 50 report describes national security policy as being equal to active foreign policy, protective policy and public safety. New technologies are spoken of, and these are all the challenges faced by the world's countries. In the national security policy, quite a number of different groups were listed, all of which have equal significance. They are designed to form, as is the case here closely, talking about terrorism, Internet threats, environmental and safety issues in the north, and natural disasters. I'd like to see in this section, under security and defence, put my arms around these matters in a broader way than here is. These points are only close to those, but the focus of the text that follows is on a narrowly defined area of military safety and protection. I think that's a flaw. We can't just deal with whether this is the right approach or not, I feel that if we let it lie between parts, we don't try to get that wide approach, that's a little bit of a mystery. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, I read this report, as well as the government budget, an increase in military activities in Iceland. It was seen with the declaration signed by the United States of Iceland and the United States a year ago. But also, it's supposed to add to what is called the hosting support of the Keflavík security area which, in my opinion, is considered to be a beautiful word for what is subsidized on the NATO aircraft in the United States. The world's vision is also reflected in this text. Just as I came into answer to a talk at the highest. In this report, a minister at the beginning of the discussion is talking about conditions ahead of the Mediterranean, especially in Syria; that is causing serious anxiety. Yes, I agree. However, there are reports of an improved monitoring, cooperation with the European Union and support for security and protection reforms. I wondered what these texts mean. I feel, as I came in earlier, and now has only more time to discuss, that it is as if it is not the war situation which is the threat of security, but the refugees who are the product of the war situation. I feel really bad, if you can understand this text in that way, because people who are fleeing an intolerable situation are not a threat of security, but the conditions they're fleeing from. I also find it uncomfortable to read here on the emphasis on the cooperation of the Atlantic Union, including the Florida. I wondered, " Which Florida is being referred to? ' Is it Katar, who has been pumping weapons to the warring party in Syria? Is it Saudi Arabia that runs a war in the Yemen where millions of starving and human disasters happen? I agree with what is presented here, that individual countries alone do not stop terrorism, the tide of refugees, or the spread of weapons of mass destruction in international crime. Or the safety concerns of poverty and environmental damage and human rights violations. Sadly, however, this is the reaction to these threats. If they are to be based on increased emphasis on military factors, as I believe to be able to read from this report, we are in real trouble at the same time as we struggle to live up to our own goals, which are multitasked in this report, on our contributions to development cooperation. I'm sorry, but my speech is over. I do not get to talk about developing cooperation in this talk, but I will likely have to do so in a future talk. But that has already come a considerable amount of material for the highest level. Minister to answer my question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u160	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows I haven't been able to have a conversation with the Foreign Affairs Committee. I've been rather worried that I've become bored with a foreign business committee, which is another matter. I think it's important that we take a discussion on the issues involved. A senator referred to him. She spoke about Baltrexit and the importance of our holding it well. We did not receive special funding for it, but we used the funding to install a permanent committee in Strasbourg, which we provided in a more practical way and cut most of the money from Paris, to finance London's facility. There was one employee who left Brussels to London, while another will replace Brussels. I agree with what. Senator on the EEA database. What I am working now because the white books were not expected there. They must be. Then I'm referring to a 2007 report, it's about time. It was just elegant and cross political, I thought it was me, directed by Björn Bjarnason, then minister, and the present president of VG was on that committee. I think they totally agreed. We can argue over wording to or from. Of course, the war situation is the threat of security. We don't have to talk about this, okay? Senator. If we have refugees'problems for many years, we will have serious consequences, including some: When it comes to security. That is what we know and have seen throughout history. Therefore, it is important that we work on this with all available resources. We will not be the ones who will see this end, unfortunately. We're not in position to do that. But we try to do good. We don't need to discuss this wording, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u161	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. As we now disagree with many aspects of political affairs, I find it important to also find the surfaces in which we agree and then work together with them. But it is also important to speak clearly about what we differ from what we see in and how we want to do things differently. I think wording is important. I believe, unfortunately, the importance is being put on the wrong focus by highlighting more and more military aspects of defense and security, rather than increasing contributions to create development cooperation. It really is a sense of security. Hv. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir asked the secretary if he should come to an office for security and protection within the Ministry. As far as I could understand it, I was looking at something like that. I'd like to ask them again, "What's the need?" What are the tasks that this office should take care of? How does it cope with the greatest challenges we face, such as when it comes to refugees? If you add emphasis on this, my mind is to prioritize money on the wrong subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u162	A respectable president. Security and protection and development issues are linked. It was interesting to see a statement made by many generals, both present and former, in the U.S. Army when ideas of the new U.S. government of President Trump were about to cut down into evolutionary affairs, that it was what they stressed. We're talking about refugees. Refugees start off with a dire need. There's always some kind of threat that causes it. It is the result of war, famine, natural disasters, and so forth. This may lead to despair in refugees or in refugee camps even for years or decades. This is everyone's problem. All of this hangs together. On the other hand, all countries want trustworthy defenses. The states that consider themselves, e.g. Be neutral, our cousins' noses Swía and find, put a huge amount of money in the army. We don't want to go there. We're in the Atlantic Alliance with a two-sided deal with the United States. In the same way, though, we try to do good in the world, including the world's security. with humanitarian and developmental support. The whole thing hangs out when it comes to these matters, that's what we're looking at at at at the State Department. That's why we're even. looking at this office. Here's your ex- Secretary, my man. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, who pointed out that she did not think this was clear enough at the Ministry and asked if there was a conclusion. But this is one of the points we are considering. Hv. A senator has been given the opportunity to present his views on these policy agendas and foreign positions, but he may also do so as a public citizen, since it is open to all to make comments in this regard. This has to do both with security and protection and development issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u163	It is true that the refugee crisis is causing much of the world's military struggles and also because of the wrongs and exploitations. I am concerned that the reaction of the rich nations, and we truly are counted among them, as growing armor, indiscriminate waste, for military control, and for military alliances. They always talk about it as security and defense. It is part of the world's greatest problem. I don't agree very well. Minister on how to approach these matters. I think it's important that in this discussion, we only come up with discussions about the ministry's security and defenses. And again I wonder who the need is and who the projects are. Will these assignments be military? Clearly, this is one of the things we must strive to examine. One of the questions is: Is this perhaps one of the tasks that are not directly presented in the text with a financial plan, but should we still take and take money into account? I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u164	That would be...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u165	I don't see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u166	Neither have I. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u167	It's good that the Minister doesn't see it either, but I think of how the debate started this morning, that there was also no discussion that high school should be privateized. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So what do you know?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u168	President. Thank you very much. The minister of foreign affairs for having so much share in this conversation today, and surely he wished that we could talk more about one of the biggest links that connects us with other countries, which attracts our cooperation with other countries in various ways. I've seen the Minister be a little cooperative with the General and hope so on. So I would like to ask the minister exactly what this new vision of the Minister is in developing cooperation, the difference in nature, in human language, in this new vision. Are we about to see a major policy change in that class? Now we live in such a time that we are completely unsure about everything. Even the election in France could go either way. This could have a tremendous impact. We see an overwhelming increase in something that can only be described as rasism and even a pure Fascism. I've been watching a lot of documentary films about the situation in Europe. This certainly makes a difference. I know that when it comes to Britain and their presence in the European Union, the Ministry has changed their landscape, but I'd like to ask if there's a longer schedule for what's going on in the world. Whether or not there's a group. Will such a thing fall under the National Security Council? Who's got his finger in his pulse to be aware of all the stirrings in the world? Because I can tell you that things are happening really fast. No matter what people think of the involvement in Iceland, it must be that no one in this country wants the European Union to be eliminated. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is his opinion on whether he believes that Europe is better paid in the cooperation that takes place there. And, of course, there have been demands that the relationship be made more efficient and that people's experiences have to be that it's not just some giant bee farm in Brussels, where it's hard to get in if you're not the right type of Bursel. I think it's something important. I personally wouldn't want to see the European Union fall apart. I think it would produce so much instability when extreme instability is so widespread in many other places. We see what's happening with the Russians regarding Ukraine and other countries as well. We see the agitation that this creates in many of the peoples of our friendship who have borders and history with Russia and their takeover of lands. We see what's happening in Turkey. Very serious. We see what's going on in the United States. Very serious. It's just that I've decided that I'm not going to travel to the United States as an individual or a member of the U.S. government government while the situation is on the border with ministers from, for example. Some years ago, in the northern part of the country, we've had trouble getting caught and fried for going to Iraq for a couple of hours ago. The United States has now passed the law that if you cross the border, they will have the authority to demand access to Facebook or email. I think it's very serious, especially if you're a public person. I'd like to ask the secretary if he's discussed something with the representatives of the U.S. embassy. We're not here with an ambassador yet. It would be nice to know if we would expect such. I understand that Donald Trump has no particular interest in filling all positions. But is there an ambassador coming to Iceland from the United States or not? And when? Has it been discussed how difficult it is for us, as a national agent, to travel to the United States in public interest because of the risk of making access to all our relationships, including people. Our clients who may be sending us messages confidentially? Since then, we have seen other things in the United States that worry me. There are, for example. There are very great attacks on the scientific community and on certain social groups and people from certain countries. I'm really worried about that. I also worry about the bad deal the European Union made with Turkey when it comes to refugees. Now, we have seen how Turkey uses people in a very difficult and weak position as a human shield to threaten the European Union if the European Union or nations inside it criticize Erdogan. I'm concerned about the indifference of the Icelandic government when it comes to the security of our computer systems. Not much of a job is done there. I'd like to know if there's any plans there. I intend, as well as the expected management and monitoring committee, to call for a review from the National Reconclusion on Public Computers. It must be a complete picture of where to set priorities for the security of the State. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that there's something in such a way that if there was a possibility for refugees, especially from countries where there is a very bad situation, such as Syria, a state that's coming under control, if it were, for example. Embassies where applications could be received instead of risking people to stake their lives on the world's largest cemetery, the sea between them. I'd also like to ask how the minister used himself, or if he was in a position to use something, based on the holiday deal we did with China. It made it clear in a statement that can be found on the Department of Ministry that we were going to use ourselves to see that human rights are respected there. I know I have a lot of really boring questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u169	There's only 70 of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u170	But I have great faith in the Minister. He's got a bone in his nose, at least while he was not a member. I hope the bones are still strong, and he will apply himself to the way many Icelanders expect us to apply ourselves internationally. There is a bit of a look at us, not just ourselves, there are many who look to us, that we are the ones who stand out when it is time to make some changes, and we know our little steps that have made a big difference in that historical setting. I hope to the highest. A minister will be given the opportunity to apply himself in that way. There are so many incredible uncertainties. I just hope the Minister will be very alert to our historic role in the matter. Now we all know the excitement of all the countries I've picked up. There are, however, considerable more. Now the North Koreans are doing a bait job in the Chinese, which is a little special. There may also be another story that attracts business agreements and how harsh Trump was to the Chinese in the pursuit of an election in the United States. That they're creating some kind of drama. However, this does not change the fact that we are living in critical times, and it is very important that we have a clear, clear course and follow us. And never forget that even if there is a minister of foreign affairs at the Ministry, it is generally seen that there is a considerable transnational agreement for that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for encouragement and warmth. I'm gonna try to answer some of these questions. Only on the new sample. I like the world goals very much. I think they're ambitious and reasonable, they're a lot of work. It's the opening point when we get to these things. It'll even come. ... wheretheygo in and plan for them that there must be more than just public members involved in these matters. That's what the Northern Nations are doing. We will not receive these nations to which we would like them unless private people come to these same goals. I have a vision that wants to be more active in Iceland in these matters, and it's even coming. The job life inside and, of course, the new Free Society organization. But when it comes to these matters, I'm going to search the Northland carpenter. About the uncertainty. There is much to it. A senator says. We had an open meeting, foreign service, with the HI International Department, and then my old teacher, Harðarson Þ., pointed out that it's not very long since the Communist clans went a long way in Western Europe and had an enormous follow. But we're gonna get through it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u172	- Not fascist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u173	Well, if we cross the world's greatest mass killers, it's probably Communists like Maó and Stalín. I'm not going over the atrocities of Communism. There is no ideologies that have killed as many as have caused such disaster as Communism. Not that ethnicism is repugnant too. Then came the reason. A senator to an object that is very important, this longer evaluation. I have to go over it afterwards in my second answer to what I want to do so that we can do exactly what I think we can do. A senator's been referring to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u174	President. I appreciate the answers. I'm no special fan of Communist horrors, but it's always so bad to aim at something like that when something really terrible is happening right now and we have to deal with it now It's so important. We cannot always look back and say, " They did something bad. ' It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u175	No, you misunderstand me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u176	Yeah. Now we're facing a very long repetition of the story. That's what worries me. I couldn't get over everything else I'm worried about. It's a wonder you get to sleep at night. It is global warming, and the effects that we have already felt around the land, when it comes to waters around us. Since we may not see well enough into the ocean, we often forget to give sufficient attention to the current changes and issues. Both I am referring to the acidification of the sea and that it was only now news of yet another crack in the so-called Larsens ice pack in Antarctica and all that happens there has a far greater impact on us than what happens in the Arctic and I have a considerable concern about the possibility that it could penetrate the Golf stream. We have ambitious goals and were one of the first countries to accept the Paris Treaty, but we do not show it enough in our work, so I would like to ask: Ministers are in close cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. I guess we're not just saying that we think it should be done, but we're going to follow it up in action. We're about to take a position regarding the north, an important responsibility, and aren't we sure we're going to do something more than just say things? I'd like to hear about it. Perhaps the minister will review it in his final speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u177	I think there's a point where I don't finish the answers right now. I have to go to them in the final speech. But what I was referring to earlier was that the professor mentioned that we have previously seen such threats from which the Western State has been able to deal with, and they will be no more. Here called Rasism and Fascism, I hope they too will go to the junkyard of history sooner than later. All these values need to be fought, and you must never lose your sense of urgency. I'm just saying we've seen this before and overcome it. It was during democratic elections, I'm not referring to the inter-war years and World War II. Only for longer periods of food as a dog. A senator mentioned. One of the things I've come up with in this field and the policy at the Ministry is to make better use of the knowledge available on foreign matters. It has to do with not only what is within the Ministry but also with other agents involved and the working of men. to the goal, whatever the case, to assess the situation through active analysis, will be to the length of time in all the cases presented here. I think we can plan a little bit better on that. As an example, I mention ambassadors who have been working long ago, with vast knowledge. I want a structured approach, including. a block of them, that they can get away from what they've already worked on and the knowledge they have, same with the college community, so that members or the public or others can be more active with good information. This is one of the things involved in the Ministry's policy work now. Then around the EU. I'm worried about the EU. I think there are two things up there, one way that the nation understands the problem, wants to deal with it, but I don't always feel that it's in harmony with the party or the other between the people who run the government of Brussels. If men cannot face EU problems, I think they'll be bad. If, however, people face it and are sincere in it, they must deal with it only what kind of EU it will be. [[The president calls.]] Of course, cooperation between countries in Europe is reasonable. I can do it a little better afterwards, along with all other factors. A senator came with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u178	Hv. A senator can be finished. It's a little confusing for us here at the Assembly Hall and for those at home. It's a minister who's going against members of the council in this case and has been misspoken once by the president. I'm not gonna do it this time, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u179	President. Usually it's the other way around. Me and the senators are grilling the Ministers. But now a man has the opportunity to have a word with the minister, detailed but often before this one day of the year, when the matter is being arranged. I just want to make it clear that it is very useful for all who are interested in studying this series of subjects, which is a bit out of breath, to study the report. It summarises various factors. There was one thing I cut a little by. When it comes to developing cooperation and contributions, I don't quite understand why a figure is put in place that attracts inmates and refugees. There is, in fact, another agency that pays for those who take refuge. This can be misunderstood. There's something else I forgot to come to and feel very important. There's a lot about us putting great emphasis on the business contracts and the business services of the Ministry of State. One of the things that are likely to matter is that of having embassies. I recently attended a meeting of the International Parliament. Three embassies from the North had been convened there. I missed Iceland not there, at least just in the basement or something like that. I'd like to ask you if there's any further research involved in running the embassy. I think it's very important to have at least one local employee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u180	A respectable president. It's small, but it's good. I noticed that Piratars had come to a greater part of the Assembly Hall. It would have been a good idea to present a lack of trust, or something like that. But I guess it wouldn't have worked out. Thank you very much. Minister for detailed answers so far and for keeping us up on the watch. I am forced to add a few questions before he has a period of cramps by writing them down. I'm gonna start with the defense. I understand that the entire radar system that handles large parts of the Atlantic and that may cost $33/4 billion. It seems to me from the report that 201⁄225% of this is expected to be supported by NATO. I know you've applied for strength, but it would be interesting to know what the situation is about that application, especially in view of the changing emphasis on the defences of the western ocean in general. It may be appropriate to ask, then, if there was a special meeting or a meeting with the U.S. officials because of the radical change that might occur in the U.S. foreign policy after Trump came into power. Although he has spoken about the archaeology of NATO, the other day he said that he could draw it back, this would have a purpose. It would be interesting to know if we have any ideas about how we will play in the future. He has also said that the United States is not supposed to be strengthening the militaryization of other countries. Rather, it is for itself. Then I also wanted to ask about the air traffic contracts they're fixing with the Russians. If I look at the report on page 40, we will see that the air traffic agreements are in progress and that they may have evicted something further in the light of a meeting as the highest level. Minister and chief. By the end of March, the president of Iceland had Russian officials in Arkhangelsk, which included this. have been discussed. Three, four months later, Skúli Mogensenur, director of Weow air, showed up when he declares that Wow air has Asia in his sight. It's probably not a coincidence. I wondered, " How did that happen? ' Did Show any particular fear that Iceland would receive such air traffic contracts? The report says that getting over aerospace clearance would lead to a turning point in China, India, and Japan. I wondered if he was upset with the work that was going on with you or the other way around or how it was being done. It would be interesting, so I'm adding all the time to questions, to know the situation on our case because of the flag of Iceland that came in the news last year. Then they said it would take years. It's not been a year since this came up, but it's just so strange that some frozen product market in Britain can stop us from using our brand. It's like the Steikhouse Argentina, in Reykjavík, made a beak with the authorities in Buenos Aires. On page 18. The 68 report describes the need for cross contracts. Total framework agreements with focus centres and Icelandic civil organisations in connection with humanitarian assistance. It is said that there is now one frame deal in force, but they should go up to six and stay there. I suppose there are five specific points that should be there, and I was wondering what organizations and institutions are up to making a frame deal. And I've been told that there's a lot of pressure in the embassy that'll handle visas in Iceland, which doesn't say U.S. embassies. It has even had to increase the number of workers in foreign embassies in order to further demand for visas to Iceland, which will likely increase further if it is sent directly to Asia. I'm wondering if it's some kind of long - suffering thing in men to let us get away with them and if there's any need for us to be involved in the cost of these things. I know that's a very good experience, e.g. The joint embassies of the Northern States in Berlin. For a long time, it has been successful to make good use of that situation. It is a question of whether there is some agreement in the future, that we can share not only housing but even staff with the most intimate countries. Finally, it's a matter of this TTIP deal. I don't know if he's been called notorious at this point, but he's existed... He stands for Trans-something. It was assumed that he would be decomposed when Trump took over, but then Paul Ryan, president of the U.S. Congress for the Republicans, suggested that this discussion could be resumed. We could, then, be involved in the deal. We're taking the lead in the North Pole at 2019. There is a considerable amount of time, but it would be nice to know how the power is. A minister sees that we can use the opportunities involved in the prehumanity of the two years and whether any emphasis will be made based on the way this has been done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u181	A respectable president. It's obvious. A senator has read at home and has many questions for the minister here. [[Up front.]] I'm gonna try to go over as much as I can. You're right. A senator says that there's an update to the radar systems. We're never going to pay 25%. It's in the starting stages now. We are applying for the NATO Cadet Fund, but it is still in the early stages. Regarding the U.S. State Policy: I have attended both NATO's foreign conference and a defense meeting. It has been found that this is a highly traditional policy, as we should get used to it from the United States when it comes to the Atlantic Alliance. We're not expecting that to change. About WOW lies before them to be very interested, and go no disguise with it, to fly farther than they have done before. I don't know any better than Icelland's interest. We're trying to do as much of the air travel contracts as possible. Chefavik was built up in decades by being a center in the Atlantic Ocean. Now it's very easy to fly directly across the Atlantic. If we are to maintain our position of self - determination, we need to carry more than we now have. It's no secret that we're trying to achieve a Russian air travel deal like many other countries. The Icelanda logo is a very important case. My predecessor, my lord. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, set it up. We'll follow it closely, and it's not just for courts and such, but it's also the time for the discussion in Britain, etc. This is a very important matter. There's a few more elements here that I'm going to have to take the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u182	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the answers and answers that follow in the summary, which becomes a great work of literature, I presume. It was a long speech, and there's very little I'd like to add. I'd just like to mention the longer-term masquerade that is the developing team that we're in and revolves around the earth. It is described in the report as renewable or sustainable, and reminds me, which in the light of what we know about the length of such asholes. But that's very secondary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u183	A respectable president. I'm going back to where it was gone. When it comes to contracts, it should be the general rule. I did not find out exactly what that was all about, but it's supposed to be a general rule when it comes to our business with non-company. For visas, men pay for them. Other nations, mostly Danir, have done what we have not been in a position to do. But it's money in and out. It's supposed to come out at zero. The problem has been, and I've called attention to the Foreign Affairs Committee, that the income of this goes to the state fund, but the charges are at the State Department. It doesn't make sense. We'll need a large increase in these places if we reach air travel contracts, e.g. large Asian countries I encourage a world of Congress to keep an eye on it. You're absolutely right. A member of the council that works well in Berlin. This is one of the factors that we are considering when it comes to the meal. I've talked to my colleagues in the North countries about how to work better together. There are some ideas in this regard. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir referred to Bangladesh. But they will not pay with us. For example, I know that Danir, and most of them, have a real estate club. If we were in the area, we'd have to pay for it. But there may be great benefits, especially when we are starting somewhere or going on some assignment, possibly with our cousins. It's a will for all the colleagues I've talked to for the fact that the North countries work even more together. This gives us a lot of experience. TITP comes in because you gave up on WTO/GATT. We'll be very careful about this, if it starts a business agreement and it starts again, whether it's America or Britain or the United States and the EU. I hope we see business agreements that make sense in the near future. We've set up a policy that the public is involved in, the first thing I did as a minister was to open such a meeting, when it comes to the Arctic. With a geologist, I know that case only from previous jobs. [[The president calls.]] It all depends on how you do it. The oldest hole and activation are now in Italy, and it is well over 100 years old, and then there are bad examples when men overtake them. With Icelanders, we should know this so that we can impart experience on how to do this sustainablely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u184	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this, and I hope to have as often a foreign exchange in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u185	[[No hard questions now.]] V.E.G. President. I want to thank you in the beginning. Foreign Minister for the report and the opportunity for us senators to take up business discussions in this hall. Of course, we'll take up a discussion on foreign affairs with other teams, in inquirys, and when there's a special occasion, when there's a council coming in here that has touched on foreign policy and foreign policy. But it will also be good to realize that once a year we will have a broader discussion on the main issues of foreign policy. On the other hand, I wondered, and I know that more members of the council have done so, whether there is a basis for such discussions more often and possibly with a more specific subject at a time. I believe that there is a point that we need to consider at the council's centre whether there is a basis for it to be found, perhaps by delivering a report on the relative aspects of the foreign policy and the members of Congress that would allow us to discuss perhaps more on the basis of a unique subject. I would say that today's debate reflects that, basically, the fundamental theme of our foreign policy is the same. Of course, there are opinions we know. Parts and senators differ in their view of our possible approach to the European Union. We know that in the area of security and protection, there is a critical difference that affects our involvement in the Atlantic Union and the Western defense work. There are familiar and old issues, so to speak, and they are presented in one way or another. But on the other hand, we are not dealing with radical changes in this regard, for for example. The voices we've been talking about leaving the Atlantic Union and trying to protect the United States have not been loud in the sales of the council. It can be said that there was a remarkable agreement to maintain it as one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. It has been reflected in the discussions of national security policy and the arrangements, national security programs, and the like that we completed during our last term, which goes beyond our present state in the Atlantic Alliance and in the defences of the United States as a major factor. Of course, while other voices have been heard and advocates of the left green have challenged their view of it, this factor has not, in recent years, caused significant disagreements. Opinions on the European Union are coming up here, with different views on our possible involvement in the European Union over the course of the past few years. It now sounds to me that most people realize that any human position is likely to be that the European Union's question will not be very practical. In the context of Icelandic politics, it has been said that the technical issue of continuation should be considered rather than the basic question of Iceland's involvement in the European Union or not. After the last election, it was apparent that a government that would not completely have a uniform policy or a coordinated relationship with these factors. All the government patterns that were on the table after the last election made it necessary to classify those who had different policies in these areas together. When the present government was formed, there was an agreement on a specific wording as a matter of course. Congress members know that if there is a proposal for a decision to make the European Union's affairs, such proposals will be made to be granted at the end of the council or at the end of the term. The groups involved in the government respect one another's differing view of that question. So, that case has been set aside for a time, we can say, for, as it is, as I said at the beginning of my case, perhaps not practical if we look at the state of the cases, both political positions in the country and state of Europe, to expect Iceland to be joining the European Union in the near future. As for other factors, in a fine report by the minister of foreign law, I would like to mention three for a trial. I think it's important and should be a relatively good agreement here that the changes in Britain's resignation from the European Union require response on the part of Iceland. These issues are quite uncertain, as it can be said, that despite confirming that the British are breaking up, discussions between the British and the European Union and their future arrangements are still quite vague. Lines have not yet been clarified. As for Iceland's interests in this regard, the state service and the political leadership of foreign affairs in Iceland must focus on protecting Iceland's interests in relations with Britain, as it is an extremely important market for us and a very important business country. Looks like the best response. Foreign Ministers and officials are on the verge of paying close attention to that position, taking care of our view of this situation. Hence, even if matters have not reached the point where nothing is attached, what has been heard from the British is promising. I think that on the part of the British, there's a lot to maintain a good, solid relationship with Iceland. It certainly is on our part. So I would say that our business relationship with Britain after Britain's resignation takes effect is not a question of will, neither on our part nor on their part, but some technical implementation of that arrangement. Taking care of our interests and making good use of the EEA contract is a persistent subject and is given some space in the report on that subject. I'm saying it's really important that we keep our own interests in that relationship. The EEA deal is extremely important to us. We need to guard him and make good use of his qualities. It is not a faultless phenomenon, but we need to find ways to live with the problems but take full advantage of the benefits. The third thing that I wanted to mention at the very end of my talk is that the Arctic languages affect us in many ways and touch many areas of foreign policy. Of course, they involve climate, environment, and such factors; they also involve defenses in their own way, business, and so on. I want at the end of my case to agree that we need to make the most of the time we're in the lead in the Arctic Council to ensure our position in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u186	Mr. President. The fine discussions we have had here today regarding the report of the secretary of state prove that there is a need for more and more serious discussion on international and foreign matters here at the General Assembly, especially to draw attention to the international issues and to encourage more general discussions about what is in many parts of the Icelandic community. A bitter exchange of words and a strong argument between the government and the secretary of state of Europe are by no means surprising, but it reflects the gap between the groups in that environment and how inconsistency and inconsistency may be in their dealings with groups of cooperation in that environment. There is no doubt about the highest position. Secretary of state. In my first speech, I entered the evolutionary and ambitious issues, where we can do much better; the blurred funding of the individual foreign groups, the new policy of security and defenses as presented here, but, of course, it's not clear who is; and then, of course, Bgreit and the Minister's vision of them all and the European Union's relationship with Bgret, but also apart from Bynit. In all these matters, I want to encourage the highest. Minister of state to have a good relationship with the council and to willingly inform the council of all the matters and decisions that are available or that are being considered in his Ministry. More information is good and may reduce unnecessary differences. I would like to mention a few more subjects in my second speech than I did in my previous talk. It is the environment that we know to be a guide and a kind of center in our foreign policy, whether by laying all the weight and emphasis on the environment in the preparatory work of Iceland's premedicity in the Arctic Council, which is absolutely necessary in view of the tremendous rapid changes in the north due to climate change, not only causing concern about their impact on nature, culture, and life - style of people in the north, but also our immense interest in dealing with the increased traffic in this area - scientific research that Iceland is supposed to have to lead to my senses and to lead in the process. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. Foreign Minister to increase the environmental burden in the vastest context of the foreign policy and responsibilities of the foreign service, thereby demonstrating a vision and responsibility in action, and not only with the international commitments in the environment that Iceland has undergone but also with international examples in the environment. I know, and I believe that he agrees with me in that regard. Hv. paritaprevir Nichole Mosty noted in his earlier speech that in a report by the Secretary of State, a series of human rights measures and his vision of how Iceland can handle the international rights struggle of LGBT. Of course, I agree with that. Because a minister has almost as poor a VG and the United States government as I am proud of the good works that the government has done, I would like to kindly show him that in the time of that government a great deal was done on the task of calling attention to the legal struggles of the LGBT people at the highest level. A minister can take advantage of himself in his work. With regard to the equality issues and their share in the foreign service, which are already good and important, I can inform the highest level of enlightenment. Secretary of state that I am a very feminian foreign policy and am absolutely certain of the highest. Secretary of State shares my view that there is an even greater need to stress the equality issues in Icelandic foreign policy than we already do. In equality, we are good internationalists, and these are subjects and lawsuits that we can share with other nations and contribute to our foreign policy and in the international field. I think that there is still a great opportunity for us to use us, to attract greater attention to equality, than we already do, in a handsome way, especially on the realm and on the realms of the United Nations. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to bring these matters to full attention. Research has shown that the international and foreign equality issues and the authority of women, and their raising in foreign service, usually produce peaceful solutions in foreign affairs and increase the variety and opinions of those sitting at the table on decision making. I don't think there's anything to be traced to the highest level. Minister. I think he knows very well what I mean. [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage a minister of good works and thank you for the excellent discussion we have had today on his report on foreign and international matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the pep talk. Maybe I don't have to underline all of your lines. A senator during the discussion or some interpretation of things, but that is a secondary point. It is good that there is still much harmony, and perhaps most, despite the fact that we are truly in our place of politics. Hv. A senator says that there is a misunderstanding about the mention of queer people in the report, but that is not true. In fact, it is done at first, in the introduction, under the pressure. I'll read it to you. Senator, this is also another part of the report. So says, with President's permission: A human right is one of the basics of foreign policy, and the Icelandic government advocates human rights on the scene of the multi-national and regional states. Special emphasis has been placed on equality between the sexes, and considerable work and money have been spent on equality in recent years. Each opportunity has been new to promote equality, rights of queer people, and rights of children. This is in the introduction. This is also shown in the section. I've also been reviewing the way I've used myself in these over 100 days. I call attention to the fact that I am the only Icelandic secretary of state who has referred to the United Nations Human Rights Council as a single site. There I specifically adopted these people's affairs, and I have likewise done so with those in authority, and I will continue to do so. I view this as a positive incentive, but it is not true that this is not in the report. Of course, the report is one thing, except this is in the report, and we have carried out and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u188	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for his counter-importation and tips. It's right next to the highest. Ministers that it was a positive encouragement. I'm sorry if I've overlooked the mention of LGBT people's affairs. I think we can do much better on that. Although we remind ourselves of them at international level, we must also take the lead in our work, as it were, in the highest order. The minister mentioned, and this also applies to the equality. There are words first, but acts are spoken, and men are measured by their works, and not words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u189	A respectable president. I hope I don't feel too sorry. Minister of State, when I tell him that I am not going to speak in my second speech to speak specifically about the European Union, though I know that he is just as fond of discussing that matter with me as I am of discussing it with him. I think it's good and good, and I agree with what's been said. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, is that there is good reason to consider whether we can have more discussions on foreign matters at the council and even more part - time on the topic field. I think it might be the topic area, foreign affairs, international affairs, to further our discussion in the conference hall. I'd like to get a little closer into the human rights and development partnerships, because I couldn't do that in my first speech today. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the Free Trade Convention, which has been in operation between EFTA and Turkey, and will be discussed in the financial agreements on page 2. Forty in the report. Of course, it is clear to everyone, and it was revealed in my first speech, that Turkey is on a very dangerous journey when it comes to the human rights of Turkish citizens and the dictatorships of President Turkey are indeed frightening. That's why I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The Minister and the Ministry have or will record it in the field of the EFTA states and see if they think it is a reason to discuss this situation in particular at their meetings about this vacation agreement. Then, unfortunately, the question arises, Is Turkey going to join us and our alliances in NATO? I'd like to enter a minister for that, and ask him to share his vision of that matter with the Senate. I can see and be especially glad that there is still a high level of equality being done under my head and being promoted in the Minister's report. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, and it's been established in other speeches. Parliaments on the rights of gay people, whether he sees a reason to examine them in particular in a more purposeful and efficient way than has been done in equality, to uphold rights, that we are just as consistent with ourselves in the affairs of queer people as we have been in the equality. The point of the question is that it seems that the situation of queer people gets worse when tension and instability increase or conflict begins to cool down in communities, as we see today. It seems that queers are usually among the first to be subjected to violence or harassment. That's why I'd talk about it and be interesting to hear a vision. It belongs to a minister. Finally, I want to pray to the highest. Minister for further access to development aid. I'd like to ask him if he has any feeling about how we're gonna come out of the symmetry of DiaC and if he can share his vision with us on how we can progressively move toward 0.7% of our goals. Does a minister need to work on a specific or updated timetable on how and when we will reach that goal? Otherwise, I want to thank you right at the end of the day, both of you. Minister and minister. Today, members of the body of elders are making an excellent and upbuilding discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u190	A respectable president. It's good to be a top dog. Minister has a positive view of my answers. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in the wake of the verbal exchange that took place between her and her as president. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Supreme Agents. Minister of foreign affairs in the past, whether the vision described in the report harmonizes with the values and conditions of restoration. The issues presented earlier today were natural very large questions and a very large case of opinion in which the government groups did not seem to have an entire line. If this document, especially the European issue, describes the government's foreign policy, then there's no problem. So a senator would actually agree with the attitude here, though it is certainly possible for members of the council to be divided? I think it's healthy to communicate, but it seems to me that it's too far between them. Chairman of the State Department and the Supreme Agent. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u191	I'd like to thank a senator for the question. In my speech earlier today, I especially rejoiced that it would be made so clear in the report how interrelated the interests of Iceland and the European Union are. It's very well described, and it's very good. Even at the highest. The secretary of state does not necessarily agree on whether the future of Iceland is better off in the European Union or not, it is a larger ideological debate we took today and will probably continue to take over, whether it is here at the council Hall or at the tunnel. I think it's, like, cot. A senator comes on, it's good we do it, but we do the highest. Ministers certainly agree that the EEA contract is the most important international contract made by Iceland. We must take care of it and build on it, and try to make as good of it as possible and improve the way we feel and interests in the field of the European Union and make all work around the EEA as effective and as good as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u192	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. The question, though, is, Is it enough for Hannun to agree only on the EEA, even though I think that meeting together is a very good thing? There is nothing in this report or in the financial programme to indicate that the infrastructure will be strengthened or on the support network we should have. So, is that enough? We're going to do this well, but then we have to look at the fact that 13 Brussels embassy officials are the only thing to look after our interests in the EEA, if we can say so. Now's the time. A member of the U.S. Marshal's Department. Secretary of finance. For example, in London a whole set of values was cut down, so there were some things that had to be done to ensure our position on Bgreit, in order to have a specialist there. It's as if your right hand and left hand aren't necessarily playing the same job. It's great to want certain things, but it's fine if we all agree that there's a EEA. But the ideas are not becoming reality. That's what we see here. Is that enough? Is it enough for all of us to agree that the best thing in the world is the EEA? Are we doing enough? Is wooding Enough? Does repercussion protect Iceland's interests in the European economy, which we so admire?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u193	A respectable president. I think it's important that it comes out, and I think it's just a good thing today, that me and the highest. Secretary of state is not in the same category. Our groups have a very different view of this matter, which is why the Law covenant made a legal compromise. That compromise is totally clear, and it just needed to be reached. I can totally agree that it's part of promoting Iceland's interests in Brussels to increase the number of employees there, and I know it's going to be in -- the highest level. Ministers have presented it at the scene of the Foreign Affairs Committee and here at the Parliament and in other committees - a job to pass through the work of the foreign service, with the goal of maximising the effectiveness and quality of services that have been very effective so far. They're trying to do even better. I have high hopes that this work will bring what we all want to achieve, i.e. Better interests in Brussels. I also have certain expectations for the work we do. The Foreign Affairs Committee is working on the arrival of the Council in the treatment of EEA matters. We hope to see that all of this work together towards better interest care and increased effectiveness in the activities of the Parliament and the Ministry on the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u194	V.E.G. President. I hear the highest. Minister is very happy that I step into the platform. I want to begin to agree with what has been mentioned here. I believe that a more progressive debate that would be broken down in the foreign languages was very much the good and would deepen a discussion of foreign and international matters, both on Iceland's interests, which, of course, are enormously large and in very different areas, but more so on our contribution as a nation to the world, because it is quite substantial. We've covered such issues as women's and women's rights, we've done a hell of a good job, as well as the rights of LGBT people. I think it would be good for us as a community to be able to take up a discussion about different lawsuits more on the depth. It is difficult to discuss a report that will address such important issues as a report at the head. The minister of foreign affairs, where members of Congress have 15 minutes and 10 minutes, then five more minutes to discuss it. That's why I'm here in a second speech, i.e. Because even though I spoke rather quickly, I simply couldn't control all the matters I wanted to talk about in my first talk. That's why I want to use my time now, including... To say, as the rest of us have described here, that I believe that the Arctic affairs are very important. I am excited to see our prehuman existence in the Council of North Pole, and I certainly hope that our prehumanity will benefit the territory. It was out of the development team that I made a silent call because I believe it to be a very large foundation for world peace and security. Of course, many times have it been said that I am unhappy that Iceland does not contribute more to development than we have in recent years and that the policy that has been established in a financial program is not ambitious enough. I want more to be done so that we can achieve the goal set out by rich Western nations, i.e. to place 0.7% of its domestic product in the developing co-operation. It is not only money that matters but, of course, how they are spent. V.E.G. A minister has talked about two things he would like to stress when it comes to developing cooperation. He's been talking about Iceland's expertise in fishing and on the surface of the earth. I think it's only natural for us to stress what we are good at, so to speak. Also, Ministers have talked about the basic needs of private and professional companies. I expressed my concern in the discussions in these halls when it was being brought down to the Developmental Research Institute that it was never to be supported on the terms of the government that gave it, i.e. On the grounds of the rich. I want to keep that perspective at the highest level. Minister. Then I'd also like to stress it and ask if there's anything to relax about promoting social infrastructure. While there may be no many exciting assignments that we strengthen that are far away, building mollusks, or digging wells, this certainly is of utmost importance to the nations we have been helping, and cooperating with us in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I want to keep their views up and ask them the highest. Minister if there's anything to relax about social infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u195	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you very much for this discussion that I think has been good. I agree with all those who have mentioned that it is, I think, better to divide it anyway. We just need to appreciate it. I think it's time. A foreign - business committee takes the initiative to appreciate this. I'm just for my part saying that I'm totally ready for it. I think it's very good. I feel that much has been said during the discussion, and that's normal. We've tried to shorten the report, try to make it more clear because it's a long reading, but it's normal. Councilmen. So when we talk about this, you'll find out what they agree to do differently. The worst is when a person fails to agree on what he disagrees with, and the discussion often becomes a very peculiar site. I think she's matured well here today. I'm not surprised that I feel that we agree much more than I disagree. But then, of course, it's okay to disagree. We're each one of our own. It should not be surprising that, as we stand, we do not have the same policy when it comes, for example. In the EU, there should be no news. That's the way it is. We can only determine how we handle these matters in the government covenant, as always will be. I don't know that at any time in the Icelandic story, the two identical categories formed a government, or three, if that's the case. If so, I've been completely overlooked. Hv. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir mentioned the social and infrastructure. They're very important. No, they don't seem to relax at all. There are so many things we have to offer. There are certain things. One is the geologic and environmental energy and the sea route. We also have much to offer when it comes to health care, e.g. for baby monitoring or nursing, etc. Doing so has yielded good results. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson left e.g. over the land healing. I'm interested in examining other factors that are good, I mention, for example. The preemptives I feel have something to do with the equality issues. There, we have had very good results. In developing countries and many other countries, there is a major problem, and most of these are related to my gender. It's all hanging out. I've been, to be completely informed, encouraged to inform everything I think about, I don't think that's a good idea. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators would soon be bored if they could hear everything I can think of. But you could understand whyRósa Björk I see the despair of her face when she realizes that I understood it this way. [[The point is, that's not good.]] So it's just everything that's right here, because nobody's prepared to tell me what I'm thinking about. Hv. paritaprevir Elínardóttir Sólveig Elinardóttir discussed certain matters about Turkey. I may not have to track it down, and our position in Turkey, it's all light. A special committee handles these matters by EFTA. Of course, we do. Hv. A senator asks me about NATO. Let's talk about things the way they are. The world is not what we want it to be, it is what it is. Turkey has been highly divided for a long time. You have a Western society, then you have everything else. It would be awesome for the Western world if Turkey went somewhere else, just to be said. If Turkey became like some of the lands nearby. Then it is the question for the international community: How is it best to help the forces with which we share and to encourage them? That is not a simple answer. It's a critical case, for example. The EU Convention on Customs. I don't think there was any evil on the part of the EU when men made that deal. I don't think that's the point. They're trying to find a way to keep Turkey close to us, but at the same time they're giving us a message: it's not working, you can't walk out the way it's been done. The question, as we have at times considered, is, Which roads are the best? We agree on our goals, but it's not all completely cut and cut. Right on the subject of gay people, they're right here in the entrance. This is one of our priorities. With DAC's peers. I have a modest optimistic view that we will be able to handle it well, but of course it will be presented to us. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the House when it comes. How we can develop. I think if we left what we're up to 0.7% now it would be 13 billion a year. I think it would be a bit big to take, even if the will is good for you. Councilmen. True, I have wondered if we can take this into account in terms of subsidies or such and set goals in this regard. There are various ways to do this. All classes have been heard to make a higher ratio and, hence, a higher amount, but we also need to be careful when things come down, they come, that we have a line in this, so that we don't take down the same amount as they have done when something's messed up in the economy and, of course, we'll always have economic fluctuations. Then it's also about us doing it as best we can. Just so they say because they've been criticizing that there's money at home. It's always been. We'll just fill up OECD's conditions when it comes to how we give it up. These are not localized rules of rules for developing countries. There is only one specific decision taken as a evolutionary issue, and of course we adhere to it. We don't make our own. That's what you're saying. Because they named the private enterprise here, of course, a lot of this might be the most accomplished by personal initiative, I don't have to go over it, it's not like everything we do is the statery we do in evolutionary matters, it's not like that. But if we're going to reach our world goals, we all agree on that, then we have to get our job life in, we have to get more money in. We want to reach our world goals. We are to examine only those who do this best, and we are to examine and learn from the good things they do and not make mistakes if possible. Hv. paritaprevir Bordi Haraldsdóttir asked about the economy. The benefits of recent invitations, I haven't forgotten what I've been talking about since political beginning, the designer security was offered out, just so little save 9.3 million a year. [[Upwards: good.]] The data transfers for the specific embassy, small case, saved 5.3 million. Then, in terms of a computer that is not a big issue, 16.4 million were saved each year. It's something that matters. That's the public money we're going with. A lot of small things do one big thing. You're right next door. A member of the Parliament when it comes to business with the Netherlands. I don't like how little information we have when it comes to our foreign business, but it's not. In view of the figures, this is our largest export, but half of our business is an aluminium. There's nothing to go into the Netherlands or a small part of it, the other factor is likely to enter the Netherlands very little. This concludes that the customs reports are not properly completed. We've known this for a long time, but it's not being followed for proper information. Of course, if we are to succeed in our foreign business, we need to know where we are selling. As it is now, it seems to me that we have not arrived where I want us to be. There are relatively few countries like this. in the EU we deal with. It is largely Britain, Germany, Spain, France, and possibly Belgium, just the North countries, but we are not selling, based on these figures, in other countries that may have less money. But now it seems to me that various goods, such as fish, flow a little by where you pay the best. I just don't know, and I want to know because my foreign business is my thing. Please refer to the intermediate class. It's changing. Hv. A senator asks how we are going to protect our interests. It's not just about free trade agreements, it's also about air travel contracts. Our tourism is an incredibly important industry, but only as soon as it is flown, it is a powerful influence. It also expands our horizon. While it is good to visit our closest friends, we benefit from seeing more than just the immediate environment. I can't go much further, a respectable president. I was going to answer it. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, I had a problem. I see in her that she's gonna forgive me for this. We have the opportunity to discuss these matters again, for I would have wanted to go deeper into things as well as the wind. A senator went through, many interesting things. I hope we'll have an opportunity sooner than later to change it because it was all there was - now I got eyes that I don't like, a respectable president, but I hope I'll be forgiven. I want to use this opportunity and thank you for a good and perfunctory discussion, hoping that we will take it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u196	A respectable president. In the absence of a collaborator, I recommend a report on our involvement in the Norwegian cooperation of the National Ministerial Committee in 2016. The Norwegian cooperation as it is carried out by the Helsinki Convention is very extensive and takes place on ten Ministerial Committees. Most of Iceland's government ministers are involved there, along with their Norwegian coal. In such a report, it is not possible to complete all that work. That would probably take ten independent reports. The objective of this report is far more likely to give the General insight into what is commonly called the formal, Norwegian cooperation and drive back to 1971 when the Norwegian Minister was formed. Iceland and I have tremendous benefits from participating in this cooperation. Our contribution to the money is considered to be small, considering all that we receive back. At the beginning of the year, Finns took in the lead of Dana's leadership program, setting up with the prehistoric plan water, nature, and human beings. Among other things, they worked to promote digital cooperation in the North countries, but it will be increasingly interesting to try to find common digital solutions for many of the community's topics. It is, in fact, the nucleus of Norwegian cooperation to rely on the Norwegian cohesion to work together on projects that all countries have to face. Increased European consultations were also a special focus for Find in the Prehuman Year. This was in harmony with the proclamation by the Norwegian prime minister. It's a team that's even to improve consultation on the implementation of EU initiatives prior to legislation in the three EU and EEA countries. If such cooperation is achieved, hopes are strong to prevent new barriers from forming in the Norwegian border. The removal of the border or administrative barriers was also one of the priorities of Finn. This is a subject that has been at the top of the Norwegian partnership for at least the past 15 years. Strong work and progress in this area are considered one of the most important reasons why the North countries can achieve their goal of becoming an attractive economic environment in Europe. In the year that the North countries hoped for an effect on the North Sea, there was a major loss on world affairs, including the Norwegian cohesion. The refugee stream met the North countries in various ways, each dealing with many complex challenges. Early in the year, it was decided to bring the Norwegian pie together and to try hard to find a common ground for communication and response to the problems faced. The Norwegian Minister's Committee was an ideal site for formal and informal cooperation. In that town, the response was rapid and effective. Late a year had been developed and approved by the North American Cooperation Programme, and those ministers handling refugees'affairs and adapting immigrants had a informal meeting where they agreed to promote international cooperation in this field. With new priorities within the Norwegian budget, a cooperative plan was able to ensure needed financial support. Here is an excellent example of the flexibility that distinguishes the work of the Norwegian Minister, although much of it is very fixed. By the end of 2016, Iceland's executive projects began during the lead year of 2014. These include: the North American economy, Biophilia, the Norse Playlist, and the Norse Health Watch. The Icelandic projects have been given a very good swing, and they are seen as examples of how such projects should be carried out. Iceland next takes the lead at the Ministry of Ministers at the beginning of 2019 and is already in session at the council's office. We are able to take initiative in large, political, important tasks that will be carried out in good cooperation with our partners in other countries. President. I don't think there's any reason to reenact the report. She speaks her language. I strongly encourage members of the Parliament to study its contents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u197	Mr. President. Only a matter of service. A working colleague, I presume, only on the subject of border barriers. Here we briefly discuss the activities of the border barrier and that it has yielded fine results since it began in 2014. I agree with that. I think it was one of the more wholesome things that could be classified as a new creation in the work during the past few years, i.e. The high emphasis that has been put on making plans to reduce and eliminate human and commercial barriers, to travel and work, and to do business in the whole of the northern countries. This situation affects young people, particularly young ones, who are moving. This has turned to the transfer of rights and to a number of abstract things that often come up about the same value in all North countries. There was also the famous example of the slow - eared driver's license, which they stood with for a year or two, all at once were not eligible or recognized in Sweden or elsewhere in the North. I especially wanted to ask the highest. Minister only on whether he knows how this work is done by the government. I think we could, too, take it to us at the council. Some of the other councils give special consideration to this and even a special group of members in the councils. It is also important that the performance of this procedure is actively performed. I think it's appropriate to mention this today, because it was just coming along with the happy news that it was hanging off the border patrol at the Eysle Bridge. The recording of a passport check has been completed, and it was a little awkward in the context that people feel that they have been working absolutely hard to break down barriers, where new ones were raised. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u198	A respectable president. I think that's right what's going on. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and that most of us agree on the importance of carrying out such assignments. This may have been what has marked cooperation between the northern countries. I'm glad to see you go through this job that men work according to these princes in the changed world. You can never relax as far as it goes. Hv. A senator points out that in other parts of the North countries, and he knows these things as if his palm had ended up working a long time in this field and knowing a good deal of work and having a good connection, if this was to be done specifically in the Norwegian Parliament. I'll admit I don't know exactly how it's done here at the High Council. However, it is my opinion that this is one of the things we should pay more attention and work in an orderly manner if we do not already do so. First thing. The senator specifically asked about the council, how it handles it, and its interaction with the minister and the Norwegian Minister's Committee, I will admit that I am not the best man to discuss it. But I feel that in other matters, we need to plan more carefully here at the council. You can sense that there's a lot of interest in our colleagues, and more than I expected, when it comes to the Norwegian partnership. I think that's very logical for all of the reasons. I'm a little excited to know what ideas are involved. A senator has and what he refers to when he speaks of being organized in the Norwegian Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u199	Mr. President. At any rate, I know that in Denmark, people have organized a special discussion about this and kept out of the way how the case was handled on the part of a government dance band. It is very often, so both the European Commission and even the legislator must be cooperated if obstacles are solved. I can admit that I did not do more than one thing that was done in writing to the heads of the council and trying to discuss with them how these matters could be handled better at the council. I wanted to mention something else to a minister, although neither is directly at the authority of the Minister. Oh, no, no, no, It may be more about the Northern Council itself. It is also an application or proposal from Iceland and Finland that Icelandic and Finnish will be adopted as a valid workmate in the Norwegian partnership. It will need support in the Council of Ministers and money to make it a reality. It's in progress. However, dystocia associated with potential cost has become a problem for humans. It's about to be agreed on to increase the budget to the Northern Community Council, which has relatively little funding compared to the overall budget. I suppose that's the way of the Minister's Council of Ministers to about 920,930 million. ... atill. but in the Northern Council, about 32 million people. ... atill. This is another thing that I think we need, and I hope our co-worker and prime minister will join us in the National Council of Iceland, and the other is then the movers' application to validate involvement in the Norwegian partnership. We've taken the Polish on the hill, representatives of the Iceland Department, to support it strongly. However, there is also considerable conservativeity, and it was careful to avoid simply rejecting this at the last meeting of the Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]] I feel and ask the highest. Minister if he doesn't feel the same way, that we Icelanders have to do with ourselves and back up our cousins.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u200	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the contrary. I want to take this opportunity and encourage you. A senator to have - because I don't think anyone knows the discussion better than that. A senator who has been involved not just for years but decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u201	Centuries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u202	Hv. A senator calls centuries. I didn't say that. I wasn't the one who said it, it was a collaborator. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. But I think we should pay more attention, as we discussed earlier in the discussions about the foreign minister's report. We do the best by discussing this specifically at the council. I'm a bit of an amateur when it comes to the exchanges. A senator gave the commission. My experience is that we've come to a place where we can use Norwegian cooperation better than we've ever done before. I think there's a lot more interest in it than there was before. That interest comes from seeing how wise it is. That's what I'm feeling at the Norse Corporation. The world can tell you to grow and decrease, but many of the nations we want to communicate with are known as a whole but not by individual countries. That is why it is very logical that we work together and that we may expect to be the best platform to do so in the Northern Council, where you bring Congress connections and connections into the legislature and even the execution of authority. Regarding the Faeroe Islands, I have to say, as it is from the moment I got into politics, I have supported my cousins everything between the sky and the earth, and I've always felt comfortable with it. I see no reason to change that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u203	A respectable president. It is my privilege to stand here as president of the Western Institute of Iceland and the President of the Westnoric Council and present the council report, in fact, from the past year when I did not have the privilege of being in the best of advice. I hope I do well to review this fine report, but if it's in the Senate Hall, it's also the vice president of the council, who has all the more experience than I have in this job, anyway. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, so I expect her to come and fill the gaps. Let's start with a little discussion about the Western Council. It runs down to 1985 when the Council of Western Congress was introduced into the Western Council in 1997. The objective of the Western National Council is to work in the best interests of the West-Northern, to protect resources and cultural heritage of the North Atlantic, to promote the cooperation of the government and the national administrations of the West-Northern countries on important issues, and to be a contingency of the Western Community partners. The Western Council has concluded on a number of issues, including environment, resource and transport, rescue and security, Northern health, culture, sports and youth issues, to name just a few. The Council meets twice a year for a annual meeting, usually in August or early September, and for a theme conference in January. The annual meeting has the highest decision force of the council and the Western Council Presidency Committee for the Work and Work of the Council between annual meetings. In the Republic of the Western Council in 2016, the leading members of the Trustees of Konráðsdóttir, president of the United States, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, vice president of Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's Oddný, Odnew G. Harðardóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson and Þöstein Sæmundsson. The Iceland Department held four meetings during the year, as well as participating in various events. A annual meeting of the Governing Body was held in Greenland Day 21,◯24. August. During a annual meeting, the Council encouraged Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland to work together on the research and scope of plastic in the North Atlantic, and especially its impact on the environment of the oceans. The three countries are also encouraged to work together to reduce the use of plastics and microplastics in the Western region and to aim for a full-scale test on the use of microplastics. At the same time, governments are encouraged to raise up a discussion about the damage done by international microplastics and to encourage other countries to ban its use. The Council also welcomed the declaration of the three national foreign ministers from August 22, 2016, that surveys would be the benefits of making three - sided vacation agreements between countries. The Minister's declaration is in line with the 2015 Western Council resolution and is delighted to have finally set matters straight with the three governments. Also requested that the annual meeting of the Foreign Ministers be carried out at the same time as the Western Council's annual meeting. The next annual meeting of the Western Council is held in this hall late August of the year. A meeting of the Council was held in Iceland, in Grindavik, in the days of 30,831. January. The main subject of the conference was the possibility of senators having increased influence on the affairs of the north, both within the council, towards the Commission and the international. Along with the theme conference, the Western Council held an extra year meeting and the Hoyevík Convention. There are three conclusions contained in the Western Council from a theme conference, an additional annual meeting, and a annual meeting. That conclusion is no. 1 of 2016, for support of the Western Council application for an audition for the Arctic Council, No. 2 is an analysis of the tolerance of footing Western postschool and No. 3 of the joint conference on the status of the Western countries in a new geological reality. Not all conclusions have been made at a council, but they are expected this fall. At the same time, I would like to assume that the annual meeting was agreed to support the proposal of Eygló Harðardóttir, the then welfare minister, of the Western Women's Conference in Iceland in 2016. This conference has not occurred, but I understand that these ideas are still being carried out within the Ministry. I'm glad to hear it. The arrival of democratically elected representatives of the North Sea was at the top of the council's scene, understandable. At the extra year meeting, it was adopted to interpret the invitation of the Ringboard Northway for formal cooperation with the Western Council. The Western Council has an application for an audition for an audience. We believe that it is important that the National Parliaments of the North have the potential to influence decision-making that affects the rights and interests of the inhabitants of the Western region. The audience would then help strengthen the cooperation of countries on northern issues and trust the state of the Western Council with international cooperation on the affairs of the region. I think I'll let my review finish at this time. I encourage a body of Congress to study the council report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u204	Mr. President. I'd like to include just a few aspects of the report held before the Parliament on the activities of the Western Council in 2016. The head of the Council of Iceland did well with regard to the core of the work. I have had the privilege of working with the Western Council, all of which have been very upbuilding and interesting. Our cousins, Greenlands, and Faeroetes, are returning to pick up heads. In cooperation with these nations, we will see how much we have in common, how many common interests link the nations together, and how strong we are when we use ourselves in various national conflicts, especially in those that focus on the interests of peoples of the north. North-ways have become the area in which resources are under intense pressure and other interests are involved. Therefore, it is very important that the Western nations act and wield themselves in that field and have the ability to make their voices heard. Like what? A chairman entered earlier was approved at an extra annual meeting last year to search for an audience at the North Pole. There is not yet an answer to that request, but the decision was postponed at the North Pole meeting and is still in the process, as I understand it. I believe it is important that all of those who have something to say, the representatives of the northern countries, try to let these three nations down there that they will hear and have the right to propose. It is very important to care for the interests and rights of the people of the north. We've also been participants in the Ringboard of the North. I think it's good. There are representatives from Canada, Quebec, Canada, and the Council of the Synod, as well as the Greenlandites, the Faeroe Islands, and the Icelanders. It has been found in this recent year more than once, which I consider to be very good. Last August, Qaqortq, Greenland, held a annual meeting. There is some suggestions from that annual meeting on whether a so - called post school could be established to create a better relationship between young people from three Western countries. It's a tradition for afterschool somewhere else in the North, but not in Iceland. Let's see what comes out of it. There was also a proposal to work together on the amount of plastic in the marine environment in the North Atlantic. That in itself is a very big and important matter. The severity of the problem is high, the amount of plastics that will decay only for a very long time in the marine environment of the North Atlantic. It is very important to try to prevent plastics being thrown into the water and to react to the environment and fish stocks and other threats to the plastics that are undergoing the cycle of life in the fish and other marine animals. This is dangerous for those nations and all of us, it can endanger this resource if it cannot be prevented and prevented. It was mentioned here that there was an approved meeting for women in Iceland. I think it's a very important, ambitious idea and must be carried out because more often than not, it's women who are deeply affecting the northern population with their families making decisions. I think it's time for a woman to decide what to do to strengthen a perimeter and build up the north so that they can have a future, and young people can see an opportunity to build up in those parts. I think we should take pride in representing such a conference in Iceland. It was also a joy to have a theme conference in Grindavik in January 2016, where democracy in the north was the theme and the ability of senators to influence the affairs of the north. That convention was very successful and was knocked up at the Greenland annual meeting. The work has been done ahead of the Western nations. They should continue to strengthen one another during the discussion. There must not be a democratic tail of international cooperation in the north, therefore, the voices of the nations living in the northern seas are very important, for they are the people who survive the resources that are all around them, especially in the seas and both the land and the sea. The cooperation that has been carried out in various areas in saving, health, education, and various nationalities has shown that these nations can do things by cooperation, although it has often been the reality that there have been some good suggestions when they enter and fail to succeed. But it is also our why. Congressmen sitting in each country's departments to follow up on the National Parliament that the Western Council's proposals are fulfilled in their work, according to our work. I think there's a very positive will all over the world to promote this cooperation to the benefit of all countries. Icelanders have been on the lead in this cooperation, but we are still equal in our cooperation, and each nation can do good things to establish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u205	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want the President's words corrected. The one standing here is the vice president of the Commission of Congress EFTA and the EEA this year. You should be right. In this speech, I want to speak for the report of the European Parliament Committee for EFTA and EEA before 2016. The report is presented here on 14 pages explaining the meeting of the European Parliament Committee on EFTA and the Council Committee for EFTA and EEA at the 2016 calendar year and now begins reading. The European Free Trade Agency (EFTA) and the European Economic Area (EES) play an important role as the foundation of the Icelandic foreign trade. With its involvement in the EEA, Iceland is largely the same business group as 30 other European countries, with some 500 million markets. In addition to the implementation of the EEA Convention, EFTA has built a powerful network of free trade agreements with non-EU countries or so-called third countries. The European Parliamentary Commission and the EEA on the EEA Treaty reviewed the large number of EU Types in the interior market awaiting recording of the EEA Convention; however, it was discussed with the EEA/EFTA Member States, which measures the rapid implementation of the types already adopted in the EEA Convention. The importance of recording the contract and implementation of the EEA/EFTA countries is to ensure a legal harmony in the internal market, which is one of its essential functions. The EFTA Free Trade Convention with non-EU countries, a so - called third state, was on the front schedule of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. EFTA has been on a global mission in free trade agreements, which are now 27 treatable and included in 38 countries. EFTA now has a free business with nine countries, including India, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Malaysia. In recent years, the EFTA Parliamentary Committee has loyally supported the work of EFTA vacation agreements and uses emissaries and senators visits to promote and support such agreements. The Directorate - General of Congress called on the Filipas Islands and Vietnam in this year and interviewed with the former government, members of Congress, institutions, and noncommunications stakes. The expected exits of Britain from the EU, Bfenit, were repeated during the year, both before and after the national payment in Britain on 23 June 2016. The future trade of Britain is a major interest in EFTA, the largest commercial partner in both Iceland and Norway in the EEA. The EFTA countries are keeping a close eye on the development of events and the way the British government will develop ideas for future relations with the EU at a time of 50th. The Lisbon Convention on Excretion will be applied. It was then repeated on the current U.S. Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TIP) business talks that began in July 2013. Conversations turn to markets and to the reduction and breakdown of customs, cultural rules, services transactions, investments, and public purchases. Any agreement on mutual recognition of standards or common standards will affect the order of the internal market and therefore the EEA/EFTA countries. If TITA becomes reality, three possibilities are faced, first of all, a kind of extra involvement is that TITP is not available, secondly, that EFTA makes its own vacation contract with the United States and finally the same state. There is no consistent policy for the EFTA countries with regard to TITIP but together they closely monitor with regular consultation with the European Commission and the European Commission. The direction of the new U.S. government is still unclear regarding the TTIP negotiations. Other issues that were on the edge of the European Parliament's Commission and the EEA this year include EU business policy and EU free trade agreements, policy for the implementation of EU internal markets, EU forced measures for Russia and its counter measures, EU population transport and sharing economy. A respectable president. A report by the Synod Committee EFTA and EEA for 2016 explains individual meetings. I don't think it's right to count it, but to point otherwise into threshing. 421, i.e. the report that I have now read from. That's why I'm finished with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u206	A respectable president. As chairman of the European Parliament's Council of Iceland, I am privileged to introduce to the Parliament and to the nation the report of the European Parliament from last year to last, as well as to comment on our stay at the European Parliament until now, the New Iceland Department of Iceland, which began in March of this year. Actually, we were elected in February, but we went to our first meeting in March and I'll discuss it a little later. First, I'm going to discuss the report of the European Parliament by 2016. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ At the European Parliament's field in 2016, the greatest refugee problem in Europe, the position of human rights and democracy in Turkey, and the battle of terrorism was the case. The emergency situation in Ukraine was also high - especially in Russia. The Council of Europe concluded on the European Parliament's refugee problem at each conference in 2016. At the January meeting, member countries of the European Council were encouraged to promote the Mediterranean search and rescue and to increase their support for the efforts of Greece, Italy, Serbia, and Macedonia to cope with the problem. Further, more research and measures were called for to eradicate the activities of those who smuggle people from abroad and prosecute them. During the April meeting, the Council made serious comments to the EU's refugee contract and Turkey since March 18, 2016. The agreement itself was questioned and carried out as an international law of human rights. The Greek safekeeping system would not have the ability to provide shelters properly, the preservation of inmates in the Greek islands most likely did not harmonize with the European Convention on Human Rights, and Turkey did not provide the protection required by international law. The government in Greece and Turkey was asked to ensure that international standards were fully respected by the receipt and payment of refugees and circuit workers applications. At their October meeting, the Council concluded to encourage Member States to promote the protection of non-authorized young people in Europe, both at home and through regional and international cooperation. Member States were never called to refuse unsupervised minors, in accordance with international human rights, humanitarian and refugee law. During a June meeting, the efficacy of the republics in Turkey was concluded. There was growing concern over the position of freedom of expression and media, the state of justice and human rights in the country. The Turkish government was asked to remove laws that make it criminal to insult the nation's president, the Turkish nation, its State, its institutions, or its government policy. During the past two years, some two thousand cases have been taken against journalists and scholars who are accused of insulting the president of the country for Turkish courts. The Congress also expressed concern over the vast number of Web sites that governments would have closed down as well as changes in the laws of judges and prosecutors that raised questions about national independence and the execution of the European Commission from the judicial system. The arrests of democratic elected mayors and embassies also caused anxiety as well as the consequences of long - term curfews and repeated violations of human rights in the southeastern part of the country in connection with local government action. The Congress also lamented that the Kurda issue of peace had been stopped in the summer of 2015. After a coup attempt in Turkey on July 15, 2016, at the assembly's October meeting, events were high on the agenda. Many senators expressed concern that Turkey was drifting away from the value of the European Council and severely criticized the response of the Turkish government to the attempted coup. Other members of the Parliament naturally said that the government's response was reasonable in their efforts to ensure the democracy and the legal state. At the April meeting, it was concluded that there is a great need to deal with the weaknesses in the European security systems and to promote acts against terrorism. The Congress said that the terrorist attacks in Brussels on March 22, 2016 have resulted in a partial weakness in the security systems of Belgium, the European Union and the international community and called for increased cooperation, coordination and information sharing between European law enforcement and security agencies. Like last year, Russia was involved in the Ukraine conflict, and the situation was high. In April 2014, Russia's national division was stripped of votes in the European Parliament because of Russia's access to the conflict. The situation in Russia remains stable and has not been involved in the work of the European Parliament for the past two years. During the 2016 October Summit, the Council again condemned Russia's entrance into the conflict and illegal intervention in the Crimea. Parts of the Minsk Convention were asked to implement all the terms of the agreements, including ceasefire. At the beginning of the year, Pedro Agramunt, a member of the Spain branch and a group of Christian Democrats, was elected president of the Council of Europe until one year. I'm going to allow myself to stop after the introduction of the Iceland Department report from last year to discuss only the developments that have taken place since this report was written, and especially in all these interesting and very important issues that have been discussed and discussed at the European Parliament. First, the situation in Turkey is spoken of. Turkey was discussed during the first assembly attended by the New Iceland Department, which was in April. We in the Iceland Department are actually back from that meeting. There, the European Parliament decided to restore Turkey to increased monitoring, which is involved in going to the Council of Europe. Turkey had completed its complete follow-up, with less follow-up after completion of the first monitoring procedure. But now the Council of Europe has decided to put Turkey back under increased supervision and will be monitored for the protection of citizens of this country. This gave rise to the bitter response of the Turkish Community, which went out of a meeting of the European Parliament, and it is not known exactly how it will be with continued cooperation of Turkey and the Council of Europe, at any rate the next year. Of course, this was done because of repeated and serious violations of government rights in Turkey with its own citizens and especially with teachers, judges, members, journalists, and other government officials in that country. They have made use of a so - called emergency as a reason for even persecution of their political opposers. In addition, since the writing of this report, Russia's members, particularly Russia's foreign department, have visited the Council of the Council of Europe in March. As they made exchanges with members of the Council of the European Parliament for their possible return to the work and on rights reform at the time of the situation in Ukraine. But the one standing here, though, thought that they had a bit of economic debate on the part of Russia and not necessarily in order to improve the communication between the Council of Europe and Russia. There is hope, however, when the Russians come and discuss with the Council of Europe that they will possibly, at some point, go back to cooperation with us. Finally, it must be possible that at the beginning of 2016 Pedro Agramunt, a member of Spain's Congress and a group of Christian Democrats elected president of the European Parliament until one year. However, those unprecedented events took place during the Council of April, that members of the Council of Europe expressed distrust for the president, despite the fact that the Congress does not actually have a lack of confidence in it so that it can take over the President's chair. This instigating and mistrusting declaration led to the president's putting up with the official hearings and the Council of the European Parliament's Commission to express confidence in him and to take over all authority to represent the Council of Europe, to direct meetings and, in effect, to be a spokesman for the Council of Europe. It is unprecedented in the history of the Council of Europe, it has not occurred in the 68 - year history of these organizations, and was rooted in the fact that the president stepped on to visit Syria and meets with one of the Assad of Syria on a tour there. The president has said in his defense that he went to a prison and personally as a Spanish senator, not as the president of the Council of Europe, and that he should not be considered to have done so in public office as the president of the Council of Europe. However, this visit was advertised widely as the visit of the European Parliament to Assad with the Russians and thus found a very black spot on the organization, i.e. The pan-European Parliament. So the president was no longer accepted, and he does not have the confidence of anyone or the very few members of the European Parliament for office, but he still yearns to resign, although we expect it to happen sooner than later. So I come back to the report I have from the Iceland Department last year, there are chapters on the European Parliament and the European Parliament, a general chapter. Then there is a brief chapter on the Council of Europe that I'm going to allow myself to read before the Senate before I close my speech with a brief thought about our role and purpose in the Council of Europe. This is a chapter on the European Council in general and the Council of Europe. It says, by permission of the President: The European Council's commission is to protect the core ideals for human rights, democracy and the legal state, as well as to promote economic and social progress. To that end, even the Council uses his power. The format and agreement of a binding international contract. Here we will discuss the European Convention, the European Convention Against torture, and other irreverent or inhuman treatment, the European Convention on Corruption, and more such agreements. So I continue my case here, by permission of the President: The conclusions and national conventions of the European Council have had widespread impact on the entire continent. The number of covenants of the Council in various aspects of national life is an important measure for nations that are developing democracy and justice, but the measure of the European Council also applies to other international organisations and international organisations. It features the European Convention and the European Social Convention. Since the end of the Cold War, the Council of Europe has been The key role of supporting democracies in CEE countries, including with technical assistance in the field of law and administration development and election management. The number of members of the Governing Body has increased rapidly since the Berlin Wall fell and is now 47. Montenegro is the newest member of the United States, which broke off national relations with Serbia after a national payment in May 2006 and became a member of the Council of Europe in May 2007. As a result, the European Council's countries form one unbroken geographic entity in the continent, with the exception of White Russia. The European Parliament is a representative of the 47 member states of the European Parliament. At the council, 324 agents and just as many are represented. Unlike the Council of Europe's Ministers, where each country has one vote, a number of delegates will follow the size of a nation. At the council, there are nine regular committees and five groups. At that time, the president, 20 vice presidents, presidents of regular committees and groups of members of the Council's Commission, oversees its internal affairs. The same group appoints the Parliament's board of directors, along with the heads of the departments of the country. It gathers quarterly, one week at a time, usually in January, April, June, and October. The Board of Directors meets three times between meetings. Finally, in Strasbourg, a joint committee of the Council of Ministers convened together with meetings of the European Parliament. The Council of Europe is a kind of the European Parliament's concept of politics, economics, social issues, human rights, environmental and energy, cultural and educational issues. The importance of the council is primarily that: take the initiative to conduct and direct proposals to the Ministry Committee, monitor the level of international commitments and put pressure on quick action in case of failure, and as a platform for communication and consultation between members of the Member States, thus strengthening democratic culture and building up the link between the councils. Chapter 3 deals with the European Parliament's Department of Iceland. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In the first two months of 2016, president Karl Garðarsson, head of Congress, was the future president of Vice - President Konráðsdóttir Conspiracydótttir, the Council of Independence, and the Council of Jónasson, the Bank of the Left move, a group of four members. At the same time, the barbers of Jóhanna, María Sigmundsdóttir, were the members of the Theocratic Assembly, Bruður Brynjar's Níelsson, the House of Independence, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir, the Group of the United States Congress. On March 7, 2016, Valgerður the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir took the seat Unnur Bribert's daughter, who was the principal of Brá's Unnur, and Brunsh Brastrur, the son of NíelssonBrá took his seat. Sat that Icelandic department unchanged until election 29 October 2016 A report by the European Parliament (EEC) can help us to learn more about the regular committees in which the Council of Europe, as well as about the activities of the Council of the European Parliament, which are of interest to find and encourage members, as well as members of the whole nation, to learn more about the Council of Europe, since this is a very important assembly and is, to use probe, not the European Union, to maintain it. We feel that we have to point them out repeatedly because there seems to be some confusion there. In fact, as with the European Union, following World War II, this important international agency has a very remarkable and interesting history, in order to prevent others like World War II. In that light, I'd like to say that the European Parliament and the European Parliament are among our most important partners when it comes to democracy, human rights and protection of the Court of Justice. As president of the Icelandic delegation, I cannot help but restate the importance of the work being done there. We, the Icelandic emissary, may well be able here at the end of my speech not only to contain me but also reason. paritaprevir Will Árnason and what? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has just returned from this historic assembly, where mistrust was expressed in the president of the Council of Europe. It has now been decided to appoint an independent panel to review the charges against certain members of the European Parliament on corruption, to accept bribes, and to influence the Senate report and votes on the land of Azerbaijan as well as the historical decision to put Turkey back into a so - called follow-up process. My experience with the council was that it was most interesting to meet members of the council from all parts of Europe and in fact beyond if we think of this in a clean geographical sense. It was interesting to get to know many different viewpoints and also to experience the great cooperation of all the senators there, friendship, friendship and interest in Iceland and Icelandic affairs involving human rights and equality and other important issues and was a great desire to cooperate with us. It has to be said, as it is, that these council members of the European Parliament who have previously left a deep impression and are a powerful example of how we will continue our work before the Council of Europe. They enjoy a great deal of respect among those who have sat there longer than we have because they have been diligent, professional, and objective. How grateful I am for their fine work and for my fine reputation! This makes it much easier for us to get involved and work things out. We were all given our first talks at the European Parliament, an interesting experience. In addition, he had a hard time. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter's case is on the program on academic freedom, which is a very interesting and excellent initiative for her. In addition, I was assigned a messenger for the possible war crimes of the warriors in the Islamic state. I look forward to following it, and I look forward to continuing my work at the European Parliament, which is very important. I hope we have more opportunities than one speech in the evening almost the summer day, apparently, to discuss the importance of this important assembly. But I'll finish my case here for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u207	President. Thank you for this review. I must say, I feel sorry for how little time we can get to talk about the Council of Europe in a profound way. As stated in a general summary of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, the role of the European Council is to protect the core ideals of Member States' policies on human rights, democracy and legal rights, as well as to promote economic and social progress. For this purpose, among other things, the governing body is used by means of a binding international covenant. Here is also an outstanding summary of the figures and recommendations and opinions of the Council of Europe from 2016 and I would like to know how it is handled to accept these conclusions and to recommend to this council whether the Council is not a proper place to discuss these matters and not to be the sole authority in the administration. I feel that many of these suggestions and assumptions are very important in cross - white cooperation here in the house. I'd like to ask the senator how she feels if there is no need for us to consider some of these conclusions, which are not specific, but far more extensive, here at the council. This was only discussed when we had a comparable discussion on international matters, our international and specific departments, last session, that we needed some kind of work to make sure that this is not gone. This is the first question, but I have one more question to ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u208	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who agrees with her that there is certainly a reason for the council to treat many of the conclusions, recommendations, and opinions of the Council of Europe, which are certainly far more broader than the fact that they remain in Strasbourg, where they are usually predestinated. There are many examples of this. It is very rare that something that happens in the European Parliament alone sees the ratio here in the Senate Hall and is unfortunate. Yet, that is an example. Better still, there may be a famous U.S. senator Dicks Martys' flight report on flights involved in the United States and entered secret prisons throughout the continent where the so - called U.S. prisoners were tortured and severely treated. This report had such an impact that she was able to enter this hall and also had the effect of changing legislation, both here and in other parts of the continent, when it came to ensuring what kind of passengers are on the aircraft that land on the territory of member countries and insure better than before the human rights of those who have been free of freedom from the United States. There are very few examples of conclusions, recommendations and opinions made by the European Parliament meet the most direct way into the Hall and in the event of a discussion, but this is also usually a very important matter. Granted, there are some subjects here that we could discuss. It is important that this work is benefiting more than the one that stands out there, what is being done there. But, of course, as much as possible, I will try to learn from my travels to the council by various means.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u209	President. Thanks for the answer. I know it's in good hands with a man. Senator. I would like to draw the attention of the senator, as well as of others who are listening to this, to a resolution agreed on in Strasbourg, 10, in Strasbourg. October 2016: In order to ensure an efficient follow-up of the Council's decision no. 1881 from 2012 on the appropriate tax control policies, set people up to the European Economic and Development Agency on transparency and exchange of tax data and guaranteeing the quick and efficient implementation of standards for information exchange and the automatic sharing of information on fiscal accounts for taxes. In addition, Member States were asked to see to it that their tax system is solid, transparent, and stable, set up a central registry for the real owners of enterprises, institutions and funds and should be closely cooperated with the International Bank, the United Nations and the European Commission on improving existing tax arrangements and meeting new challenges in this area. Member States were also asked to protect more funding for tax research, to promote training in tax collection studies, and to consider the need for law change in order to improve access to financial data at the early level of criminal studies. This is something I think with members of Congress here at the High Council should examine and stress tests, where we are from 2012 resolutions. I think it would be a great way to enforce some of the conclusions that have appeared at the European Parliament and other international committees calling for a report request. It is also possible to get the conclusion into English, for I am concerned that none of the conclusions and tips that we share in agreeing, even creating the way to the Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u210	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the tip and thinks that there is good reason to rush like one request to the minister to see what was done to enforce this conclusion. There is much to learn from what is taking place in the Council of Europe, and there are very broad sources of knowledge in these issues. I feel I must underline it, given the matter of which. A senator, how much we can gain from knowledge and experience in applying the expertise and the human resources found at the Council of Europe. There people are invited and prepared to help us put ourselves in all these conclusions and directives. We must not underestimate their willingness to assist us in making the best decisions and conclusions made by the Council of Europe. I think we should take advantage of that, too. Although they do not list the text to us in English, they are certainly offered and prepared to explain to us details and also to guide us in the best way of legislation in terms of money theft or deportation, or some of the things the European Council has used to acquire expertise. They have worked hard on what constitutes the best legal solution for each category, regardless of what the European Parliament or the Council of Europe has gained special knowledge. We must not underestimate the amount of resources we have in the Council of Europe. I'll get a word out of it. The senator will be encouraged and asked for a report, submit a file request, when it comes to matters about lessons that may be drawn from the Panama Canal. It'll be very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u211	A respectable president. I deliver the report of the Iceland Parliamentary Conference on North Pole before 2016. Of the issues discussed at the U.S. Senate Committee on North Pole in 2016, the Department of Iceland focused on the following points that could have been focused on. First, there is the Twelve Parliamentary Conference on North Pole, held in Ulan-Ude, Russia, 9/1111. June. Every two years, the Council members hold a conference on North Pole and held the first conference in Reykjavík in 1993. At the conferences of the Parliamentary Committee, a large group of members and specialists from governments, university institutions, and members of the international community are involved. A major subject of the Parliamentary Committee is also following up to the approval of the conference. At the Senate Conference, three main members of the committee were chosen for special discussions and reports. First of all, human life in the North and the seas were discussed. directly to sustainability and our obligation to consider future generations with responsibility and discretion towards the environment. Second, cooperation in the United Nations Climate Conference held in Paris in December 2015 was discussed. The role of the government in the north and the importance of ensuring the future of the area as its inhabitants were emphasized. Third, a discussion about new opportunities took place in the north. In the discussions and results of a report on the subject, members of the committee focused on the importance of preserving a great cultural heritage of the north and the delicate nature of the region. The Declaration of the 12th Conference of the Council of Congress directs to governments in the Arctic, the Arctic Council, and the institutions of the European Union. It is, in fact, there. calling after reviewing new ways to activate an audience of the Arctic Council in the fight against climate change and carbon emissions. It also emphasizes the need to maintain strong international cooperation in the north in order to promote continued peace and stability in the region. The representatives of the Iceland Department even laid down. emphasis on the importance of protecting the right of the people of the north to use their resources in a sustainable way, the growth of the Arctic Council, and the importance of equality in the north. Other issues that were prominent in the 2016 committee discussion include the Northern Arctic policy and Arctic tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u212	A respectable president. As head of the National Department of NATO, I plan to briefly review the 2016 Iceland Department report and read from the introduction of the report: At the NATO Council of 2016, the highest instability in the Mediterranean and North Africa, particularly in the context of the conflict in Syria, Iraq, and Libya, which have set in motion a century of refugees to neighboring areas and Europe, resulting in widespread safety threat in the Middle East. NATO's decision to support the refugee problem in the island Ocean was emphasized by the neighboring states of Syria. At the same time, the battle against terrorism was focused on over the year, and the growing impacts of terrorism, such as the Islamic state. The terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015 and in Brussels in March 2016 were still concerned with the Member States and led, among other things, to the U.S. to increase the weight of the United States and Europe combined to combat terrorism. Emphasis was put on the challenges of coping with terrorist activities organized in the Western world and its funding. At that time, the situation in Ukraine was stressed and the cold relationship between NATO and Russia after Russia's military campaigns in the country. In 2014, the NATO council's reaction to the incorporation of Russia at the Crimea was decisive and offered a unanimous vote by the Russians losing their position as an additional member state of the NATO Council. Emphasis was placed on solidarity with the people of Ukraine and on NATO to support the Ukrainian government. NATO's association with Russia has not been as bad since the Cold War as has been, and has intensified as a result of the growing Russian military intervention in Syria. However, the committee discussed the importance of conversation between the Russians and the NATO council. Discussion of the activities of NATO in Afghanistan, which is the most extensive in the history of the Community, was prominent during the year as in recent years, especially in the light of the elimination of the NATO armed forces from the country at the end of 2014. The national security forces that have taken over national security control have been successful. Nevertheless, after the departure of the multinational army, much devotion to the government in Afghanistan is needed to secure it. To cope with this, the project began in January 2015, and was to last for two years. At that time, the need for a cutoff on budgets for protection and safety was emphasized in line with the commitment of Member States. It would be necessary to increase the budget for defense, especially in order to respond to the safety threat near Europe and to strengthen the position of NATO against Russia. Furthermore, the implementation of the NATO Council and the coalition of the UN Security Council of Women, Peace, and Security was discussed. Other major issues covered in 2016 include cooperation and a policy to open up to new Member States, the Iran nuclear program, China's issues, and its impact on national security. At the same time, the NATO Council has followed up the issues that have been high in international security debates outside and within the Community and that have affected, including energy security, security information systems or Internet security, missile control, the conflict of propaganda attacks against Western communities and the importance of the solidarity of the NATO Parliament's Member States in the age of agitation and changes in geological politics and international politics. This was in the introduction of the report. In the U.S.A. Department of NATO 2016, President Egilsdóttir Eglsdóttir, a convention of the Prosecutinson, Össur Skarphéðinsson, served as vice - council members of the United States, and Birgir Ármannsson, a member of the Independence League. NATO consists of 257 members. The number of delegates is largely determined by the number of people in each country. NATO holds two meetings annually, one spring meeting, and one annual meeting in the fall. This adds up to the so - called February Summit of the NATO Council of Brussels, which is more traditional than less common. In 2016, a spring meeting was held in Tirana, and the Iceland Department attended that meeting. It was May 30. The president of the NATO Council made the meeting a special request for Black Rocks to be congratulated on their involvement in NATO, Iceland being the very first country to accept Montenegro into NATO, and they are very grateful. And then, with the report signed, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, why. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. We are on our way to the spring convention of NATO, Tiblisi, at the end of the month. I look forward to working for this Council of NATO and finishing my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-04-63.u213	V.E.G. President. I now explain the report of the International Parliament before 2016. As for most of the heads of the International Committee of Parliament, I have not been in that office for long, so here we are reporting on activities that we did not participate in, but it is necessary that in 2016, the principal members of the International Assembly of Ragnheddddótir of the Council of Independence, Daðason, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, from the Council of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly of the United States and the Birgittir Jonsdóts of Pira. The natives were the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son from Piranha, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, the House of forward Christians, and Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, the House of Independence. Arna Bang was the secretary to the Iceland Department. The report discusses both the International Parliament and the activities involved in the Iceland Department. Regarding the International Parliamentary Union, IPU, there is the possibility of being involved in the 171 National Assembly, but an increasing link to 11 regional members of Congress. As reported in the report, the IPU aims to communicate from all parts of the world on international issues, to promote international peace and cooperation, and to trust democracy and the National Assembly. Emphasis is placed on protecting human rights in the world and on the principles of democracy and Congress. That's when the IPU is working to strengthen the Congress and help with the development of democracies. The International Parliamentary Union usually holds two Parliaments a year, in the spring of one of the members of the Union and in the fall of Geneva, unless otherwise specified. In addition, the relationship between international conventions and seminars each year, often about issues that are at the top of the United Nations organization and that are often associated with the UN conference. Of the many issues discussed at the International Assembly in 2016, some are especially drawn up in the Iceland Department's report and give a fine picture of the wide variety of affairs of the International Parliament. The report refers to a discussion of the war in Syria and the serious state of humanitarian affairs there, especially in the Appó. They discussed the role of the international Parliaments and regional institutions in providing needed protection and urgent support for refugees. It was also discussed on a larger basis on the affairs of immigrants and refugees. It was also discussed and concluded in the field of IPU about terrorism and its fighting. Finally, there was a discussion on how to promote international cooperation in the UN's policy of sustainable development with special emphasis on women's developing skills. The situation as well as the status of women was further discussed in the field of IPU and agreed on women's freedoms to full involvement in politics and increased cooperation between men and women in order to achieve that goal. Of course, it is proper to remember that this situation varies greatly among the 171 members of the organization. The report also points out that during the year the issues of the 230 million children in the world that do not enjoy civil rights have been discussed. This was put under pressure to take action and the importance of both government authority and parents having information on how children can be enrolled at birth and to open up children regardless of nationality, race, religion, or otherwise status. That's not all we've been talking about. It was discussed and concluded on protection from the destruction and decline of human cultural heritage, the e - mailing of Congress, democracy, and young people, and the role of Congress in preventing the interference of non - Witnesses from the affairs of the sovereign state. There was then a debate over the struggle against human rights violations in the controversies and response of the councils. In particular, about the work of the Iceland Department, it may be appropriate to assume that the work was traditionally carried out. The Iceland Department, such as this, was active at IPU during the year, and took note of all major issues discussed in committees and councils and at the councils of the Union. The Iceland Department held four special meetings, making preparations mainly for participation in the IPU councils. The Iceland Department participated in a Norwegian team, but in average, two Norwegian hearings are held annually to review the issues of the upcoming IPU councils and to coordinate the position of the northern countries as possible. It is possible that the prefect of the North American group will move across the country. Finland served as president in 2016, and Iceland has the prehumanity in 2017. I'm not going to take a closer look at the contents of the Norwegian Summit, but they are mentioned in detail by the Committee. I just want to know that the 134th Council of IPU was conducted in 19,◯23. March 2016 in Lusaka. Fearing the U.S. Department of Iceland. In the same way, I refer to the details on the issues discussed there. The same can be said of the 135th Council of IPU, held at Geneva 23,◯27. On October 2016, this meeting was attended by Generals Einar K. Guðfinsson, president of the Generals, Ríkharðsdóttir, chairman of the Iceland Department, and Deputy Director Ásmundur Einar Einar Einarsson, as well as Arna Gerður Bang, secretary of the Committee. The report concludes with the World e-Parliament conference held in Valparaiso 28.◯30. June 2016, but Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, together with Arna Gerður Bang, attended that conference. It discussed information technology and the activities of councils. The report has a fairly detailed discussion of this, but representatives from the Iceland Department were actively involved in this work by the International Parliamentary Association. I'm finally going to guess that the conclusions and declarations of IPU during 2016 are attributed to the end of Iceland's report, which involved terrorism and the need to promote global cooperation in the fight against terrorism. The situation of the 230 million children who do not enjoy civil rights and how this situation would be solved, thought to be very serious in the 21st century. There is also the issue of President IPU's declarations at 134th C.E. of the terrorist attacks in Brussels, and from the side of the IPU, the action was severely condemned. At the 135th Council of Geneva, the following points were concluded: the war in Syria and the serious condition of humanitarianism, particularly in the Akpho, and finally on the liberty of women to full involvement in politics and increased cooperation between men and women in order to achieve that goal. As with this brief review, many topics can be discussed at the International Parliament. If I may add from my own heart, it is clear that this is an important platform for members from around the world in order to get together and discuss matters that concern everyone or anyone else. It serves to open up human eyes to differing viewpoints, different views to different cultural and political backgrounds, and it is important to promote the general development of democracies and human rights in the world. I'll be returning to the report. This will give us a detailed discussion of the issues that have been discussed. In addition to this report of the International Parliamentary Association's Department of Writings, Vice President Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter, Áluga Arna Sigbjörndóttir Pálagitir Pálagitta and Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörjörjörður.
