ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Internal Affairs requesting every request to provide a written answer for the application of this request. 337, for an outside-crowded song, of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u2	Madam President. I can't understand this other than that there's a medical emergency at Smokejanes, where the arsenic pollution from the United Silicon factory has been tested beyond the limit of the environment and to 20 times the predicted level. It has been reported in the news that Kristín Ólafsdóttir, a toxicology service at the University of Iceland, has said that there is good reason for concern over Arsenic pollution, which exceeds the limit; sesenic is oncological, air pollution, causing mainly lung cancer but also skin cancer; and there is every reason to take such contamination seriously. Reports on the treatment management committee now show that emissions from the United Silicon factory are not acutely threatened and therefore do not seem to be shut down by the factory and that the citizens of the area are not allowed to enjoy the doubt. Madam President. Is it not every reason for the Environment Minister to attend the council and inform the general public of the state of affairs? Why on earth do I need reports of evolution as important as this through the media? This is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u3	Madam President. There is reason to agree that with this team, we of the Norwegian-West District, all of us, met last night with the local authorities and representatives of local employees to discuss the serious situation there. It is not overhistory of the reports of HB Granda's plans to cut off the B-fishing process of Aranesp and to reveal up to 93 people that it is a major blow to the staff involved and to the population. But it was also encouraging to hear at the meeting that only among the Skalogs is to continue our talks with a good mind and strength at the HB Granda on the construction of the company's future position on Acquire. As a result, there is solid evidence to support the company's decision to hold back until all possibilities for the vacancy are better considered, both staff and local authorities. Madam President. In a larger context, however, this is not an isolated case. The rapid increase in pay, substantial funding of the crown, and high growths put a high number of fish productions on a large scale in many parts of the country, and it cannot be overlooked that the cost of employment over other exports is burdensome, taxing particularly on small and medium-sized fish farming companies in the country. If it is real will to trust job conditions, increase staff security and improve infrastructure, their decline must be one option.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u4	A respectable president. Last Sunday, a replay was performed on the television program The Weather Variation that paints the realities, a sad but sincere picture of a small marine village on the West. One day, the village's greeting decided to sell and go, which he does, pay his debts, and disappears away with a generous fund for his own use in another place. The residents who had worked with him were left sitting there, picking up fish on the tickets, and working for fish in the country. It's an old story and new, and in this picture, we're going to reveal the system order we want to change, but the conservatives are trying to keep our mouth shut and mouth shut. This is not only the case, but it is also Isafjörður, Þingún, Crimson, Húsavík, and Sóldell, and it is now faced with a disaster situation at Akliní, where an established factory company on the scene is upset, a company with 21,000 tons of bullfish when Granda was joined in 2004. As noted, some 100 women have been informed by HB Grandi that he intends to shut, lock, and carry off all the bodyfish. Many of the related jobs also disappear. And there's no time to lose, it's been announced yesterday and the case should be taken care of by tomorrow. These are delightful greetings. There is no thought of the survival of trusted and experienced employees. Most people don't have a job. Between the needles of HB Grandi, the importance of social responsibility. It's a community irresponsibility. This is where some other force and not the force of reason, fairness, or justice govern. The current shock of pushing citizens of the country, using a common resource, is being used. When will governments decompose and discern the destructiveness and violence of this system? This one company made more than 3 billion last year, so that's not the result, but that's not enough, the owners want more and they don't care about shame or honor. That sounds old-fashioned. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I urge the government to proceed immediately to a review of the dinner system it has promised, so that further destruction of employment and human life may be prevented far and wide across the country. Thus, peers will step up against the incontinents here at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u5	Madam President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to direct a question to why. The head of the General and Education Committee, Áslajar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, in view of a discussion that has arose over a so-called 25-year rule. As noted, regulations on how to set priorities for high school students have been in force for a long time, since it is reasonable that not all students should enter the school they choose as their first choice. However, the decision to stop paying for the last group mentioned in this Regulation was made in 2014. Students over 25 years of age, however, only in book studies. This was a political decision that led to the result, as defined by the existing data, students over 25 years of age reduced by 742 between 2014 and 2015, according to information presented in the Ministry of Education answers to queries. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. It was on TV this weekend. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty said she wanted to cancel this rule. A bright future had been sought by a government covenant that would be concluded, since these students were not offered any alternative options unless they were much more expensive than high school. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the General and Education Committee: Is it the Independence Party that stands in the way of this decision being reviewed? Has this been discussed within any body of Congress? I will rejoice with all my feelings if this decision is made to continue to ensure that all students in high school, as has been the hallmark of the Icelandic educational system and was up to 2014, despite the longer values of the requirements for high school. [[The president calls.]] I know this case well, since I signed that rule myself. Wait a minute. Hence, a senator must not be referring to the Regulation, for this is a political decision to provide funds for all students at school.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion. It is always good and important to discuss academic matters. There have been misunderstandings in the discussion that some such rule has been established, since 25 years of age and older are not denied any access to any book study in high school. Of course you're being built on, like a whale. A senator brings up the issue of priorities. A senator was a minister of education, and all that has happened since then has been sharpened on that priorities. We also look to the Norwegian states, which have a much more strict rule for 25 years in their higher schools. I think it's important to think about why and how we want to meet the needs of 25 - year - old students. Why are these students most expelled and have been gone for a long time? Yes, because, a respectable president, the school, the study, and the teaching program is designed to help people aged 16 in their early 20's and it just doesn't work for those in their 30's or 30's to sit in school with children who have just finished high school. We need to meet their needs and build a system, as it is being done, for people who want to pursue education at this age, to be more sensitive, for example. work experience and evaluate it. Now we have grown to include 600 million people in putting about 1.5 billion into the adult system that is so important to meet the needs of these students. [[The course of the Independence Party...]] I also believe that it is important that there are many advantages available to them. There are students of all ages who are working out, this is not relevant for industry and engineering. So we just need to talk about our priorities. In case of a moment. A senator feels that we should not live up to her personal priorities, so we can discuss this and probably do so. A respectable president. My opinion is that we must meet the needs of all students, and this is done by enforcing our prioritieshv. þm. Katrin, Jacob's daughter, makes the study acceptable to all age groups. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Question:...discriminate...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u7	President. Yesterday, a very good analysis of the comments was made. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksdóttir, who she dropped in Silfrina this weekend. By permission of the President: ▪ Interesting is the theory that Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, head of the House of Expansion, described in Silfrina this weekend as the reason why the polls have almost wiped out by the short period of time the company has been in charge. Hanna Katrín believes that the government's opposition has brought all emphasis on bringing up good works on the Independence Party and, of course, has emphasized the importance of making its great interests there and, in the same way, reducing the work of the other members of the administrations. Boring is the problem in which you personally have nothing. Such a problem is difficult to solve, so Hanna Katrín's theory involves several surrenders. The answer is that everyone else behaves better, but not that restoration takes a look at its role in the fast approaching global record of unpopularism. I personally feel that the reason for the unpopular groups is somewhat simpler, but it may not be quite easy to resolve the situation. The Independence Party cooperates for the first time, it is not the same with Valhalla's loyalty. As the Independence Party entered the election not only without reform but also in its own corruption with the Bjarni Benediktsson as Chairman, the challenge for a restoration and future for improvement in welfare, government, fishing control, equality, economicism, foreign affairs, and politics. The independence party is heartbroken about corruption and certainly confirmed when they chose a class with the Bjarni in the lead. Is this article very long and written by Atli Þór Fanndalur? In view of this, I'd like to ask why. A senator is exactly what we members of the government have done to glorify the Independence Party. What's the deal? A senator to respond to the distrust that has appeared in surveys recently, other than pointing his finger at someone else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u8	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I have to start by saying, in fact, I find that I find that I find it quite far off in my effort to ask ourselves in a restoration to the Independence Party when the message to me about our word post here is written by President Pirata's employee, by permission of the President's office: Birgitta Jónsdóttir wants to have a word with Birna Friðriksson about the position of restoration and BF in surveys and their response. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Clearly, it's all a trick. But to the real thing. It's right after me. My mistake, however, is that I was not complaining at all. It was just an recognition. It's like getting pulled out of traffic in the handball in the old days. I mentioned this on TV before I took in the following list of activities that have been set up on the board of directorships. I don't think the government would seriously believe that many of the government's works would be the same if it wasn't for restoration. During the first nearly 80 days of this government, representatives of the Convention, and I'm going to be able to include, set in motion a review of money policy, which will result in the year; introduce a bill that will be submitted in the autumn council that the same competitive law will apply to the Galacontracts and other companies; do not compromise the project in the seamen's strike, therefore, for the first time for seven years, set in motion by a decision-making committee, with the intention of reaching the fair price of the resource; the modified commission to re-evaluate the contract with a consumer of interest; presented as a law-emploited bill that has reached the global pressure. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, where is it?]] [[The point is, where is it?]] [[For example, we haven't seen it.]] It's on the way. Again: A four - year term, we're 80 days away, and April 1 is not here. Then we've set out and are directing the cooperation of state and rural society in the capital area to a strategy to address the supply problem of housing. All of these matters are handled under the guidance of public interests. All of them were on the board of the campaign... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u9	...especially to drag the chariot of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u10	[[The president calls.]] Other than...? You've been enjoying it forever, so I answer now, and all you can do is just go to the media discussion, always asking us to the Independence Party as a little brother, as a little powerless party, that we've come to him and so on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You must know the words because you must be one of the organized people. [[The president calls.]] But that's the way it is. And in short, it's restoration, and I'm Hanna Katrín.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u11	The president has to reiterate that members of the Parliament are obliged to respect the talk period presented here. It cannot be customary in the Algill's public talk program to start a new discussion when the time has passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u12	A respectable president. I'm gonna hit a little lighter strings here. The Senate's work is, in my opinion, the most interesting part of the program at council meetings. In the morning. 8 Parliamentaries compete to get to the speaker's list, although only one is expected to make it. If senators check in after two minutes to nine, sometimes it is too late. Here, councilmen will have two minutes to express themselves about whatever is on their minds. Today, I would like to use my two minutes to draw attention to the fact that Sveinn Áki Lúðvíksson was giving up his job as director of the Intensive Association, a job he's performed since 1996. Sveinn has Áki disabled people and their affairs with ambition, respect, tolerance, and fellow feeling, a work he has performed since 1996. I don't know Sveinn Áki, and I never met him, but I was moved last night by news of his retirement. Perhaps it was the only story that touched my heart. During an interview at RUSH, he said that in recent decades people did not realize how great an achievement had been accomplished in connection with the sports of the disabled. He also said that he had developed a lot of work to do with disabled persons. That message is important. Within the bright future, it is our vision that in Iceland, the state of Iceland has an eternal and steady respect for the diversity of lives, with some being gay and that all individuals, whether physically, socially, or spiritually barriers, have the potential for independent life, with dignity, and are helped if necessary. While it is not necessarily my job to thank Sveinn Áki publicly for his work at an important point, I still believe that it is our job to stop, praise, and thank those whom it deserves in our community. That is certainly true in the case of Sveinn Áki and others who serve as he does.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u13	Madam President. The management forces are still turning out, now what they're doing. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. The difference between the government and the previous one was that all who wanted to make room in high schools, but the second dropped the money and reduced the number of places that forced schools to reject those 25 years of age and older. These policies were effective, the number of students was immediately reduced by 40% from year to year. Students were referred to as private schools that run primary divisions and multiplied their costs. You see, the government pays the same amount for students in full - time studies in private schools and students in high school. This can only be read from a new follow-up report. So it does not save any money but causes fewer students to study. The population of the country's population is also more sensitive to mass restrictions and especially to women. I asked the highest. Secretary of education to this 25-year rule. He was the hair that eel, turned out and pointed like a dog. Senator for some kind of regulations. Evolution, however, speaks for itself, and more money is needed. I know that it is now in the preparation of a synopsis that descends from this injustice, and I believe that the entire government situation will take care of that matter. And now I've heard what. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty described the same viewpoints, so there is a chance that there is more to this good transformation here at the council. That's why I'm asking. A senator, a schoolmaster, and an unsatisfactory student on school matters, Gunnarsdóttir: Won't she help us and support a political arrangement that ensures that everyone gets into public high school?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u14	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank my partner from the Northeast standard, please. Einarsson Logi Morison, for this request. Now, as a full - time teacher, I know the field well for 13 years. I took my time, in 2012, to command from the then Supreme Court. Secretary of education on priorities into schools. I ask myself, " What was the purpose of the priorities set by a Regulation? ' At that time, did the minister of education sign his own? What is being done now is only under the control of this Regulation. There are no rules, and the schools are responsible for checking in, each school. [[Up front.]] I don't know that large numbers of students over 25 were forbidden to enter high school. But that's how it is, and it's only very normal, that when you're sorting into high school - and it's not about money, it's also about space in your schools. I'm going to let me read up on the priorities of the day. A minister of education arrived in 2012. It shows that first - priority students, including students under 18 years of age, will be able to keep their school rules in other ways. Then students come to the disabled. Third, students who graduate from elementary school arrive in the spring before the start. [[The president calls.]] I can go on like this. The topic of education can be read on what priorities it is. [[The president calls.]] She's with people, that's right. [[The president calls.]] I suppose the highest. A minister of education back then had a priority in this priority. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u15	A respectable president. I changed the subject completely, I was going to discuss the Environment Minister and his alibi yesterday, but in view of the fact that this is about a 25-year rule in high school, I must declare that I am full of things that have been said here. I'm afraid of the ignorance I have. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir has shown that she has an Icelandic high school system, that attending school with younger students is not appropriate for people in her 30's or 30's. What a load of shit. The one standing here has been teaching three high schools for 18 years. Two of them were trade schools, engineering schools, one in sheep's jar, and the other in Akureyri. [[For example: There is something else in trade school.]] I taught students history, German, and Icelandic. The best students were women and men over 25. In some cases, they were women who were in their place of life that children stopped using diapers and other diapers, came to school, perhaps become some of their own and self - sufficient; they entered the schools, and learned on books courses what they wanted to learn. The same was true of the male coin. In fact, some of them were often in trade, but not always. Many of them were on book studies. In my conversation with the assistant head of the School of Education in Akureyri, and I make it known that I have his permission to quote him here, it was stated that students were expelled from the Congregation Book Study in Akureyri because they were 25 years old. Period. It's annoying. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u16	Madam President. There are serious reports from Aranesp that more than 100 people lose their job in the bullfish industry there. HB Grandi has been running companies there in the past few years, but the roots of that company range from 1906. There are people who have been involved in building up this company over the years, and they look at it as a cry that they're all laid off and they're headed for unemployment. Of course, it's not acceptable to these people, who have created the profit of an enterprise such as HB Grandi has been shaving into themselves in recent years. The company has gained over 40 billion in recent years, and last year, the company profited more than 3 billion and paid to its owners less than 2 billion. This company now feels that it is possible to say just goodbye to these people, put them out on God and seared, and leave the community in wounds, a community that has sought to build a good position for this company that has intended to have a powerful bodyfish processing and another kind of future development. This is the way it is, and humans cannot forever say that it is not at fault with the cry - for - saying system. The code system acts like a blood clot that blows all over the community. One day it's Flatus, the second day of Thyatira, and then it's the Cape of the West, the Islands of the West, the Aquilin - no one knows where that clot will happen next. Then come a man, like a whisk. paritaprevir Toil Björn Einarsson, and talk about lowering the hunting fees of Granda, that you need to respond and reduce the hunting costs of Granda. What kind of joke is it talking about this in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u17	Billions pay up ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u18	[[The president calls.]] And billions of dollars ahead. I think the government has to face that the quota system has created the security of a class that works around the sea, and that's not acceptable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u19	A respectable president. We spoke for the construction of United Silicon in Helguvík, celebrating 500 million. K. An investment agreement with the company in April 2014 believed the company's promises of a wide range of paid jobs, a good deal of agreement with law and order. We're shocked. Transgression problems, imperfect factorys, and broken promises in the reward of signs of the start of the operation. The investment agreement ensured a maximum of 15% income taxation, 50% registrar of total insurance, 50% of property tax 50% less than the limit of the maximum share rate, the currency share ratio 30% lower than the standard tax of Smokejanestown. At that time, the Society has the right to provide training for employees, a total of 2 million euro, or a total of 700 million in total support. A respectable president. I'm one of those people who agreed to do this. By paying the price, the company has a considerable advantage in the labour market. But how is it new? Instead of the international treaties, United Silicon pays $1470 by his employees. every 2 hours as a day's work or under a minimum full-time income and 2,646 bucks. in overtime, 16 hours daily, or 80% of the baseline scale below the income limit. To get up for a minimum day's work, the company pays 65 you. K. a day's work per month. Then the company puts up a work plan with employees living for 12 hours. They don't put on normal shifts, because then the company has to negotiate with the unions for a shift program requiring higher pay. By this pay program, United Silicon pays 450 of his employees. K. in a month, but a comparable salary is 600-◯700 you. K. ... inlamps. As a senator, I'd like to apologize to the nation for paying the street of a company that has received hundreds of millions of dollars of dollars to pay the taxpayers to build a business but pays their employees a salary based on a pay that is based on a subsidies in the country. [[The president calls.]] Then the company has little or no control over this pollution from the company's company in Helguvík, is involved in all sorts of cases with the labor industry, the company and the community and neither working with nor for society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A company that thus treats its employees, their community, and the environment in an effort to make promises has no bright future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u20	Once again, the president wants my what? Councilmen say that when the red light starts here in the hole, there is time given. The speaker passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u21	A respectable president. I want to talk here about the proposed HB Granda resolutions on Aranesp. Yesterday, a meeting was held with members of the Norwegian-West District, the town government, and the Work People's Association on the Taken side. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. Thank you so much for how fast people responded to meeting at that meeting. We're only discussing this case at the council. I come up here and wish that not only will this meeting be held but it will also be held within the council. I would like to encourage the chairman of a legal committee, one of the council members of the district, to discuss the matter. This is a call to reduce the cost of the seabed, which I post, of course, a question mark. It is also talking in general about the whole dinner system. So I'd like to encourage them. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, president of the professional committee, to investigate this matter. If that's the main reason why this is happening, it's very important to go over it. However, I am deeply concerned that this is not only related to this company or its decision to business, but it is able to reflect the success development that we discuss below and the more difficult position of the exports, which is when we are talking about something much greater. I worked for a fishing business before a crash, a business that was in big trouble, especially as a result of success development. It is very important that we consider our exports, and we might not be able to apply the basic elements in our community. [[The president calls.]] It's the export branches. [[The president calls.]] We will discuss this further in our day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u22	A respectable president. In unsupervised inquiries yesterday asked why. Þórunn It's Egilsdóttir Healthcare Minister on Health Care and Patient Remuneration policies The minister said, with the permission of the president: I have served as a minister for over two months, and I have been working for financial purposes for 2017, approved by the International Assembly before this government began. At this point, a panel of council ministers helped to repair the health - care problems they were having. One of Pirata's campaign campaigns was restored in the medical system. With that attitude, we took on the financial work. It became clear immediately that there was no sound basis for Pirata's ideas among the majority groups, including a higher level of legalization for health care. There the support of the Bears future would have been well held, for its election emphasis was also the restoration of the health system. For that reason, I'd like to have a place to say. The chairman of the Council of Birts, Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir, who served on a budget in December. when the budget is at its highest. The health ministers complained about it. Now I know what the focus of the bright future was on the committee. I have to say, if the emphasis had been made, it would have been the highest. Ministers of health for even worse financial matters. So I'd like to pray. The chairman of a United States Parliament's Council for the Future and the Committee on Fundament Committee to inform us about the emphasis, or rather, the lack of the focus of the category in budgetary legislation, in December 2000. V.E.G. You see, a health minister cannot blame anyone but his own party, and he prefers to thank the Porta for fighting for what was achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u23	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator before an opportunity to relate my experiences to a budget board for Christmas under unusual circumstances. The challenge and aim were to achieve a mutual and content of the budgetary work, and they stressed that the new proposals would go along well with an election campaign, and, in my opinion, it was successful. At the beginning there were skys and seas, and I didn't like going into a huge increase in expenses because it's my vision that we shouldn't do a corner every time a new government takes over. It creates imbalances, fluctuations, collapses, and conditions, as we can see on Aranesp. I don't believe in corners. The communities don't do that. It goes by at least years until it really affects them. It's my vision, and my vision rhymes with the aims of a financial strategy that is related to policy-makers and financial programmes in a more efficient way. A changed practice that will be pursued as I rejoice calls for a new approach to other fixed committees. In order to ensure good work practices and quality, the Parliament intends for an education that I feel is necessary to mention in this context of a policy strategy for members of Congress. As indicated in my opinion of the committee, it is very clear, the focus of the future in the bill is on dealing with emergency health problems. The senators had to agree on compromises and look to where the shoe most squeezed and to take immediate action. I believe this has worked, and I'm happy with the results in this situation. To reiterate it, a bright future wants plans for the future, not to react when it comes to it. We need to apply that practice. We want to stop suddenly facing huge problems that seem insoluble. We want to see them coming. Thus and only then will we take full responsibility for national economic control.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u24	Madam President. I'm sorry I haven't been quite available. But I thank you for this discussion and thanks for the time being. Minister for taking her. I think it is very important that the Council be involved in discussing the challenging circumstances in the country. For most of the past few years, the development has been practical for us Icelanders. We're in the seventh year of economic growth. During the past two years, the growth of tourism has been greatly improved in the business industry and in its adventurous growth. There is also the addition of influxs due to increased foreign investments in the economy. As such, e.g. Foreigners increase their share at the Stock Hall by 17 billion each year. So much is this currency charge that in spite of 100 billion angles in goods last year, there's a nice amount of business left in all the countries. Then some may ask, " Isn't everything all right? ' Is there any reason to worry about anything? Is it not only to see the feast, as was once said in these sales? That's what I'm talking about. If history has taught us something, or should have done, it is trying to see in advance and before it is too late to act if there is an imbalance in the economy. Governments have been used for three consecutive years to counteract stability and increase expansion. In 2015 and 2016, mainly on the income side, i.e. The state has reduced its income resources to a greater extent. In 2017, the year of this year, some of it is also relaxed on the expense side. The Icelandic crown has increased by about a year. 35% towardssterling and more than 20% towards euro and the long way it goes to a dollar in the past two years. At the same time, there have been significant pay increases and interest rates here some of the tallest of the population. The target export environment is therefore radically altered. If this trend continues, it will have a high impact. Smaller and medium-sized fishing companies, smaller tourism companies, especially those in the country, with seasonal management, sceptical, technical, and knowledge companies, those who will not react to the situation with their feet and leave the country, see in a period of two years the amount of income in foreign currency is generated and the expenditures in kronons. Of course, the most serious thing is if there is an imbalance in the economy that eventually was severely corrected at the expense of the public and the general biographers in the country. It is our primary obligation not to rush asleep, as it was so often in some similar situation until the public finally suffers a severe impact. As a result, and with this introduction, I would like to direct the following questions to the highest level. Minister: In view of the high concentrations of the kroner in the recent stages, how does the minister of the situation evaluate the survival of exports? Has the government assessed the desirable success of the crown in terms of the competitive export and balance of the economy? If so, where is the equilibrium of the kroner's current gang? Have governments been able to discern the implications of the individual factors that have the basis for the recent funding of the crown, such as influx from the increased interests of foreign people, the movement associated with decommissionation, the growth of tourism, etc.? Has the government evaluated the likely impact of the current strong gang of the crown, I don't talk about if it continues to grow, on small and medium-sized seas and tourism companies, technology and knowledge companies, sceptical companies and innovations? I'm particularly concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises because, of course, the effects are general, it is possible for companies to react to them and meet them considerably bound to their size and financial strengths. And finally: What measures do the Minister consider to be available to prepare economic and economic stability which ensure the public's interests and, at the same time, the export work is an acceptable competitive setting? Are such measures in preparation? I would like to get the minister's distinct ideas here, such as if they could break down some of the growth of tourism, otherwise apply the government's terms, what's the highest opinion. The Minister has a growth policy in this context, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u25	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon takes the initiative for a very important discussion of gang development and the delivery of exports. Most likely this is the most difficult problem in the economy that the nation has with this loss. A floating dollar is a two - edged sword. A lot of money adds to the public's financial resources, but it weakens the competitiveness of companies who compete in the international market. Similarly, low - dollar export work helps but narrows away the favors of those who receive their salary in dollars. In May 2016, based on data from the end of 2015, the second bank evaluated a balance trial and thought that it was in the case of a gang count of 89. However, the real world is just below 100. In the latest edition of money, we find the view that the balance service has increased, not how much. On the other hand, it is clear that the real success of the crown is very difficult for many of its exports, and we see in these days its consequences for the recovery of a major construction company, HB Granda, which points to the strong gangs of the Crown to explain reorganization of the business. It is known that the crown's strength at the same time when the British pound gangs are ill is very difficult for the bullfishing. The smaller groups in the fishing road are particularly sensitive to this success rate, and many of these are fighting on the banks. In general, fishing will not increase and they will not control markets. In addition to exports, the scholarship has an impact on national import-separated articles. The crown's gang increased almost continuously from the last summer until December. It reflected largely the currency flows due to growth in foreign trades, increased exports in transport services, and improved business sectors. On the other hand, from the beginning of December, people have been swinging. It was probably reduced first due to a reduction in the number of seamen strike incomes at the same time as seasonal subsidies from tourism and related articles at the beginning of the year. Explosion of funds for the investments of pension funds may be involved. Walking was strengthened again by about Which the strike was dissolved, and then fell sick about 3 to 44% after the head was lifted. The economic output, however, has not been significant so far. Regarding the subsidies, it should be reported that in a conference held by the Department of finance experts from labour markets and financial companies, the balance has had a negative impact on many articles. Small and young companies that are about to establish themselves are particularly susceptible to this support. This has been called the Dutch flu. During the 1960's and 1970's, the Dutch experienced a marked rise in oil and gas generation in terms of economic development in terms of significant growth of the hemorrhoids. As a result, other export roads failed to cope with the situation and lost a lot of energy. What can be done? Been taken away. A money - dating committee or a financial agency has been established with the aim of offering suggestions for continued success. Governments are looking through the pension fund and other experts how and how quickly the funds can be added abroad. The Parliament's financial policy allows for economic management, which should work against the expansion and thus the strength of the gangs. Madam President. The most effective operation to lower the level of the crown's gang would undoubtedly be a reduction in the interest of the Huns Bank. With lower interest within the country, investors, especially pension funds, would be encouraged to look beyond the landstones, as well as those investments would spread the risks of funding. Residents, one category, spoke of the money before the election in the fall - this is not a comedy - and gave ideas about currency. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is a solution that needs special consideration. The objective is clear, large degrees of gang swings, and high interest levels are damaging to society. Unfortunately, there are no quick solutions in this matter. Money policy needs to be followed in terms of government discipline. Actions need to be thought - about, general, and long - term. The government has in its two-and-a-half months taken measures to strengthen the competition of the Icelandic industry and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u26	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion. This is a very important thing. The currency's price is, and there will be concern until it is agreed upon by the currency, which will be of benefit to the future. Fade damages everyone except those who are struggling with the situation and immigrants whom immigrants should be able to draw some sort of conclusion together as to where it would be desirable to have walked. As we have seen, vast numbers of successes have a bad effect on the export industry. A dramatic decrease or failure, as we have seen in the past, also has a detrimental effect on the public and import branches. And Iceland's money policy is actually the root cause of the problem. A money policy that goes on ignoring economic truths as few as it is today is just not good. The late bank tries its own way, and the gang hasn't worked very well. There'll be other criteria in this. I completely agree with the highest. Secretary of finance to reduce operating growth is one of the key elements there. The third angle in this triangle is production. We cannot increase the amount of money in traffic and thus level out without increasing inflation, unless, of course, we use extra funds to increase production capacity. It's not gonna be explained in the few seconds I have left, but we have to work on this discussion in the way the real world is going to turn. Clearly, we can't really help the companies in the export industry by taking seriously the money policy. We can't solve this unless we solve it right away. We cannot be waiting for the results of the Committee on Money Policy. [[The president calls.]] This is today's problem. We need to solve it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u27	Madam President. I'll share my concerns with a advocate, okay? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, on this development, i.e. the impact of this gang development on export roads. Of course, a 25%, 35% increase in the dollar is more than that of the industry. I also agree with what was presented in the case of the highest court. Of course, the secretary of finance that what may be achieved or corrected for this situation in the near future is primarily a decrease in growth and a change in the incomprehensible waxotian Surple Bank. In fact, he has finally made it possible to say that in order to reduce the pressure on the dollar, as well as that recent emissions should lead to greater incentive for the pensions, if growth reduction comes in order to find another way with the money, it should also reduce the pressure on the crown, even though other clues may now be more likely to grow. Of course, in this regard we are victims of our own success. Because this also came up with the discussion that was earlier on Granda and the actions that have existed in Skaga, I think people have to consider what has happened in the bodyfish industry during the last eight years. If we combine the effect, the effect of the strike to reduce yields and pay ratios, then the trend has been that within a few months, the pay rate in body fish processing has increased from an average of 15% to over 30%. [[The president calls.]] during e.g. the pay ratio for the reduction and cryo-conservation of the contaminants is 5◯8%. [[The president calls.]] This must be kept in mind when we begin to examine this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for starting this discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. But I have to use this opportunity and correct the Minister, and it's clear that we're a lot of people who are very interested in gang development, and this is one of the projects the last government was particularly concerned about. There are at least two devices that are going to matter and that have already mattered, i.e. On the one hand, laws that were adopted on wax trade and then accept new laws of April 1 in favor of mortgage loans to consumers, where two new national response devices have been called after. I think it is, as the Minister passed through, that there will be a very rapid work on the minister's committee to the development of money policy. The framer has talked about his viewpoint and has called it an inflation goal plus. I would like to use this opportunity to discuss it, and get some details from the minister how he sees how there can be an application of currency advice, and especially when you look to examples like in Singapore, a small country that is primarily built on export. It is very interesting to see how they have taken even further steps than the late bat here has been speaking for, they have left behind their inflation goals and have gone completely to a global goal with a degree of space, as the minister suggested the need to be there to maintain stability toward the homes of the country. These are big questions. This is what we simply need to keep working together. [[The president calls.]] I strongly urge a minister to get suggestions from his group so that we can go along with the necessary legal adjustments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u29	Madam President. Restoration was not the only group that spoke of the pre-election money. But was he not the first group to run away from his language, or was he not established because of an issue with the Independence Party on Money? Hv. A senator gives us some important questions that will help us into the new reality of the economy. Let us be sure that the crown's strong position brings ill results to the sector, which, of course, plays a role in this high gang. Madam President. What would be more intelligent for a giant who is so tall that he is well - fed by the clouds and desires to examine the human life, to bend slowly, or to cut off his feet at the knees? It would likely have been best for him to have been given hormones during his childhood, which would have diminished his growth. I don't think we've been here to mention a tax discount on the tourism service without all that being wrong. Tourists should have been raised when the article was hot enough to carry it, but they lived with a much lower gang. Nothing has been done, it grows over other branches, even removing them. And now it is more difficult to put a spell on the article that lives with this high gang. Another aspect turns to the public as a result of the collapse and the fall of the crown had to take on a tremendous challenge in order to save the exports and finally see to a much better time with great success. This does not mean much justice in the reinvigoration of the public so that the export branches will continue to heal. But this is a difficult question: Is it really to be controlled by politicians from month to month, what gang of the Crown is in and what pocket it lands in? It is an arrangement that we alone cannot accept. We need to find other ways to get rid of the fluctuations, or we'll lose the growth point from the economy, the knowledge and innovations, from land.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u30	Madam President. I want to thank the advert for the discussion. It's urgent and needed, and it's about one of the basics of the economy, which is money policy. Wherever we stand in politics, it is clear that we need to have a balanced discussion about Iceland's future money policy. There must be serious action for the future policy development. We need a money policy that is not merely about inflation goals but about a long-term plan and even more discipline in the economy, a money policy that is not about short-term solutions, but about protecting the Icelandic economy from tragedy and fluctuations that always end up in public and in its terms. Our economy is driven by resources and exports, preferably fishing, energy farming, and tourism. The export price of Iceland increased by 17% in 2014-2016, relative to the export price of major commerce. This growth is driven by tremendous growth in tourism, which grew by 44% a year and has been rising well over four times since 2010. The tremendous growth has been the result of other exports, including those in the United States. press up the tunnel. One way to meet gang swings is to follow Norwegian example and set up here a resource fund, which may include it would be a fluctuate. The concept of resource treasure is not new in this country, and it was well balanced to the left government's drawing board in 2009-2013, and I do not see better than the ideas of a swinging stability fund are in fact, in the Treaty of the current government. I'd love to hear from the highest. Secretary of finance where the establishment of a stability fund is. Could he tore up his idea of it? Is there any further action in the water at the highest level? The secretary of finance to establish more economic and gang level, because it takes action, not just to rely on automatic fluctuation? Madam President. Clearly, too much tension and fluctuations in the economy are useful to the people with the most valuable possessions and stocks. It's not the majority of the nation, it's at 10% of Iceland's 64% of all assets. [[The president calls.]] This largest and wealthiest group profites from the downturns of the gang and is the group that profites from the rumblings because they always have money to put aside and take fruit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u31	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. a voter for this initiative. Of course, this discussion is long in time. In my opinion, one of the biggest projects in this terms is not to be surprised at the problem with the crown. We know that the dollar is like a crow, but we know the history of a crow and, of course, know how unmannerly the dollar is. Of course, we could have said: " We should have been prepared for this. ' Politicians may not have wanted to face this subject and rather have little medicine, but now they are no longer doing it. That is why I believe that the task given to a financial conference will be done rapidly and that proposals will be turned toward the root of the problem of money policy. It is not available for this committee to submit proposals for the same condition. What are we gonna do? We're supposed to work on a long-term solution. We must not get stuck in tire tracks of small-dose healings. We must naturally face a very bitter situation in many smaller projects, construction companies in many parts of the country, but most important today, in the case of Skaga. Of course, we are to appeal to social responsibility, but neither can we hide behind the pavilion in making decisions involving an entire community. The most important thing for the exports is that we have to secure our companies, we have to secure the consumers, we have to secure a lot more stable environments than we do now. In that way, we can avoid disaster, even as it is now taking place. Up on Skaga. We can also see this in some respects in travel services. Therefore, our biggest job in the politicians is to deal with this problem right away, not to offer suggestions that are both old - fashioned and really do nothing but put on a short - term patch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u32	President. These matters have been discussed in the Assembly Hall for a very long time. It's a good thing that a money conference has been established, but I think it's a little boring that this committee was set up without consulting the smaller section. It means that it takes longer to get what comes from that committee through this council because the party should have some sort of escape because it was not allowed to sit down at the table. I find it very boring that the government, which was partly based on the expectations of greater cooperation, more transparency, different practice, starts by showing us in the smaller part of the finger of this decision. Once, we had a very strong crown, I remember that. I remember it was $80 in return. Suddenly she became very ill -- she became very ill in a short time -- and you can't invite people who are involved in such an import and export. So I want to challenge the highest. The secretary of finance to have a second approach to major future operations and to keep the promises that were made in favor of the election of different practices, and to show them freely so that we can handle large issues that concern everyone rather than just chosen smaller things that claim to be more things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u33	Mr. President. It is true that many competitive companies are now dealing with problems in exports due to the strong gangs of the crown. I hope, though, that we can all agree here in this hall that it would be foolish to consider putting an extra spell on these branches, seaways, and tourism, in a way that is sometimes spoken from a talk chair. We're witnessing a complete reversal of Icelandic economy, in Icelandic commercial life. During the past year, service balance was a positive factor of 260 billion. In the past four years, it has been positive about 740 billion, which is similar or slightly lower than the rate estimated this year. That's a lot of money. This is why a dollar has been getting stronger and has caused problems for the people we discuss here. However, we cannot approach the subject in that way and talk about the subject as if a dollar is the only currency in the world that will swing. The Euro does, the dollar, the pound, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u34	I like putting...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u35	Well, that, we'll probably do that sometime, but it's clear that we need to reevaluate our money policy, that's right. It is wrong that the SERVANT has one objective, an inflation goal. This is supposed to be a success aim, and the Councilman has never had such opportunities to ensure that there is no other success objective here. The financial balance is the third goal the Council is to work on, as well as on the Secret Bank to ensure that the interest gap between Iceland and major customers is not unusually high today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u36	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u37	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank you. The advocate of this discussion and the Minister for giving an answer. There's a bit of a special discussion in that way that old acquaintances play around here, if you don't mind me saying that. There is some incredible belief in magic solutions to Europeans, especially in the left men, and in a restoration that is probably not a left category, but a right category. [[Up front.]] It's very interesting to hear that. Then it says the highest. Minister that exorbitant was the only group that ever talked about money in the process of campaigning. I think he's also the only secretary in the world, at least in Western Europe, talking down his own currency. It's quite remarkable to do it at the same time. It is true, however, that interest rates need to be reduced, and I think we all agree, that we need to review the financial policies of the National Bank. We agree on that. It's only been entered the Granda. I'm not gonna spend a lot of time on it here, however, it's a case that we all hope to take over and shoulder responsibility there. Secretary of finance is talking about the economy to counteract the crown's funding. I look forward to seeing that economy. I look forward to seeing what the Minister is going to do. On the other hand, I would like to ask the minister if there are any options to slow down or even delay certain projects, and then, for example, I am involved in projects at the Leifs station where Isavia seems to think that the company is independent of other projects in the country, whereas tens of millions or a hundred billion projects there, of course, affect other projects in the country and thus risk of filing. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on this. Then I have to say, it is, of course, absolutely amazing to hear that here speaks the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers saying we can't use low-dose healings. As far as I can see, the EU is in my eyes at the highest. Ministers, as well as most of them, in the great category of acidification, despite the fact that we've seen Europe burning between the letters because of this euro - and still no one I remember pointed out that we'd been better off with Euro 2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It is costly for the nation to maintain the least independent currency in the world. The only evidence offered to keep it is that with the crown, it is possible to cut down and reduce the approval of employees without making any deals with it. This cannot be considered an option for the common people, but it is fine for some companies and politicians who can hide their mistakes by failing. If we're going to be well in the future, we're going to need more cooperation in Iceland at a international level and a more stable environment for a wide range of activities. There are enormous interests. We have sailed in turmoil because of the crown that leads us up to the highest hills and back to the valley of the waves. This will not only affect business ventures but also affect homes that need to carry the cost of high interest and insurance. It is difficult to visualize a healthy development of a wide range of employment with international connections that are sought for a powerful and well - educated young person in the natural environment of the world. A nation that sees a standard of employment and cannot create situations for their young people's challenging assignments is in great trouble. With the crown as a currency, it is likely to be the same for young people as for knowledge companies, that they prefer to grow in other countries. It is the prospect of the future that will not be a delight. A game of growth, inflation, and gangfare would be otherwise spent in euro than with a dollar. The growing conditions of the enterprise, especially in new employment sectors, and the future prospects for young people in this country are improving. It's like they want to grow in Iceland. To keep these possibilities open, we need to complete membership discussions with the European Union and bear the conclusions of the nation. To cut down or weaken it manually, so that exports and tourism are more successful than the benefit of the public in terms of deterioration, is no more than a drevacing of the state which is persistent and unacceptable by the Icelandic kroner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u39	Mr. President. A minister made an excellent approach here, but I am literally no closer as to whether something is coming in the near future. Governments. It's no good to refer to the voter's lawsuit. This is the Chairman of the Forest. Financial and economic ministers, he's a member of the government. It is reasonable that he is required to predict what the government will expect over the next weeks and months in these matters. It's not just a matter of life for exports that there's a balance here in the economy and a realistic registration of the crown's gang. It has always proved to be one of the most dramatic things for the public in the country, for we know from long and bitter experience who will always carry the expense of an imbalance and then severely correct the costs of public biographers. I must say, I am deeply concerned about the situation, as well as with the answers of a minister here or with the language of more members of Congress. I think a debate about euro and a crown or a coin or something like that at some point in the future is not a subject for today's discussion. [["No, let's just talk about...]] We are here, and now we have the tools we have for the management of our hands. There is no answer to indicate that it might somehow be better and at some point in a rosy future. What will you have done until you're going to float down to bed? Unsurpassed losses in this country have been brought up by two factors; one because the dollar has been in a continuous supply phase and the other because we have brought in prices and prices in the form of low oil prices and low raw prices and the lax in the economy in business countries. What are we going to do if it's about to turn around? If oil prices start to rise? If raw prices begin to rise, and instead of being reversed, will we import in inflation if possible? If so, we would have the high interest shown. [[The president calls.]] It wouldn't be very painful, then, if it should still raise them. [[The president calls.]] I think you have to take this situation very seriously. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. A government to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate my gratitude for a verbal vendetta. I think this case, which has been discussed today, is the most serious case in Iceland now. We will not resolve this with the shouts. Rather, we must use careful management. Hv. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir asks me for a coin plan. One essential requirement is to have a large reserve, as we do now. The premise for continued intervention is that the currency supply is reduced and will be slightly reduced now that parts of the snow hanger are paid out, but these are issues that obviously need to be taken care of. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfjordsdóttir said that there would be mood swings on the public, and that's exactly right. It is unacceptable for all the public to have to live with these fluctuations in a currency. Stability Fund is in preparation. But I don't expect him to start his work until maybe two or three years, but it's being prepared. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson asks for projects with Istavia. He is correct in saying that one of the things we need to consider are being carried out by government companies. Isa had ideas of projects of 40 billion a year, they were down to 25 billion, but I talked to the chairman of a government less than a week ago, and now it's a total of 101⁄215 billion. I'm putting a lot of emphasis on how to do this. You're right. A saying, it's important. Actually, my motive was only the entrance to what should come, but we all have to come together. We're all in the same boat.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u41	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the budget board on financial policy, on the deck. 427 on terms of approval of financial policy in 2017/2022. As a result of the introduction of a new legal law on public finance, the General Assembly's discussion of public finances became support, in fact, three. A national budget that we'll discuss later at the council, then it's a financial policy and, finally, a budget. It is important to understand the context of these three pillars and their respective roles. The budget is adopted at the beginning of each terms. This is important to bear in mind. In fact, the laws of the law are in a way that is not expected to be adopted or changed at any given time unless there is a major economic impact or unexpected situation. I'm sure Iceland's had a lot of tragedy. It may be said that such is more of a country than is desirable. We all know such traumas, and perhaps our problem with economic management is largely based on the need for us to live with our use of natural resources that can be very thin. Then I'd like to mention another major reason why it's possible to adopt financial policy, but that's if government transitions without an election in the meantime. We have the economy, which is largely determined by the use of our land's natural resources to sea and rural areas. It requires that we bear in mind that this will not help us to avoid making decisions that are both responsible and realistic. Realistically, we need to remember that in longer-term policy policies there must be responsibility and that we do not fantasize with our activities, with the result that we here may encounter events that will be mainly caused by our own, or irresponsible economic government, such as by an unlimited spending expenditure which will be long-term insurmountable, that the government's income aim will not be to damage the possibility of individuals to action, the debt of public bodies did not develop in order to become death or unsatisfactory to resist the traumas that may befall us, and that the public effort in our society will not be the result of our work and valuable creation will not be the result of its fate. This does not mean, however, that we cannot build up our goals, which are actually minimal goals. We agreed to a law on government finance. There are sound reasons, including some. it shows that it may be better to put policy forward with a degree of flexibility. However, the result of the legal process was that, and this was a lot discussed in preparing the law at the time, setting up financial policy at any time with the minimum goals that the financial policy really deserves. The main objectives of public finance are built by sustainable development, carefulness and stability and firmness in public finance. It has been clearly found that there is good reason to prepare for a decision-making process over the years. In general, although nearly ten years have passed since some of the worst economic breakdown we've ever had, the state's budget still remains in a more delicate position, and I will discuss it later. Government expenditures have increased substantially between 2016 and 2017, mainly in the form of contracts that we have met but the salary of public servants and the salary in the community have increased. The consequences include: that we have improved the social security budget, as well as the priorities for improving social security in general. At the same time, there is a huge demand for increasing donations to various social factors that have remained virtually calm for a decade. As a result of the lack of major growths in such issues as law enforcement, transportation, or education, or other aspects of our daily life that we are now talking about are calling wood. Although we have made additional donations to health care especially during the past few years, we are in accordance with popular discussions and attitudes far from being required to do what is required. As a community, we are facing many challenges in the past decade. In the autumn election, health matters were widely covered, and the last few weeks have been extensively covered with transportation and roads. It is there and in many other aspects that we have actually borrowed. Not all of us are included in the stocks and the government's credit lines, but they can also be measured by other factors. To clarify my point further, I'd like to quote and agree with an article published by the chairman of the Sparge Fund of the Southern Parliament. In the local newspaper Skösskhorn, he clearly shows how we as a nation have borrowed money from the transport system in the form of delaying and needing improvements and new projects. A writer in Skösshorn wondered whether to consider borrowing in transport activities as a priority for the next year's renovations. I think this comparison is a good example of the balance arts needed for the next few years to control the economy so that we will not be mismatched in our real ability to perform and wishful thinking. For financial policy coverage, it is necessary to keep in mind that there is rapid economic growth. There is tremendous economic growth and a growing economy. The financial policy is based on our objective of living in public affairs, debt and the extent of the government, and its main points, by the permission of a president, are the following: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The remainder will be in the overall balance of the official period 2017/2022 which will be at least 1% of gross domestic product (VFL) in 2017, at least 1.6% of VFL in 2018 and 2018, but reduces by 0.1% of gross domestic product each year thereafter. The rest will be spent to reduce debt. 2. The official total debt of less than 30% of GDP by the end of 2019 will not exceed 26% of VLP by the end of 2022. 3. All irregular and uniting funds in the state's funds, such as selling property, will be spent to further speed up debt or to reduce unfunded pension bonds in order to trust the financial status of the state's funds and to reduce interest costs. 4. The total annual total pay will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product over time. The majority of countries believe that there is a reason to draw special attention to some of the policy's reasons, and most are expected to be a continuing growth in the forecasting period in Iceland's National Institute of Economics since November. In the projection, economic growth was estimated to be 4.4% this year, followed by a range of 2.6How3% in duration. The economic forecast will be followed by an ongoing economic growth period at least A decade, most likely the longest continuous economic growth in Iceland history. Industry demand, employment investments, and tourism growth are at present the main driving force for growth. Predictions were made in mid - February. By then, economic growth of 2016 was predicted to be far greater than that of November. However, significant changes were observed for the 2017/2022 period, and the majority of the committee have not taken into account updated national forecasts. All policy sizes are expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product, but the majority of them call attention to the fact that such a point point point point point point result in transparency can also conflict with the baseline policy. The policy line may thus become too narrow, but it must not be too wide to avoid being meaningless. As mentioned earlier, it may be possible to set the target forward as a proportion of GDP over a period of time and, in parallel, to evaluate the national financial risk. A client suggests, for example, that... it should be expected that if the rate of economic growth is 1 percentage lower than the intended range, it will result in a lacquency as early as 2019 and will continue through the time of predicting. Some authorities feel that lack of policy management is essential, pointing out the need for more policy development in order to maintain the maintenance level and to ensure that the state finance policy does not work against the U.S. Seurbourbourg's financial policies. It is noted that the positive result of building sound values is strongly based on the view that economic growth will continue throughout the prophecy period and that it would be the longest continuous range of economic growth in modern economic history. The term automatic fluctuation indicates that with the advantage of the fluctuation, there are built-in factors in public income and reciprocals that increase income time and reduce expenses. The tax system is such that the rate of taxes increases when the well-being and well-being system has connections that reduce expenses at the same time. The key point is that the benefits of maintenance are significant when the economy is neither expand nor recessed. The main weight of the last financial policy was to let the automatic fluctuation of its work, to keep the payback level steady while increasing economic activity and using the rest for payment. Outcome goals alone do not provide adequate measure for the maintenance of public funds, even if the total expenses are also covered. In order to facilitate the assessment of the maintenance phase, it is necessary to have a precipitating element, i.e. Remuneration and income, except interest and income. The majority believe that in the development of economic policy in the future, it should be considered to calculate the original equation, i.e. aquifers without interest and fees, in terms of money, and not merely in total equal terms, as is now being done. The development of primacies is a very important clue to the maintenance of public funds. The position of the economy has a predominant effect on the survival of the government. When domestic farming is successful, tax revenues are relatively greater, and various expenditures, such as unemployment, are less expensive. Therefore, assessment of the maintenance level requires more initiality and even some correction to a degree because of the impact of the economy. The majority of policy measures show that maximum maintenance is in 2018 and 2018, but much lower in the late years in which the target is set as a lower proportion of land production, as well as reducing interest expenditures, and thus there is room to increase management costs and to reduce the extent of recovery. Expansion costs are estimated to be 70.2 billion per year, but by the end of the forecast period it is estimated to be more than 50 billion dollars. Therefore, there is evidence to suggest that the maintenance of the late phase will be relaxed. The European Union, in its review, points out that the rural community operates within financial regulations that apply to them under local government laws. In recent years the debt rates of rural society have fallen substantially. Civil society's improved management status is being expected to continue. In turn, rural societies estimate a value of 29 billion dollars. to make investments beyond the income of cross-cutting costs. In the national interest system, this means that the total recovery of rural society will be negative by 8 billion dollars. or about 0.3% of gross domestic product in the current year and the next. The conclusion would be unchanged in accordance with the synonym, where a balance is expected to exist in the overall survival of rural society over the years. The majority of the data shows that conflicting production may result in discrepancies between financial policy and rural development. The majority estimate that 0.1% of the share of gross domestic product during the first year is safe and normal in relation to the lack of rest in the previous policy. It is unmistakably that the role of a community in public finance is very important and very desirable that along with a responsible Kingdom target will be achieved by such objectives with the rural community. The majority of the committees, therefore, are directed toward the cooperation of rural society and State to bring together as best of the development and development. There was no agreement between state and rural society at the hearing of the case, but according to information received by the financier yesterday, an agreement is now under way, which, in fact, will be confirmed. In order not to contribute to further expansion and support the financial policies of the Bank of Iceland, the State needs to establish its investments in ways that do not risk overexploitation at the same time. There are many ways. Discussion of health - care investment has revealed a great need for infrastructure. It is also necessary to achieve long - term size benefits. It is also important to control public projects in less economic places. Economic management presents a special challenge as to the size of the population and the extent of the distribution. Large parts of the country have not experienced expansion or economic growth. This has further been the case with contractions or collapse. A land exchange needs to be kept in mind when setting priorities for public investment projects. Investment in the transport system has been high, and it is necessary to promote and improve the competitiveness of the individual communities and the whole country. The majority of the Committee considers it very important to aim to distinguish between different investments and implementations in individual articles and between national and southwest angles in terms of impact and economic activities. A respectable president. It has long been said that all the people of the country have an understanding of economic discussions. Truly, we belong here in the provinces and parts of the country, which for decades have not experienced expansion. For example, for a long time, the region of the valley region from the west and east of the Eyjafjörður has remained in a station. For the inhabitants of those regions, it is very exotic that roads cannot be fixed because of the risk of thawing. Also, let us not forget that the same people were told that earlier years could not be fixed because there was no money. The majority of the committees stress that a plan will be made for at least five years on investment in community infrastructure, economic and social. Investment in infrastructure is essential to meeting the requirements for good living here on the land that meets the best known in the world. A greater part of it feels that it is wise to examine fully the potential for financing economic infrastructure in cooperation with founded investors, such as a pension fund. I mentioned before the view that the government borrower was in particular in the form of postponing and needed improvements in various common investments, such as transport systems. Therefore, this emphasis on the majority should be considered in that light. In view of the greater part, it is important that the framework of financial policy not prevent the necessary and normal investments in society's infrastructure. With regard to the interest paid by the state, the committee introduced themselves and discussed thoroughly the composition and development of Kingdom funds. The wealth is still in a more sensitive debt. Debts have declined over the past few years. They climaxed in 2012 at 1,130 billion. but have dropped 370 billion. in four years. As a proportion of GDP, the debt was 86% of land production by the end of 2011 and fell to 47.5% by the end of that year. The year. The majority of foreign debts are marketed stocks, such as government fraud, securities, and dissociation of government bonds and a special target category of bonds published to finance contributions and exchange loans to financial institutions. In the coming years or until the year 2022, loans are heavy. It is the most critical category of bonds on the due date of 2018. The years 2020 and 2022 are foreign editions on due date. It is important to subsidize a section of the loans, thus reducing the size of existing groups before due due to due due date. The course of loans is to maintain an active bond market, so the goal is not to make the state's debt entirely. On the contrary, the estimate is that there may be a total of 3503/4,500 billion dollars in the open debt. in unconvinced government letters at any given time. It is also a policy to maintain one or two of the criteria of foreign loans at any given time. Thus, the policy is not to pay down all the debts of the state but to make the State a debt that will be in the range of 450,600 billion dollars. which is 17◯23% of gross domestic product based on a projection of land production over the next few years. In particular, though, the State's payment as a percentage of land production is falling and lower than in many OECD countries, the interest rate is very high compared to that of other countries. One of its main reasons is a combination of debt, while 82% of the total debt is domestic debt, but only 18% are foreign. The growth rate in Iceland is much higher than in most parts of the world, and changing it is not simple to pay interest costs. A large part of the state's budget, or about 80% of its interest. Interpretation interest rates take into account the quality of the time and market situation when it is first published. The growth rate depends largely on supply and demand at any given time. A large proportion of foreign loans are also on fixed interest, and the next year's interest risk should be taken into account. The majority stress the continuing effort to reduce the debt of state funds as well as the significant decrease in interest of interest costs. A major factor is that economicism does not promote property development, as it is relative. Work is being done to develop a financial account in line with the new accounting guidelines set out in the civil law on public finances. However, there are already information on many holding classes of state funds, such as share in companies and information about them could be published on their policy. Information on local property is also available. One of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period of policy development has to do with the sale of state funds, especially their share in business banks. On the basis of written prices, the share of state funds in big business banks is about 450 billion dollars. Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands nearly complete, with about 13% of shares in Arazon's bank. Clearly, the subsidies of the State's debt depend largely on how these assets are sold. The majority of these figures consider it necessary to give careful discussion of the future structure and ownership of the business banks at the General Assembly. Questions need to be answered, such as how banks will be best prepared for a trade process. Their balance and their activities should be reviewed prior to sale. The banks have their own financial standings and are, in effect, overcrowded. A decision must be made as to whether it is right and wise for the banks to make a special contribution in order to reduce their own money to the government prior to its sale. Trade sales of the government's assets must be planned in the business banks, thus building trust in the trade process. The majority of the items have no direct suggestions on these topics, but suggests a potential to consult foreign sources for counselling and management for sale. This could increase confidence in the process of sale and create the peace that is essential. Before that time, there will be a question of how the government believes that the bank will be the best possession in the long term. A framework for the maximum shareholders may have to be set and limited cross-created whenever possible. Abnormal, undesirable conflict of interests and relationships must be prevented. The majority of them are aimed at the General Economic and Business Committee to conduct a discussion at the General Assembly on the preparation of the holdings of the state's holdings of banks and the future financial markets. The objective is that sales occur after careful discussions and an open and transparent sale process. How we manage to rid financial funds will make a difference as to how state funds will develop over the years and thus how we can prepare our financial policies for the task that confront us in running this country a powerful and good society. A respectable president. Under this opinion, a greater proportion of the budgetary committee writes and suggests that the Council's resolution will be accepted without any change. The following financial committees sign: Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the legal committee and chairman, Jón Valdimarsson Valmarisson, Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir, Óli Björn Kárason, and Njáll Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it's like 7th floor. the law on government finances is to set aside expenses and goals for subsidies, but under law it is not necessary to set expenses. V.E.G. Government and what. However, members of the council decide to set up financial policies for their next five - year spending fees. So only if there is a disaster in this country can we change. Approximately 15 billion of GDP is 0.5% of the gross domestic product. According to a strategy report, cost is expected to be 41% in 2017. If there is no change in GDP, there are 15 billion distances. If growth occurs it is okay to have such a rule, but if a contraction occurs, it will bite. [[The president calls.]] So I ask. A Congressman: Why is it determined to set an spending rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. It is true that the senator runs, that in itself there is nothing set apart by the law on the spending policy. However, it was very clear that, in view of more of the legal committees during the last terms, it was desirable to have such a rule. It is primarily the ground where the secretary of finance set up the budget or a roof into a policy and runs it in the Senate case. Why do we do this? Yes, I think it is simply wise for us to set goals for expenses so that we are not trying to procrastinate them when they are positive. But just as a senator points out, this too can work against us when a contraction occurs. But I think this spending rule, as it is stated here, should not cause us trouble on the basis of the course we address.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u44	Mr. President. If practical predictions under the policy course are presented in the report, there is no need to worry about it. However, if there is to be a recession, the policy will be agreed that the cost will not exceed 41.5% of GDP. If there's a big contraction, that means that we have to cut into our big joint systems. I want to ask you why. Senator, I'm sure I don't understand it correctly. It confuses me a little bit that once you want to set a budget, you talk about a stability fund that could be inserted to match the fluctuations. How, though, is the stability fund going to work if it is not to be increased? Using this spending policy, it is merely to ensure that taxes will not be raised by rich people and responsored businesses or money taxes, ensuring that if the charges are cut but fail to earn, they will not be paid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u45	A respectable president. It has long been difficult, when we have stretched out our government spending in good times, to restrain it when a contraction occurs. It is usually a process that is very slow, often difficult to deal with. It is responsible in that way that we set this spending rule. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, according to financial policy and the plans on which we build it, it is, for example. expected a decrease in the interest and interest costs of the government. So we in itself have reason to look for ways to increase expenses. The budget should not bite us on the basis of the criteria we give for this financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u46	Mr. President. The financing of financial policy has been identified by the President's permission: ... that governments can land on the edge of their economic policy if the situation proves to be different from economic forecasts. It was not the time to review national interests or economic grounds for the policy under discussion at this time. The Economic and Business Committee has had so much time to finish her payment. In fact, there has been insufficient discussion of these predictions. How we must listen when this warning is given! I notice that in the opinion of the greater part, there is talk of the importance of investments in the infrastructure, such as driving. A senator did so in his speech. It points out that there is a complete need to investigate the possibility of funding infrastructure in cooperation with founded investors, such as a pension fund. [[The president calls.]] Is it intended, Mr President, that in order to avoid the necessary investment in the infrastructure, which all classes praised before elections, should go into cooperation with a pension fund on the necessary investment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u47	A respectable president. I thank her senator for an answer. Yes, it is appropriate that we discuss in our panel of committees the need for us to put together long - term investment plans and also look to other means of financing through the necessary improvements in our infrastructure, which we are beginning to learn to call it, such as an investment in a road system, which I make particularly a subject for coverage. It's, for example. The way of going to such investments in cooperation with founded investors, such as a pension fund. There are also ways that we review various other aspects of our government's business and business of various other enterprises, whether we can't get out of that budget or get involved with our partners there to release funds to enter internalinvestors. I call attention to the fact that we're raising expenses for investments in our community at capital policy, including as well as increasing government expenditures in current budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson answered. Yeah, we're wearing a straitjacket. This is where economic policy is to be put in charge of economic crisis. No revenue potential is expected. And because of what? A senator and his members of the committee know that there is a great need for investment in the medical system anyway. A senator discussed transportation. We can also talk about the school system, what. A senator knows that there is a great need and that he is trying to do something else. Release capitals from government companies? What does that mean? Is it about selling public companies to earn money in the necessary investments, because it is a dogma of this government that you cannot gain new income to live up to the necessary infrastructure that all partyes praised for elections? I'd like to pray. A senator to further explain what he was talking about earlier when he spoke of releasing money in such a way
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u49	A respectable president. We draw out our financial payments, and this was well documented in the history of the highest. The minister of finance, when he moved the matter here in the hall, that the state funds are still in a more delicate position. The wealth does not have the means to increase its expenses significantly, since it is still in debt that we need, first of all, to pay more quickly. Second, the senator asks me to be more specific in what I mean by my comments about reevaluating state affairs. Then let me mention what I have primarily in mind, that is building at the Cheflavor airport and operating the air base there, without even speaking of the commercial sales of the airport myself in that relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u50	A respectable president. In view of the majority of the committee, the development of debt is discussed. However, by permission of the president, the law on government funds says that episodes of involvement, survival, and development of property, debt and the long - term debt of public members and public agencies should be in financial policy. In this regard, economicism is divided. It's taken a bit beyond the limits of which are the debt of state funds, but not the pension debt as well as the corporate debt in general. The bottom line in the Commission opinion is that the entire debt of the public, including companies, is estimated to be over 1,500 billion, but the decrease in debt at the end of 2022 is only 66 billion. This makes me very strange, considering that the policy is, in fact, her only goal is to reduce the debt of the government. The result is 66 billion. I don't think it's that much. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a little bit better how but only the debt of state funds is part of this, such as the long-term development of pension debt and government companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u51	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want my answer to this wonderful answer. paritaprevir For whom I thank Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, draws attention to the fact that we added in our opinion a table of statistics behind these values based on the Senate, to fill more fully into that picture and how we can talk about it. I'm going to draw attention to the fact that during the period of policy production, national production is rising by up to 31% according to the projections below. There is a debt rate, or public debt as a percentage of land production, which is relevant to them in this regard. The other, I want to say, and it was clearly shown by the Commission that we are in an incredibly narrowly paid debt during the period of policy, and in reality, the years 2018, 2019, and 2020 become very difficult for us to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u52	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, the GDP of 15 billion is 0.5% but with regard to pension commitments, it is spoken of by the unfunded commitments of the B-instution of the State's Penitentiary, which must be financed about 13 billion annually without intervention. It's these 0.5%. The situation is, as we have seen, in a particular straitjacket. The goal is to reduce debt. This means that we do not have much to do with what is said to be necessary. There's not much to worry about. As some sources said, 1 percent lower economic growth, and then we're in the minus. Then we couldn't pay off debts. That's when we get into more trouble. This is the situation we're in right now. It would really be a miracle if it did happen. [[The president calls.]] It would be good if this worked, but it seems that a miracle is expected by reporters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u53	A respectable president. I'm just saying, it doesn't take mine any miracle to make this work. Not at all. The focus of the financial policy is on the maintenance of the first part of the period, which is then relaxed, as if we were doing well in our committee party. We'll increase the space of state funds for an action that I think may be considered in this relationship when people talk about straitjackets and if we react, we'll have a fuller policy, so to speak, in this way. I think we should also have an open mind that there are other things we can do in the government business and not just have to watch government tax revenues in order to get more investments and projects that are certainly needed to attack in many areas. We should also have an open mind about using new methods as I spoke in a previous answer, e.g. such as another management plan or other approach to air bases and other factors that we have in our community and that we can successfully survive in ways that are different from what we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u54	A respectable president. My question to what? A senator is simple. Selling a Bank or Not Selling a Bank? We're here to talk, as the committee says, by permission of a president: ▪ One of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period of policy development has to do with the sale of state funds, particularly their share in business banks. Are there plans to sell the banks? Is that clear? A senator that in this ideal period, over the next five years, will prepare for a trade process? That there's a special plan to sell state property at Iceland Bank, the Lands Bank and possibly Arion banks? Does this appear in the financial program? Because, as the committee puts it: To a large extent, the subsidence of the State's debt is determined by the way it sells these assets. Is that clear? The senator's being sold in the state banks during this terms? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u55	A respectable president. In fact, financial policy is based very much on how we manage to free the property of the money fund. As a result, the answer is yes, we are going to release the government's financial assets during the period of policy. On the other hand, we make it very clear that we need a much wider conversation about which bank to sell and how to prepare them for sale and how we are going to sell them. That's what we're saying. As a result, the answer to a question arises. Senator to be a yes, we're selling banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u56	A respectable president. Yeah, it's news, because it's the best. The secretary of finance recently said, with the permission of a president: There are no special plans for selling state property in Iceland and U.S.A. and U.S.A. There seems to be much conflict between what the committee considers financial policy to be doing in relation to the highest level. Secretary of finance intends to do so. What confidence should one have? Is it about to sell banks or to sell banks? This is where we're in detail, like what's wrong. A senator rightly pointed out, with plans, and laid the basis for selling banks. Then I just have to ask: Is that normal? To the highest. Ministers say one thing and the understanding of the Committee is another? A respectable president. It's just not possible. We have to start getting answers, and the answers need to match between the committee, presumably, the majority of it, and the highest. Secretary of finance. How is this going to work? Selling a Bank or Not Selling a Bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u57	A respectable president. The maintenance we're going to during the period between state and rural policy is worth about $250 billion. Most of it is what we're going to use to reduce debt. But that's not enough. We must also use government property sales to reduce debt. We have our own money booked in this bank of 450 billion dollars. The premise that this financial policy is being carried out is that we reduce the State's interest costs. We do so by means of the operation of the bank's sales process. And, yes, it is the understanding of a greater proportion of legal committees to sell on bank property.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u58	Mr. President. The conversation was interesting. Chairman of the budget board and what. Senator on the sale of banks. I'm going to review the opinion of the 1st memory of a proposal for a conference resolution on financial policy required to submit under official financial legislation. The Conspiracy proposal is now submitted a second time. First, such a proposal was presented to the 145th legion of the legislature and was approved on August 18. At the same time, a conquistador proposal for a financial strategy was submitted for 2017-2021, and it was adopted and based on policy, such as the one we'll be getting on Friday. Granted, since the laws on public finances have not been passed, it can be seen that the introduction of the new procedures that follow them is still under way and that the new ones are involved. This does not apply, however, to the synonym that we are here discussing, that it shows something new. On the contrary, it is very similar to the one proposed on the part of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the then financial minister, although the General elections have passed in the autumn and a new government has been formed in January, as we know, and the minister of finance and economics is now coming from another category. The 2017/2022 financial policy is very similar to that of the previous government, and there are no significant changes planned for the establishment of the state's budget for its duration. Thus, the tone expressed for the structure of society and public activity in behalf of citizens of the country is all dark and sad and expectations of financial programs that are published on Friday can be nothing more than small on behalf of the welfare and social activities. It has to be said that, as it is, that the majority of the legal committees are not to consider most of the factors suggested by a financial body, they are of great importance, but when discussing the making of the law, the importance of the Council was just stressed as an independent body. This would be a significant comment when, as previously established, a financial Council says that the aim of a policy could result in a government fixation in a series of sequences in which it cannot meet when predictions fail. And financial advice confirms what we left greens have repeatedly said, that the automatic fluctuation was weakened when the between the steps of the income tax system were dropped. A financial adviser makes better, saying that with the income and cost policy, the automatic fluke balance is basically decompressed. A financial adviser also notes that the government needs to prepare specific risk assessments or scenarios to increase policy transparency and to prepare response, but an attempt has not been made to face the uncertainty that is indicated in the policy. It is very important to remember this about financial advice and the discussion at the time when the law was proposed to suggest that financial counsel be placed in the Ministry of finance. So we rejected in the memory part because the scheme is to be completely independent of its actions, and that, of course, is not if it is located there. According to 2 mg. Section 6. the law on public finances should base financial policy on sustainable, carefulness, stability, firmness and transparency. In the existing motions, they are a new law to prepare such government policies, and they must inevitably address the capacity of society to perform joint tasks and raise questions about the role of government funds, rural society, and public financial interests in general. The main feature of economicism can be said to be a two - part suggestion. Another is the aim of a well-developed record of government funds, or around 250 billion in the duration of the plan, and the rest are plans for a significant decrease in the debt of the A-part State Fund. Each in itself is a good payer and may have a good relationship with the appropriate circumstances, but as matters may arise, the conclusions of such a financial policy do not seem to be practical. According to the budget for 2017, the State's debt is expected to decline by nearly 130 billion a year. The premise that their plans will be carried out is based on some of the factors involved. The sale of the state's ownership of Arion's bank. Since the value of the 13% of the bank owned by the state is very uncertain, it is clear that both of these estimates can be addressed with hope. That's why the discussion was very interesting. It must seem that something we need to wonder about if the minister says one and more things to the legal committees. There are great public interest issues linked to the government's holdings on financial schemes and plans for their disposition. Therefore, it must be strictly a requirement to the government that the measures required for impartiality and transparency will be met but will not be a basis for distrust, suspicion, and suspicion that the interests of the public have been ignored. So I agree with the opinion of the greater part in this respect, that, as they say, it is very important to answer questions such as how the banks will be best prepared to do the trade process and that it may be possible to consult foreign sources for advice and management on sales. I think it can be very useful, and I like the trust we need, and we've seen it now. As we look at the public interests associated with these assets, I'd like to keep that around 67% of the country's population don't want the government selling their share in the Lands Bank, half against the government selling their share in Iceland Bank and Aion banks. A survey was conducted before they informed us that the hedge fund and Goldman Sachs were buying a large share in Arion Bank. I am convinced that if such a survey was made today, the group would be even larger that would be opposed. So it is crystal clear to me that they cannot, under any circumstances, be resolved without the fact that they are covered by the Generals. In order to reduce interest payments and to reduce the financial risk of reimbursement, policies are also linked to the legal objective of public finances to total debt, apart from the debt of pension and business debt, and to the detriment of funds and bank accounts, there is a very large difference, being less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Government plans to achieve that goal at the end of 2019 C.E. are based on, in fact, the government's plans for reaching the target at the end of 2019 C.E. in response to the increase in domestic product value during that period. While national forecasting of the winter of 2016, proposed financial policy, it certainly assumes that during the entire period of economic policy, the prerequisite plans for debt subsidies can change in such a short time that plans will, in fact, be unrealistic and inexplicable. Since the decrease in debt is such a major part of the program that it must be considered a loss of credibility. I think the highest. The secretary of finance said in a discussion of policy that despite what was expected in the policy around 5 billion was needed to cover the government's planned plans in addition to the releases here. However, a smaller portion of the view is that it would be easier to pay off debt than is suggested in financial policy and more emphasis on the construction of transport workers and social and health services, so you name the most important subjects we are constantly discussing. There's a plot of debt below the law's limits. In my opinion, it's totally unnecessary, and it doesn't serve national well-being goals when it happens at the expense of the public service as it already is, because from where else is it to come but from the well-being? The proposal for fiscal policy for 2017-022 gives evidence that there is no intention of dealing with the economic expansion by means of specific measures or to support the government's income base. There does not have to be a word to say that it can look like a straddled form of the right policy that was traveling when the last government's financial policy was made and when another version appears. The growth of tourism is among the factors leading to expansion. Of course, this is clear to governments, but they still prefer not to take steps to reduce the impact of adequate taxation on tourism services, such as return fees, which would be used for necessary infrastructure and, especially, to strengthen their communities in what they are facing. It's a bad idea, and it's a lot harder because the local tourism services are growing so fast and suddenly that society's infrastructure is not ready to deal with the population of tourists. So there is a great need for investment in that area as we hear every day, whether we are talking about sensitive areas, natural protection areas, or the road system. It is noted in the reference work of the European Union's member on the matter that the objective of a member of the rural community as stated in the financial policy is deemed trustworthy and not consistent with the agreed financial programmes of the rural community. In part, financial advisers pay attention to the mismanagement between the State's economic policy and the financial administration of the local community can lead to the advancement of the State's economic policies going into courts, even if rules are established as required. Based on the response to the proposal for financial policy, members of the local community and financial council are absolutely reason to believe that this may be the case, and there is every possibility that areas of society are very limited. Yesterday or early, we received an unsigned agreement on the survival of our rural communities before and until the year 2022. Once I've read it, I kind of feel like it's been written at the Ministry of finance instead of the Union of Iceland. I think it's a sign that now we have a policy that has come along, and we don't have an agreement yet, the rural community is involved. In fact, there is still some work to be done to correct it. I find this to be very sad because it is one of the essentials for the success of public financial laws. Says 3rd. In the agreement, which I reiterate is unsigned, but we were sent with the premise that it would probably not take much changes, by permission of the president: Public funds, e.g. improving risk assessment and anastom analysis. It needs to improve the basis for decision-making and the development of the interaction between public financial and financial policies. This is to be tried every year at the end of March because there are no scenarios if things go wrong. It also says, by permission of the president, in Deuteronomy. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: While public trends are relatively positive, they are slightly less than desirable from a economic perspective and taking into account the positive effects of current economic growth on government income. Also, there are a number of cases that countries and rural groups are going to try to go through. There's a lot of things I would have felt normal to be in, that, before you set out your policy, it would have been successful. I wondered whether the approval in March of the month will be sufficient, or will the course be established again before this is arrived? In fact, the starving and contract policy that has been run against the communities is a special concern. It should be noted that the role of rural activities, as well as that the balance and debt rules introduced into the financial section of rural legislation have resulted in improving the accounting status of many rural communities, while adjustment to the requirements of these rules has also resulted in a far lower than required investment of rural society. This has even been true. They will be discussed within the National Economic Council and will be discussed in a 3 issue of the European Union Newsletter, which discusses the financial programmes of rural society between 2016 and 2020 and points to the urgent need for investments. The economic situation of many of our country's rural society has indeed improved, in the past few years, but their position in the matter of their role and duty to its inhabitants is weak and there is little evidence that their rural communities will not be able to fulfill their role. And it may also be remembered that the damage of society due to neglect of the construction of society's infrastructure is not transferred to accounts in government accounts or the annual accounts of the rural community. It is reason to express concern over the indifference to the present economic expansion manifest in financial policy. It should be noted in a paper that it is important to take anticoagulation measures, but it will not be critical of the next - to - do advice that most people will likely be borrowing, which involves strengthening the state's income base so that it will not be ironed as it is now, and using the money available to build up for society, where there is a great need for reforming and improving the welfare system. In this regard, it is worth a reminder of a limited amount of currency, such as resource expenditures, which should be freely applied in this regard. It's worth it too, because we're always talking about government and community communication, that we need to strengthen the income base of our rural society, and we need to change the tax system. I agree with at least one of the things that are going on at my fourth cut, where there's an increasing increase in the cost of stay to the countryside, which rhymes with our left-hand green direction and what we've been talking about. I also have an opinion of what the Committee's Department says on my section 4, by permission of a president: ▪ Finally, a 4th reduces the importance that those who have only alimony of capital income pay a normal part of it in the form of an outback to the rural community. In fact, as with the private societies, when they developed a serious decrease in the income of the rural society, the growth of the situation has increased too much. I think we really need to consider this. There's been an amazing examination for a long time, and somehow nothing will happen. In financial policy, it is proclaimed that automatic fluctuation will be used against the economic expansion. However, in view of the fact that the movement of income and the remuneration have been attached to the product's name, it is shown that the next small effect of automatic fluctuation on the panel is reduced. While it may be clear that governments do not intend to take steps to increase government income, the tax policy is not clearly evident in the program. The more important things involved, the development of the tax system, the application of the transfer system, and other aspects of this matter. It is also worth reminding us that the tax change of the former government included all expeditation of government funds. This has indeed been a sign and a weak energy of the government to cope with its challenges beyond its enjoyment. It is necessary to explain how to react to this situation. Governments have expressed interest in researching a crisis fund and are beginning to do this in a financial conference. Perhaps such a fund will put the Icelandic economy at a time to balance its variance and prevent its impact. But if an institution of that kind requires action on tax matters as a basis to question the availability of those who are now in charge of financial matters, at least not in the opinion of the person listed here. In view of the financial Council on the proposal of February 9, 2017, it is noted that it would be better to consider terms of economic growth based only on the National Standards concept that is believed to be inaccurate due to errors in calculating models and agglutination in data. Under these circumstances, I also agree that since the purpose of the pursuit of Kingdom funds depends on the related forecasts, it is important to look for ways to establish a realistic linking of financial policy rather than what is being done, the methods that are now being applied seem to lead to its aim and focus rather on internal reality and the context of financial policy rather than to take it as far as possible considering the developments in the society that she is to serve. In view of this, it is important that, in the future, the Economic and Business Committee should have a view of the matter in time for it to have the opportunity to evaluate the fundamental national heads of interest, but this time the Senate proposal was sent all too late to the Commission, who actually got a day after I had repeated a request. The fiscal policy is presented as a proportion of GDP, as determined by the public financial legislation, but it is not found anywhere in the absolute value of estimated domestic product. The reader needs to know this information so that he can understand the content of financial policy and therefore would have been right in its text. The majority responded and certainly entered the statistics received by the committee, which is good, but this is something that I feel needs to be at one time, i.e. ... whenshe'sprepared. Another obvious weakness in terms of economic policy and its methods is that the aims of rural society are not practical and do not support their financial plans. Also there, financialism does not seem to have anything to do with reality. In particular, it is critical that the statistical objectives of rural society would not be met, but such an agreement, taking into account the views of the rural community, would be irreverent in order to strengthen the value of financial policy, as I said earlier, to be part of the restructuring of the law of public finance. In view of the failure of the agreement on this important aspect, it is likely that the overall financial policy that the financial policy should include the courts. It should be noted that the treatment of the debt theories on the pension fund has not been resolved with account-established uncertainty. It is stated in exactly the agreement that our rural society has issued to us yesterday. Also, the decision has not been made that if it is counted as a debt under the debt rule, the debt of the rural communities is expected to increase by 1.6% of gross domestic product. I find it very interesting to think that the government fund doesn't think it's necessary to take its pension bonds into policy, i.e. It's totally out of the way, but there's some question with the communities about it. That's very special to me. If it's supposed to be the debt of both sides, it's going to happen on the same basis, though it's certainly not on the same foundation. Of course, it is critical that a five - year - old government policy should be proposed without such an important outcome. Of course, the General should take this part for special treatment now that we have resolved the matter. Unfunded Penitentiary of state and rural bonds, except for about 650 billion dollars. or about 27% of gross domestic product, these are no small amounts. This has not been presented convincing suggestions for solving the situation, which, of course, matter much to the government financial policy in the years to come. This is one of the statements of financial advisers that it is unnatural not to consider when evaluating the national population's short-term and long-term debt status. Nor can it be overlooked that national dating and demographics are in a way that lies ahead is a significant structure for the management of aging and health services in the absence of damage. The financial policy cannot be determined how to invest enough and rapidly in this field in its longevity despite a great deal of promises. In this context, it is also worth considering whether it is advisable to employ generation accounts in order to ensure long-term sustainability of public funds, as it is in the opinion of a financial body on the Parliament's decision. A smaller portion of 1 thinks that this indication should be taken seriously. Also, I would like to include just some suggestions on the new financial arrangements. The process is indeed a process of evolution, and hopefully there are many things that will change. There is something very clear in my mind. To agree with this course without actually seeing what social goals it will have to meet, I don't feel acceptable. The law certainly says that policy should be approved first, then the plan and then the budget in the fall. I would have felt better that we would regroup, like last, policy and plan where no numbers, as we have previously discussed, appear in a policy, only proportionately, because if I understand members of the greater part right and highest. The secretary of finance will have a plan of strict policy until the end of the five-year period, unless there is a disaster. On top of the above, the Ministership is so enhanced by large pots that they can make at will without the presence of the council. When I look at this direction and read it and go through it with the ones we've studied with, I don't see what financial plans will make me look like. If the policy is so subjugated, we need to see how it works. It's another thing to do. Now we're turning on the first floors while we're trying to figure out how this works. I think it would be good. The amount of time available for work is also too limited. As I came in earlier, the government budget will be submitted Friday, and we're going to talk about it after the weekend, I understand. From there she goes, i.e. when a discussion is completed at the council, but the plan expects one long Tuesday, to all committees. They have about two days to call in the Ministry, and they have a presentation of appropriate language groups that they have generally not discussed in the required way today. And it's not likely that some committee would like to call the biggest parties to story and talk, I'd think, for example. The land hospital or the university institutions or the Roadmaker or whatever, when there's a plan. These are the major lawsuits that have been the most part of the discussion. This is meant to be two, maybe three days, if well wooded. Then the council goes on Easter holiday, and the committees have about a week to complete their tour and return some form of paper after Easter vacation. We have to face this, because we've been discussing this up and down on the budget, whether it's going back to some disintegrating article, that it's nothing different than with everything else we're dealing with. It's a natural high-level document, both policy and plan, so we have to assume there's a lot of people. I believe that there is absolutely no question that members of Congress would naturally want to introduce their political emphasis into the financial program, which sets in the big context. After this, the budget has a short period to coordinate and review the findings of the committee and then give its opinion. The procedure needs to adapt to these changes in my opinion so that this will be an adequate work if it is to produce the desired results. A respectable president. The efforts to improve the management of public funds and to provide firmness in public finances that are expressed in the laws on public financial and financial policies, which, in some respects, have been lost, as I have traced. There are some reasons why economic policy is so weak that doubts about its claim are far more than justified. The high emphasis laid on the decline of debt to a law-enforcement level is unique and is rather indicative of targets of a particular success in accounting but a sound policy on social development. The five - year federal and financial laws include tools to shape certain goals, methods to achieve them goals and frames. The latter, the financial law on government finance, came under great criticism from the members of Congress on the left movement, while the matter was being discussed at the General Assembly, and now it comes in the day that it was not unprovoked, as I have traced it to my case. However, while there is much to find that the laws on public finances and that this conference resolution on financial policy for the coming year are the main factors, the use of these devices is now being governed by a smooth right course that is constantly beginning to shift further away from the interests of society. Such a course would be completely absurd to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because she was also on a budget committee during the last terms when the government would not accept financial counsel. During the last term, we spent considerable time on the budget committee to review the role and thought it was very important that there be experts who would evaluate both financial and financial policies and that governments could then revise discussions and take into account the statements made by the financial Council. It's not done. I can speak for myself, and I was surprised to learn that there was nothing to be said about the financial Council. The question, then, is, What is the point? I'd like to ask who, too. A senator: Does she not believe that when financialism is set down, it has gone backwards? First, economic forecasts are examined, then the objective and the debt targets are set, instead of using the government's budget to influence economic and economic situation, which is set out for those who predict the outcome compared to the failure of the trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The financial Council has produced a number of pages on finance policy, and we spent much time on it. In fact, we went to Sweden and visited financial councils to try to figure it out and learn something about how they worked to prepare for it to be professional and independent. I don't think that's what we've been able to do. I don't have any doubt about it. Unfortunately, many serious comments are presented below. It is not really an experiment to heed the advice of a financial body. I never would have thought it would be. Of course, you start to think about what that advice is, if it is not to be taken seriously. In view of the nature of this discussion, we have to consider a financial committee. And in view of the way things are developing, I think we have to. Of course, the sequence is very peculiar. It has to be said at the moment. Like what? A senator is the economy that controls, and then the government is trying to sort it out, instead of being in control of a legitimate government policy that supports the Federal Bank money policy and supports the economic policies that must exist here. This is not done, as is pointed out by the financial council in a very detailed way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u61	Madam President. I would have thought that it would be a minimum requirement for more of the legal committee to have in its committee a quick argument why it was decided not to take into account financial recommendations, but it is made that financial advice does not exist. Here in our discussion, there have been some confusing messages, depending on who is spoken in the administrative home. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics has talked about the lack of interest in selling the banks, that can be done in ten years, or God knows what, but the Chairman of the White House. The legal committee says that the policy is to sell banks during the election season. You don't know exactly who to believe in here, the Minister or the chairman of a legal committee. There's something else that really confuses me with all this discussion, that's what's going on with financial policy. I want to read it, with president's permission: ▪ It may be that if corrected, it would be the product of a government fund in irons. For this reason, it would be unwise to set up new and permanent expenditures on the basis of this rest, and it could be said that valid evidence is there for the use of financial recovery in subsidies in subsidies rather than that decreasing interest charges will lead to growth of the primarys. The majority of them are down. The legal committee says that there is a possibility that there will be room for an increased debt to be paid by subsidies. The answer was also shown by what happened. However, the head of the budget board said that there was room for this to be done because less interest could be used in government spending. I want to ask you why. A Senator: What should we believe? [[The president calls.]] What does that mean? A senator of those words? [[The president calls.]] They will be followed by whether the chairman of a financial committee will speak or minister of economic and financial matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It was this with the banks, it was kind of strange, and especially in view of the discussion that has now developed regarding the sale of Adoni banks. It is also of particular interest that in the majority interest, it emphasizes the need to answer questions about how banks will be best prepared for sales. It's not a long time. It's not a long time. It needs to be taken care of. The matter is to come to the council. It needs to build trust. Even foreign sources or counselors and all of that are said to provide advice. I agree, that's to be done, but I can't quite get into it if the two right hands can't talk, because there's no left hand in this government section, what's going on? It's clear that people need to talk. There must also be a thorough tenant policy before going into this trade. So, then, are we not going to receive an acceptable price? Doesn't that matter? Is that what we're supposed to say in the season? At least there is nothing that we in the left green have spoken for; it is clear, of course, that we would have preferred to take the banks to ourselves and try to create a proper frame of tenure and the process of selling banks. Regarding what was observed in paediatric patients. A senator of the greater part earlier spoke of 15 million interest gaps that could be invested with or used to invest in investments, of course not necessarily, except that the payment of the debt is in vain because it is based on so many uncertainty issues. If that's what's going to happen, I'm worried about seeing the budget on Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u63	A respectable president. It's a proposal for a hearing on financial policy, with the permission of a president: Its assets will be contained, which were part of the stability of bank population, transformed into free money and new to reduce debt. In fact, it's the only thing that is stated in the financial policy itself about banks, but it suddenly shows in the leading list that banks are to be sold. You wonder, " How much of the majority committees are in charge of the policy? ' If the policy is to sell the banks, why doesn't that be said in the course itself? And if it is not said in itself that banks are to be sold how significant is the opinion of the committee really? The draft proposal comes from a financial and economic minister, and much of the majority opinion comes from a different government group than financial policy. According to the Commission opinion, the majority of the shares are directed to the Economic and Business Committee to bring up a discussion at the General Assembly to prepare for the sale of the state's holdings in banks to the next two weeks. I find this interesting, with the permission of the president, and also with the objective of the hall going forward, to the exception of a more thorough discussion and an open, transparent, retail process, to be sure. In advance, the results will be a sale that is a little strange for the discussion. I'd have thought if the economy went on, there's nothing special about selling the banks. On the other hand, if there are hardships, you might be able to help by reaching out for subsidies by perhaps selling some of the banks. I thought that was normal. I'm interested in hearing the opinions of the Commission on this misdirection in policy policy, a paper with the Senate resolution and the majority opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u64	Madam President. Obviously, it's twisted and wet. Like what? A senator points out that these are members of the Parliament and ministers of each tribe. Maybe there's something to do with it? True, we must also realize that the members of the administration body are signed, so that you may not be able to discern whether there is a conflict in the handling of this matter or not. Of course we have to get it straight. We need to discuss this and clean it up at the same time, as I read earlier, a survey of what the Icelandic people feel and at least 70% of them are, before the hedge fund and Goldman Sachs came in, did not want to sell the banks. Of course we should listen to it. There is no faith in the banking system yet. We need to be careful. That's why I don't understand how this works. I agree with the senator that a decision has already been made. It certainly has been authorized, pars. authority to sell the banks, so that there may not be new truths - Article 5. Yeah, so I think it might be. [[Up front.]] Of course, you don't know whether to have more value, which should be more important. The nominee, as we are told, is to explain it with the plan if we want to make changes so that I give it to myself because it has been signed, that it is the opinion of the committee that will be the result. I can't look at things any different than that, because otherwise it's natural not to talk about the Senate case if you can't change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u65	A respectable president. This is a matter we've only dealt with in the past. That if it doesn't stand in the law then there's no point in explaining it, there's nothing to explain, then the explanation really doesn't mean anything. I'm wondering if that applies in this case too. It's just another thing. Hv. A senator mentioned in his history to the minority opinion of this particular time frame that we are given in the public financial law in general and perhaps in regard to the financial program that will be submitted to Friday and the very short period of time that the law on public finances seems to give us on this process. This is now to be done in particular because the aim of bringing the budget talk further into the financial program that was once, natural in connection with the budget bill, took about the whole autumn by visits and the like of the committee. This is a very quick time just in the spring to discuss and cover what was actually done in an entire autumn. I wondered if those goals are achieved. Similarly, an election in October puts us in a somewhat different situation. Normally, financial policy would have come no later than a financial bill. Then you wonder, " Is the policy really to be done until the next fall and the financial agenda should be conducted on the basis of a previous financial policy, or should the financial strategy that was in force should not be valid for this year, financial plans and policy should apply for 2018 and after but not 2017? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u66	Madam President. What may be said about this is that first of all financial policies are in force before 2017. As it turned out in some form of criticism, I don't remember whether it was from the Union of Iceland or where it came from, it would, of course, have been 2018◯022, but not before this year because of these circumstances. There wouldn't be any need to do this right now. In view of the election and all, the council was somehow not prepared when the work programme was set up and working at the time of the election, i.e. This will not be taken into account by the work programme. We've all made it into our council groups, and the president is aware that this needs to be changed, and I assume that. I really hope it will be done so that the frame will be better adapted to this work, for there may be a certain requirement for the next fall's budget to take less time. I don't see that she does it in the light of how it's supposed to be right now. All right, then we'll take a little more time to do that. But the next fall should start in a natural way, as the senator was described, and we should set aside a budget, and at the start of the year, we should set out a policy to cover this. What concerns me, because we were getting a financial memory sheet on the risk assessment of this year's budget, and even more, when you look at the fact that the committees are now going to follow up and give an opinion on their litigation, that it's 11 billion expenditures beyond the financial resources of the first month of the year, the number of which is now, so there's an enormous risk. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I miss the minister who comes into the swamp film, who doesn't really like this discussion, which I don't like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u67	A respectable president. Here we are discussing financial policy for five years on the basis of new legislation. It deals with the scope, development, and development of possessions, the debt and the long - term debt of the public in general, and no less than five years of age at the same time. I'd like to make sure that there's nothing I can do but to the highest level. Ministers are here for the discussion. It has been recommended for the 1st minority party, and the minister has hardly been too little to sit here except in a swamp film. I assume he's sitting here until this discussion is over and participates in it. He's a CF minister in the government that supports at least a greater part of the Council. He needs the conversation, and he is expected to show himself and himself and his office and especially the Allied respect for being present. I also wish that the chairman of the legal committee be called.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u68	Madam President. I'm going to agree with this. In my innocence, a new senator, I thought maybe it was all just like this, but I found it strange that this room is almost empty. And we are discussing one of the most important issues discussed during this council. Looks like there's one of the directors in the room. Where are all the Ministers? Yet, let us be at the top. I don't know, but he's here, and he's got to stay here, but the rest is basically just a disgrace to the generals and shows that the government's will is out of control right now. In particular, it's amazing because it seems that in this financial policy, the two gangs have been completely deposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u69	Madam President. We're discussing government financial policy for the next five years. This is one of the basic cops we're going to discuss at this council because it's on this course that, in fact, will come off. That's why it's completely intolerable if the highest level is. A minister is not available to participate in the discussion. I also agree with those who have pointed out that, of course, here is why. The chairman of the budget committee is also taking part, as well as, of course, general members. I really think it's a complete monster. It's only about four o'clock and there's quite a few people in the room. It's here that we deal with the basics of politics, the basics we'll build on when all the other matters we're going to discuss, and we've even discussed in 1st. is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u70	A respectable president. I have to make a comment to the conference manager because the point was not made two for the point involved. A senator participated. I'm very excited about the President's conference board to complain about how the discussion of this important document has been conducted. Here's the highest. Minister on a swamp movie, just let's see it, and one bit. There's a senator in the hall. We're talking about a proposal for Congress that's supposed to apply to 2022, and it's thinner than a lady tie. Should we discuss it? There's nothing in this council resolution, this policy. There's nothing in it. I think the senators know, and that's why they're not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u71	A respectable president. I agree with the words of the previous speakers here. I thought it was strange not to see why. Thank you very much. There's a certain debate going on here about, for example. sale of banks that would have been interesting to hear the highest. Economic and financial ministers are involved. I'd like to remind you of one thing. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said: Yes, that's the least possible more things, but technically with a smaller proportion, with fewer votes than the smaller part of the council. It takes very little to be authorized at all. It is not a democratic agency that the administrative body has, it has a legal mandate under the vote of how Congress will spread between seats. [[The president calls.]] We must be careful about that, we must participate and respect democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u72	Madam President. I suddenly remembered the last time I was on my way out of the platform that here in the hall, I'm a member of the board. paritaprevir My dear Trausti Friðbertsson, who I was very happy to join in the town council, and he's involved in talking about my country's budget. You see, the importance of large - scale communication, the importance of developing areas of society as they grew old and spit into their job life to fluctuate, and then to be more careful when it was well gone and collected. As far as I can see, that's what I need in this financial policy. That's why I'm going to go. A senator is really going to agree with her, or is he going to come here and explain that he disagrees with her? In fact, only the board of directors are in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u73	A respectable president. I have to come up here for the second time to reiterate my complaint about how Congress has been conducted in this hall lately, especially when we are trying to have a discussion about one of the most remarkable collections of the next five years. Well, there's really no discussion about it. What is the point of this seminar if the other part is not prepared to come up here and defend its cause and reason with us why? Councilmen are discussing exactly what we need to discuss, the financial policy for 20171⁄2022? I feel a little bit like ghosts of the last term floating through lakes, that there's a huge lot more things that can push every subject through. It is very important that the government realizes that it has the least possible authority. That's why she needs to take it seriously. Her democratic commission is as thin as this council-sense proposal, so there's nothing to cry out to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u74	A respectable president. I would like to justify the importance that, on the basis of new laws on public finances, we are here discussing financial policy. On the basis of our policy, we get a financial programme and, on the basis of the plan, we get a budget bill. I'd like to make a decision to the world of Congress, and a respectable president, that it is too late to point to a narrow frame when it comes to talking about a budget bill if people have been looking in another direction when we discuss these matters. It is here that the foundation is laid and when it is the highest. He was translated into a health - care programme that was at the top of the current government program. It is here that we will discuss whether or not to build up in the interiors of society, health, education, etc. This document is a check for right policy, it is a prescription for privateisation and it is a prescription for cutdown in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're supposed to be here and that's why we're at the highest level. Minister to participate in this discussion because he has a very limited authority to represent more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u75	The president reminds the speakers to stay within a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u76	Madam President. I have sat in a councilroom and prepared for my talk on this matter, following the discussion here. What matters to me is that it seems that only two member members of the board have put themselves on the rosary. This is a very important matter, that we talk it over and over. It is vital that we understand the matter well, and I pray that more members of the board come to the rosary because this is a discussion that we all have to take. We all have to have this conversation together. It's very good to be in love. Secretary of finance has seen fit to attend, but we all need to stay here. We all need to have this conversation. It's all right to sit in the House and work on your speech, but we have to pay attention and observe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u77	Madam President. The financial policy of each government is put forward only once in terms of five years or until a new government sets out a new policy. The financial policy is one of the most important contracts of the season. It involves a great commitment to how to deal with government tax and spending policies. It must be adhered to by the government, but its review is under strict conditions. According to 1 0... the law on government finance can only be revised if the principal executives fail or predicted that they will fail because of economic failure, national or other causes that are impossible to handle. It is not enough that governments want to change their policy or that some weaknesses have been treated by the government of government that they prefer to reroute. If there is no spectacular event that causes the core policy to fail, the government should take action in a financial program that will result in the achievement of financial policy goals, whether on the income side or on the pay gate or under payment. Therefore, there is much concern that policy does not provide scope for further spending if forecasts become unrealistic and a recession becomes in the economy during the period and that it is not expected to increase the income of the nation's most prosperous people and of the companies that use our common resources in marine outlets, energy production, industry and tourism. It is particularly disappointing that in the proposal of the government and in the majority of the budgetary committees, there is no clear comment made by financial advisers. Legally, a financial agency is expected to evaluate the policy and comments of the Council, among other things, that the tourism needs to mark a clearer framework and to earn more money from the growing number of tourists. Then financial advice also makes serious comments that the plan does not take into account the practical correction. If so, it is clear that the expected amount of money left over should be greater. From the review of the financial board, it is clear that increasing income is needed so that the welfare system will not become a victim of delinquency if circumstances change in the economy and that governments can land into a straitjacket of financial policy. The government's financial policy is to become an old - fashioned government route to government affairs once again and again controlled by the right governments. The conclusion is that there will be no urgent improvement in health, education and welfare benefits, except for increased spells on users, i.e. People. It's unacceptable, and it's not in accordance with election code. Because of the importance of financialism and how difficult it is to change, it must be clear and transparent. Budget and financial debt benchmarks are set out as a proportion of GDP as expected by government financial legislation. A clearer presentation is preferable, such as with a total budget and income plan with and without capital teams, i.e. A plan for total equations and equations for each year of the strategy. A consideration of the billions of dollars'share will reveal that the maintenance will be 41 billion, i.e. The rest of the estate will be 41 billion in 2018 and 3 will be in the countryside. By the time we are back in 2022, we have been reduced in our stocks but grown in our rural communities. 2022 is due to have 37 billion delivered by the state, while the 7 rurals are to change the percentage from the estimated domestic product. But there is no support for these changes in financial policy. The law on public finances does not assume that goals are published in centenarians, nor would it be realistic - but good for those who have to deal with the policy, to see what numbers would be if predictions that are under the direction all followed, which, of course, will never really happen. However, it is important to turn these numbers into dollars so that people can understand what they mean. A financial body points out that considering the extent of uncertainty the future may bring, it is advisable not to encourage all financial groups. The Council believes that one percent of the remainder's targets is too accurate and points out that the government budget does not rule out a wide range of goals, e.g. with point estimates, one-sided or two-sided intervals, with or without conditional conditions. These comments are ignored by the government and by the majority of the budgetors. I find it strange, in view of the importance of the financial council, that more of the legal committees did not, in their members, respond to financial counsel's explanations, and the lack of logic of what is chosen to ignore them. It is said that there is no financial counsel. Yet, the law on public finances plays a very important role. The laws on government finance include both government and rural society. Farming is designed to ensure that part of financial policy maintenance is going on. We're not sure if our communities will live up to their share. There is no part of the government or the relationship between the Icelandic community and its member countries of the country's adopted budgets. Thus, it is all too likely that there will be a change in country society's planned survival as well as a huge difference in government funds. This has to be assumed in terms of the practicality of financial policy. Madam President. 2 smaller things add to the view that the debt of a state's debt has to be reduced and that, among other things, the use of monopolitan incomes is required to pay off debt. The financial rule of state funds is determined by the proportion of GDP, as is the second rule of the Order. Thus debt development is dependent on economic uncertainty. Also, the sale value of possessions making up the stability proposal is uncertain and 2 smaller items is considered very important to the public for the government's decision of the future bank system before deciding whether to sell the State's ownership share in the banks. As financial advice points out, the course for development needs to be cautious so that it does not prove too difficult to carry out, damage to sustainable society, or upset it. The course in debt, as it is presented in a budget of financial policy, is not transparent, and it is impossible to see where it leads to the longevity of financial policy. It is difficult to interpret the difference between debt and long - term commitments and financial advisers, however, that uncertainty is also involved. There is a large amount of money at the end of the retirement debt of state funds outside of the target debt. A financial policy report shows that it is desirable to ensure debt and financial space in order to offset future economic declines, i.e. that the survival and debt of the government need to give opportunities to use government funds in an easier balance. Instead of dealing with economic difficulties or economic failures, economic management projects are focused mainly on balance of good economic conditions. The report also says that there is expected to be a real growth in income and to pay a similar rate for the economic growth of the period. There is much conflict in the report, simply because the automatic fluctuation in terms of government money simply does not assume that income and expenditure will grow to the same extent. The balance is thus removed. A financial adviser points out that it would best not to be included in any type of expenses or on the income side but rather to include the built - in fluctuation. But it is not government policy that also ignores these financial tips. The tax system works by reducing the proportion of taxes on income when it's high and at the same time reduces the expense of the welfare system, such as unemployment improvements and income-related equations. The automatic equilibrium was weakened at the end of the last year when the intermediate level in the income tax system was removed. Thus, taxes do not increase as much as would otherwise have been. ASI points out, in his review of financial policy, that in the current year, a specific system change in income reduction will be 8 billion. which adds to the stimulus action that has been done on the income side of the budget in recent years, such as inflation measures and taxation changes, such as breakdown of fiscal taxes, reduction in hunting costs, and reductions in customs and consumption of taxes. As a result, government income institutions will not be sufficient to finance needed expenses for the welfare and infrastructure in spite of the uplift. This is the problem facing us, and it is necessary to draw more attention. Management reduces income resources, including ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In recent years, government institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of financial matters and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. Many urgent measures to improve health systems, education systems, transportation, and social security are urgent. Since automatic fluctuation is not to be used in the economy, the maintenance of financial policy is to use the welfare system as the main economy. It is carried out by means of unfunded intensive welfare improvements and infrastructure, as well as the weakening of child- and growth reforms. The obvious fact is that as the overall improvement of activity is reduced, there will be an increase in the welfare system or taxes, on the contrary, in the procrastination process. It is an unacceptable vision and policy that is incompatible with the baseline laws on public finances on sustainability, caution, stability and stability. There are five basic laws on public finances. The fifth is transparency. The government's financial policy is clear in that we know where it leads us. It is an old route that the right governments have taken over and over again. Clearly, if income sources are not used to finance needed financial and transport costs, the urgent improvements in financial policy duration will not be implemented. Other smaller things focus on the ASI, which closely rhymes with the Community policy, that trust in economic stability and social well - being must be exercised in a twofold way by governments. On one hand, the government's money market is an obstacle to a high-seat cycle on the income side and, on the other, an attack on major improvements, including those on the side of the job. in the field of health and aging, housing and social security and support of children's families by means of targeted financial measures. Such a two - fold operation could make a big difference in the effort of the labour market to create an agreement for a new approach to the preparation of collective agreements, while uncertainty and failure in welfare matters interfere with this work. Economic stability is important, but social stability is also important. These two must be together. If this is not the case, there will be no peace in a labour market or in an Icelandic society that will create conditions that will be of no benefit to us. A report on financial policy points out that there is light as a result of an increase in labour markets and housing markets, especially in the capital area. In such cases, increasing tourism has resulted in considerable support for the crown's gangs. The threat of continued expansion, which includes the growth of national expenditures beyond national production, and the support of the crew of the kroner's weakened position of exports overexploited. However, there is no indication of how to deal with this problem. The growth of tourism is widespread and requires further infrastructure as well as a dramatic impact on housing markets. Many apartments are rented for tourists instead of hosting families for housing problems. Both factors affect the economy, as well as the well - being of the country and the possibility of having a home. A financial body calls attention to the fact that the advances in tourism can significantly affect the stability of the economy in the coming years. The result of the growth of the preceding article has been a higher success, a worsening of the competitive position of exporting and evaporating the public. At the same time, it is not known whether or when a rising ordeal will begin to weaken the competitive status of tourism itself. Available risks may appear in the form of a sudden cessation or recession with the related effect on gangs, stability, and economic declines. This risk must be weighed. This is not done in a financial conference, and there is no discussion of the tax grants that the article has beyond the sector's sector, its impact, the disintegration of tax companies, or other currency to meet the urgent need for internalisation. For example, in the 2017 budget, tax grants for tourism in the form of a lower value tax rate were estimated at more than 20 billion dollars. The fact that one of the largest sectors enjoys such taxes while growth calls for Kingdom spending and is loudly complained about the lack of funds to build up the necessary wood to bear the growth of this article. The infrastructure, however, is essential so that it is possible to receive more tourists and to increase the risk of investments in the article to the future. If left unchecked, the public will carry the cost of potential contractions in the article and detoxification in the welfare system as a result of recession will be more difficult for those in need of the ministry. It is surprising that this largest economic solution from the government should not be discussed in a more detailed way in financial policy reporting and on scenarios of possible changes in the management environment of tourism during the period of financial policy. One of the greatest weaknesses of economic policy is that income and expenses are not assessed, taking into account the cost. As financial advice reveals in its review, the maintenance phase of public finance is presented at any given time in the economy of the adjusted prime. So, in the public financial discussion, it is necessary to discuss their situation in the light of the economy. Since this is not done in a financial study, the underlying factors and the real maintenance levels are uncertain. A financial body is not confident to conclude that its goal is sufficiently conservative in order to maintain stability and work on money policy. There is nothing more than a lawsuit against the government's financial policy, which speaks of the stability and discipline of economic management in another word but then sets out a policy that will not be changed for the next few years that will be unrealistic, all based on a highly economic forecast being followed by the year 2022. The Budget Council points out that it is fundamental to use the economic rhythm corrected goal when it is taken into account for the next five years. Even if there is some uncertainty in calculation of economic rhythm correction, it is necessary to base decisions on such calculations, especially in order to increase transparency. These practical suggestions are not taken into account, as are other indications. A financial adviser also points out that a narrow and inflexible financial rule may lead to unnecessary nationalisations and that governments can land in the excitement of their economic policy if the situation proves to be different from the economic forecasts. Madam President. That if the situation proves to be different from the economic forecasts - can this clear message be misunderstood? No, you can't. But the highest. The government and the more part of the budget decides to ignore it. It is incomprehensible that the government and the majority of the legal committees ignored financial advice and in no way took into account financial slang - adjusted aims or flexible implementation of maintenance goals. The financial rule presented in Article 7. The law on government financial matters is controversial, and it did not promote unity in the Assembly Hall when the law was accepted. The discussion pointed out that if the government wanted to establish a financial rule in the law, the economic rhythm corrected goals of normal production are set in comparison with unmoved living goals. With the implementation of environmental targets, there may be an increase in income production in excess of the financial regulations that allow for increasing public expenses that increase production duration and make matters worse. In a similar way, inflexible financial rule can increase production and unemployment. Also, an inflexible rule of subsidies can be damaging to society. 2 smaller things consider it necessary to act as soon as possible on official financial laws. In addition to legal financial regulations on the survival and debt of state funds, the government adds to a budget. The Directive states that the annual total pay of the official will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product over the period. According to financial policy report, annual expenses are estimated at more than 41% of GDP. A lower share suggests that the budget will be eliminated from its policy, which allows governments to set budgetary targets each year using a financial programme. It is unwise to set aside a budget in financial policy that is not expected to change with the economic situation. The budget will result in a contraction of the period, resulting in a contraction of the transport and welfare system. The ability to cope with this problem with increasing income, while maintaining expenses for GDP is not present if the budget is in force in a recession. It's completely unacceptable, so 2 smaller things are provided for the following change: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Madam President. 2nd smaller items contribute to this modification proposal. That the spending order should go away. This does not mean that 2 smaller things agree with other joints. It's a long way from here. We in the United States will vote against this policy. We feel that it is unsatisfactory and inflexible, it is not advisable to aim for practical information completely and to ignore anything that can happen when there is great uncertainty, especially in the nation's largest sectors today. Madam President. This financial policy is a right-hand policy. It is not a policy of a government that wants both economic and social stability. That's why I feel completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u78	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned a financial body that is, in fact, a large part of the laws on public finance, especially financial policy. However, it is required to sign that financial policies depend on the baseline values outlined in the official financial law. It is worthy to review the opinion of the financial Council in terms of sustainability, by permission of the President: However, one cannot conclude on self-sustaining debt without further policy and analysis of the impact of Penitentiary commitments on government debt as well as the overall economy. You see, this financialism is a little hollow. Indeed, there is a lack of predictions about the development of long - term commitments, especially the Penitentiary, but also about property, as is mentioned in the opinion of the greater portion. As a member of the budget board, I expected a change after asking the chairman of the legal committee if there was ever a change in motion, for the answer was always yes. I think we've all assumed that making changes would be based on the opinion of a financial body. I would be interested in hearing opinions. A senator of the financial council and whether it is not a clear follow-up for the legislature advice when it is so clear in its position that the baseline values are not being followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u79	Madam President. Yeah, I was expecting some adjustments, to be honest. The reviews were clear, especially from a financial council designed to evaluate policy, to be a person who looks independently and does not have political emphasis, saying: "If this happens to be like this or gay, it is likely to happen, and the other is going to happen, and to give advice. Which they do very carefully in their review, although they had only two weeks to prepare it. I think there's a need to look around the financial board, to strengthen it, and to give it more time to work. But when the financial adviser's review is to evaluate what they're supposed to consider, whether they're under there, and the financial rules are there, then the last sentence is, as with the terms of debt when the Council of finance has taken over them, they end up on this sentence, with the permission of a president: This confirmation does not provide an assessment of how likely this policy is to be reached. They have implied and reported their comments, e.g. about the debt, that they are very difficult to appreciate. It's very difficult to predict long-term commitments, as is set up in policy, and public financial legislation assumes that Penitentiary is not the law of debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u80	A respectable president. I just put a question mark on why financialism is presented today. There was no need for her to be put forward. It could be from 20181⁄223, or 2022 if it is until five years old from now on. There would be no need to contribute financial policies until the next budget, as it is a current financial policy for this year. I ask them mainly because they have holes in financial policy. It's missing, as I said before, the evolution of long-term commitments, property and other factors. It sounds strange, when there is something the law says is going to do, that they are being rushed to action. The financial adviser pointed out the same thing about his work, that having two weeks to tell him is just not enough work to do. This is, in fact, part of a larger discussion that the Parliament needs regarding the treatment of a law source. We were dealing with the bill on correcting the pensions of a former insurance agency, which was exactly the result of the same rapid treatment of the assembly. This is something that we need to take a closer look at and have more responsibility. I show the current government a certain pity to have this crisis of time because there was an election in October and a lot more strange than on a normal year trip. But reiterate, though, that by law it would not have been necessary to pursue a course now. I wondered if it would have been normal to wait with it only.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u81	Madam President. If we just look at the timing and see when the government has its work, which is in January, I think it was absolutely inevitable to set up financial policies today. It's in the law, if I remember correctly, that a new government should put economicism forward as soon as possible and at the latest with financial laws. It can work out if there's a vote in May or June. I wouldn't have wanted to sit in the government myself and follow the financing policy of the former government. I thought it was normal for financialism to come. As for the financial Council, however, the last budgetary committee went to Sweden to find out how the financial council works there. We asked them: " Is there any message, or is there anything in particular that you would like to give us advice on? They had already examined what we had, and we had studied their work. Then the director of the Swedish Council of Economics said: "There may be one thing we'd rather hear for the council. But they're under the secretary's office. It's the same with us. We tried to make these changes, that financial council heard the council coming to the council. If we had a national economy - and a proposal and a bill to establish it - that institution could function for the council and for the minister of finance and hear the council. I think that would be a wish we should try to aim for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u82	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for her contributions here in the discussion. I agree with what. A senator that is uncertain about the basics of this financial policy. But there are aspects of her report that I find quite interesting and would like to get more information about at ease. A senator who says that tax allowances for tourism in the form of a lower worth tax rate are estimated at over $3 billion. By permission of the president, this further states: ▪ It will explain that just as growth calls for Kingdom spending, one of the largest sectors enjoys such taxes and that there is a loud voice of complaint about the need to build up the needed wood to bear the growth of this article. I'd like to hear it from who. When it comes to travel, a senator will know what it has to do with a modest way of earning money. Is it a thought of a moderate worth tax or a reimbursement tax in certain sectors? Or are there other ways? I'd like to hear those ideas ripped off by force. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u83	Madam President. How unwise it is when we have a business in so much growth as our tourism is, not to prepare it just for general management conditions. It grows to such an extent that it replaces other occupations. It resides in an environmental and environmental environment, which is more practical than other articles. I think it's obvious that we're supposed to bring a worthy tax to the hosting and recreation for tourists up to the general level of merit taxation. It is so unwise that this part of the ministry is in 11% of the value of taxes, such as food, energy, books. In such a situation, the cry is that it lacks funding for building wood. Who can understand it? Of course, these adjustments should not be made on a monthly basis. Although we used 18 months to change the fee, as the tourism itself says it would require, we do. Let us give the article an opportunity to prepare for that change. In the meantime, we can put on a coming fee, but that would only give us about one fifth, top of all, of what the merit tax change would give us. She could join both the state and the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u84	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for your answer. I also wondered, as a result of her reply, " Can I think of some kind of merit tax returns to film a rental car? ' Maybe that'd be more thoughtful for the highest. Secretary of finance, if he were in this room. I am concerned with the elements of the State. As noted in a committee list. In recent years, a senator has been weakened by the income of the State. This reduces the maintenance of government funds and the scope for needed improvement in the well - being and welfare systems. I'm interested in the idea of why. A senator on how she envisions the funding of the largest government income institutions, just to meet the damage we've seen in the infrastructure, in the health and welfare system, in order to strengthen these infrastructures that the government groups spoke very highly of in the process of the election. I'd love to hear some ideas. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u85	Madam President. I think it's obvious that the state's budget has to be returned more money than policy is expected. I can't think of challenging financial advice when it reaches that conclusion. Of course, we should look to our resources. We're supposed to look at a resource of energy companies, increased revenues from tourism, like we went over the previous counter, and markets or higher fishing fees. I feel that's what I'm looking at. This could be run into a stability fund if people want to start a fund next to a debt fund. All right. Of course, I think that's totally possible. But there must be room within the financial policy to use it in this swinging fund. If this policy succeeds and there's a breakdown in the economy, we couldn't use the fund to raise our expenses during the down cycle by a law order that doesn't have to be set by law but as the government decided to set itself. A spending policy is set to make sure that if we get into trouble, those in need of welfare services will be affected. That's what I feel is so completely unacceptable to this course. Although many things are bad, this attitude of the right government, which is now setting a course for the next five years, cries out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u86	A respectable president. The goal of accepting a pactary proposal for financialism is to promote economic management. The financial policy is to deal with the scope and survival of the government as well as the development of property, debt and long - term commitments to at least five years of age. The policy to recognize how baselines on sustainability, security, stability, stability and transparency are applied to the development of paying, tax policy and government revenues. In this body of Congress proposal, the government's financial policy is presented. Who, exactly, is the policy? According to the government law, financial policies are divided mainly into three things: the scope and survival of the government. The development of property, debt and long-term commitments and, finally, a report on the implementation of a predefined baseline policy. The total government budget should not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product and remain between 1561.6% of the period. These goals are very clear, and it will be easy, if not interesting, to keep track of them. Then I think in particular about the payment of the 2017 budget, where income was found and the massage was shaken back and forth, and it was very interesting to see what billions of dollars fell from it and where they came from. Debates should be made from 44% of gross domestic product at the end of 2016 to 26% in 2022. It is, of course, an expansive debt of pension and the debt of public enterprises. While the proportion of debt is high in the Committee's list of larger sections, a decrease in the total debt of the public, including companies, it is unclear whether the amount of pensional commitment is included, only goes down by 66 billion dollars. in the five years of policy development. The decrease in the financial policy is explained by increasing GDP and by not taking into account the pension debt or the debt of public enterprises. The total debt reduction is only about 4.35% if the debt of public enterprises is included. In addition, the government's Penitentiary is expected to increase in years to come. It is remarkable, then, that the policy that essentially says that a decrease does not really achieve its goals better when considering the total debt of the public. However, the aims for the development of debt are clearly set out, so you will be able to keep track of what goes on in those areas. This is only true of the debt of state funds. What's interesting in policy is that all irregular incomes of the state's budget and other subsidies are expected to be spent to reduce debt or pension bonds. This expression is very decisive and clear, and the consequences of that decision might be interesting. There's always a billion people around here or there to see how they'll be protected. I think the temptation to defend him in some type of project might even be more tempting as the terms of the term pass over than to use it to reduce debt. So I look forward to seeing this claim, or expression, carried out. The proposal for a political resolution on financial policy is nothing about the development of possessions unless it is about how the stability proposals are spent, but it is referred to by the Commission as being more of a part of the government investment and sales of the government's stakes on the business industry. In my case earlier, it was suggested that there is a certain discrepancy between what seems to be the words of the secretary of finance and the opinion of the committee of the greater part, as it is also assumed that there should be no debate at the General Assembly on how to conduct bank sales. It gives the preeminent position of the Generals that there will be a sale. Searching for ways to invest without encouraging this development, it is noted that most of the next few years will be in the southwestern corner of the country and that the transport system needs to be considered. It has to be said, as it is, that this is not a very clear policy, for these comments are part of a committee party that has no parallel in financial policy itself. It is therefore unclear which part of the financial policy is being explained by this committee's opinion. It is similar with regard to long-term commitments. The financial policy does not comment on the evolution of long-term commitments, but the situation is slightly tore in the leading wing of the section. It reviews government interest rates, combinations of loans between domestic and foreign countries, and what is the preferred rate of public debt of GDP. Pension commitment's position is slightly reviewed, preferably B-in ER, and their financing need over the next few years. This does not have a course, just where the present situation will lead us. One of the main objectives of financial policy is to reduce interest costs. This goal is not specifically explained in financial policy, but in the Commission's list, interest costs are expected to be 50 billion dollars. or 1.6% of gross domestic product in 2002. Considering how much straitjackets, as mentioned earlier, are really not necessarily the means to achieve only the object of payment for banks'sales in such a state. So it's a one-way fight. A list of baselines is their dictionary definition and why values should be in financial policy. Here I am reviewing these reports at baseline, and it's to explain how they're getting into financial policy. The chapter on baseline is not an article on how these values are achieved and can be carried out, but only a dictionary definition. There is no confirmation that the direction is based on the baseline values. The government's policy of paying taxes, tax policy, and other government income is simply empty beyond the fact that it is expected to follow GDP over time. Now, it's been interesting to observe the cooperation of rural society. The Committee informed us that an agreement had been established that had not yet been established. In the drafts we received, the only agreement in this document seems to cover a set accounting principle in the production of municipal financial organizations and the final debt of the rural communities at the end of the term period or at the end of financial policy. Anything else that is quite tore up is, in fact, that continued discussion should take place. When we returned the commission, there was no agreement and this should be taken into account in terms of the text I have in my opinion of the committee. Budget goals are clear. It presents a stable proportion of GDP that the state's funds will be turned over and used for subsidies. However, the reduction in rural society is expected to be balanced, although the publication of the European Union's Association shows that the survival of rural communities will be negative between 2017 and 2018. Farmers have long organized financial plans for 2017, and it is very difficult to make plans for 2018 very difficult. It is very nice to set a policy that assumes a constant operation, but it is not normal to put numbers that look good on paper when it is expected to be a different result. It's not working. Official financial laws require consultation between the state and the community. A third smaller section was expressed at a meeting on the committee that the members of state and rural society have merely agreed to disagree on the goals for recovery. A third of my things asks if the State can force its targets on rural society through the government's financial policy. Obviously, rural communities are to make their plans, such as in financial policy. Council does not mean that the State tells rural society what to do. Some comments were received about the financial agendas, from ASI, Reykjavíkurburg, Government Reservation, National Society Association, Business Association, Business Association, Industrial Association, Secret Bank Association, Official Business Council, and as a law on official financial matters assumes financial matters. A common review was that the remainder was not sufficient. A few members said that the maintenance would have to be 2% of the gross domestic product based on the current economy. Otherwise, economic predictions could be very difficult. Advisers missed the cost of fictitious imaging analysis. The current economic situation and the prospects are considered slightly, but there is no discussion of the challenges of economic policy if there are any other prospects in the general world. It would be particularly useful to have a straggler for the biggest risk factors and to have the impact of their fluctuations on the goals of financial policy. It may be easy to point to developing in tourism or fishing roads, electrical energy companies, aluminium companies, etc. The financial policy, however, aims that the public's overall share will not exceed 41.5% of GDP. As the current position is very close to the current economic update criteria, it is expected that it will be difficult to achieve e.g. The aims of development will not be as powerful as economic forecasts expect. In the historical setting, if economic forecasts persist, it would be the longest economic growth in the history of Iceland. According to one historian, it is unlikely that the economic crisis will last for so long, and there is really nothing in this course that could move or help keep this economic growth going. In fact, it is expected that outsiders, or powerful, will maintain this economic growth. A simple straggility analysis of the Business Council shows that if economic growth became one percentage lower, it would mean a slope conflict in the latter part of the policy period. This would put great pressure on key goals, such as loans and debts. One of the main objectives of government funds, based on financial policy, is the Federal Affairs and Management Board, but it is clear that it will be relatively easy to observe whether the objectives of the budget and the extent of public funds presented in the financial policy will be carried out. The challenge must be to determine whether the evolution of debt and long - term commitments will follow some course toward achieving goals. It is virtually impossible in the case of the development of government property, which is not discussed in the financial policy of the government. So complete is financial policy that sets three goals for the next five years: the scope and survival of the government. We have clear boundaries. The development of property, debt, and long-term bonding. There are indelibly lacking and with little sense of direction. A policy on the development of property and long-term commitments. There is also a lack of policy, especially with regard to the long-term binding and complete development of possessions. Baseline values will then not be given any attention unless they are explained as in a dictionary. It's got holes in it. It lacks the policy that should provide the basis for a financial agenda. It is not only possible to look at the overall details and say: "We gave up the rest we had planned, were within the scope of our debt and dropped it, as we said we would. The way they reached their goals matters. The financial policy discussed here provides an empty check on the implementation of financial programmes and budgets for the next five years. Official financial law states that the baseline transparency, with the permission of the president, was: A periodic comparison of targets and effectiveness with clear scales should be made. How is it possible for the Council to monitor the budget when there is no goals or standards missing? A third smaller section was announced at committees that there was a change in financial policy proposals. Rather, it seems that the greater part has decided to take advantage of its majority opinion in order to better clarify certain financial goals. Without reference to the proposal's text, however, they are not meaningful. If property development policies are missing in financial policy, no explanation can be made in a committee's sort of policy. If there were explanations, there would have been a modification proposal to the Senate resolution, I would have thought. This financial agenda will cause us problems in the next five years. It is mainly because it will be difficult to see how financial and financial laws follow the policy missing points and also because of the tensions created in the present environment. In the environment requiring health structure, housing structure, education-enforcement, and plough roads, the criteria are 41.5% of public expenses, all monopolies in debt, and that income and expenses should follow an increase in GDP, a very dangerous line dance. It does not require a field-of-view analysis, but it does not need a mathematician to see that if there is no growth in the number of tourists, if there is a slowing down in a housing market or some hiccup in the areas that have advanced economic growth in the past few years, it will be difficult to enforce the policy and work at the cumulative maintenance needs of society's infrastructure at the same time. It is as if there were hope and hope of remaining interest, of the bank selling, and of someone else doing things again. It simply lacks a government policy on how it will maintain this economy, for increase in income and pay in equal terms to GDP maintains the proportion that has been going on. Then, I guess, as history tells us, we're simply following inflation. In recent years the historical fact has been overlooked in Iceland, but there is no reason to expect it to last a long time. I hope the economy continues, of course. But if he does not, we will have problems with this financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He's cut off a lot of things that matter here. I just want to discuss it, especially the debt debt that is not solidly based, seems to be in the opinion of a financial body. Hv. A senator in his opinion says that it may take considerable monitoring to observe all irregular incomes that will not be spent in subsidies. I'd like to ask the senator if he agrees that all that money is spent on subsidies, or does he feel that it will be easier to pay off debt and try to save the infrastructure along with it? I don't think growth is the kind of thing that was shown in a case. The head of the budget board should be formed by subsidies. Hence, you do not trust that there will be enough space to follow the ideas you expect people in general to pay off debts. Besides, I'd like to ask the senator about the investments. They need a long - term view of investments. Got it. Not that it's supposed to be in the policy, that it's in the spirit of the law, that it's not enough for me to be in a financial program that's being revised every year, but that it needs to act in the direction that we can figure out the scope?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. We always need to ask: Is this an irregular amount of money and monotonous money? If the answer is yes, it's to pay off debts. However, we need, feel, to ask where and how the funds are most useful. For example, if we had to fill in the holes in the transportation system, it might now be worth more than what we make money on paying off the debt and interest we're paying for in five years. It is definitely my position to use the money of the public in the most practical way. The investments. Now it is simply that the law on public financial matters states that there should be information on the development of possessions and policy on the development of possessions in financial policy. It's missing. Of course, the emphasis should be made so that you have some idea of what will appear in financial programs and funding during the five years. When there is no need, when something suddenly appeared in a financial program, you do not know whether there is a transformation of some course or not, then it may be that in a financial program a year later, there would be a change in a different direction. Who knows? When financial resources are available, as I put it, you can do anything in the financial agenda without saying, " But this wasn't the goal. '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u89	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In fact, it is true that property, property records, and possessions should remain in the course of a policy because, as shown by the financial adviser, it must be maintained in order to assess the state of possessions and such things. But we know that it's definitely being won in the Ministry. We've got some information on it, and it's fine. But I wondered, because of the highest. There is a minister sitting here, whether there are any ideas of providing this map of property because he does not publish a different course during this election period, and in what way it will be done, because it was not ready now. Then I'd like to ask him why. A senator for what is going on in the financial council. Hv. A senator merely introduced a field analysis, a spending rule, and such. He agrees that the spending rule is really a political matter, i.e. to evaluate what the government's expenses should be, and that it should not be attached here in the document, as this is being done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u90	A respectable president. The majority of the legal committees reported that they could at least have made some of this account, or what they called him, so it is surprising that such a thing was not done. Although he was not yet fully prepared, he could have been doing some kind of plan, or it would be at least I'd like to have the overview. As for the second question, I forgot to carve it down, I'm awful when I forget to scribble. What was it again?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u91	Then I was talking political stuff...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u92	That's right, 41.5%. I feel that it is courageous for them to say so even though they did not have to. If this is a goal they want to set for themselves, I just look forward to watching it. [[The point is: Should it be placed in the law?]] To attach it to the law? Not necessarily. I think it's an interesting experiment and it'll be nice to see how it's going to work. If she's doing well, it'd be interesting to put her in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u93	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator says that if we only go through the fact that debt ratios will be dropped to 26% in 2022, and so is the case here in the opinion of more of the billions where they should appear in shrinks and ups and so forth. If I recall this correctly, the state will have a drop of 80, 90 billion, the public business will rise by 12 and the countryside will probably be about 17 billion. This is indicated by the opinion of the 3rd smaller things and may be the question. The total debt reduction is only about 4.35% if the debt of public enterprises is included. Then I'd like to ask the senator: "Do you feel that this is a little too low on a debt that comes out, because it's implied that this is the way it is? Of course, this decrease in debt rates is actually seen in this strong interest that is being predicted in the years to come, and that's kind of the question, "See why. " Any senator leads to further debt reduction, since this is said to be the case in the view of a smaller portion of the 3rd?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u94	A respectable president. What I'm most about to catch is the dissociation of various debt types, which should be in there under official financial law, i.e. Government funds or government companies in general. It's fine to get the disassemble. But the development of a debt in policy itself is considered only, not the pension debt or the corporate debt, but the development of a state's debt. That 66 billion bucks. I feel too weak because the main objective of the policy is a decrease in debt. I'll be happy to admit that the debt of the state's funds is a blessing, but there are other factors that need to be taken into account, and sources of information, including financial advice, especially on the debt of pension. If we take them completely out of parentheses and focus on the debt of state funds, it's a bit off the wrong foot. I would've liked to see it through. Here are state funds, they fall well, it's cool, I give a very positive report about it, and I hope that goals are achieved, but there is no long-term bonding trend, where pension commitments are involved, but there is no policy. It's just about what the future will be like if we don't do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u95	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Of course, economic growth is desirable. I would like to ask him if he will feel as uncomfortable as I am in terms of achieving a decrease in government debt ratio of GDP primarily through the rise in GDP rather than a significant decrease in federal debt. This is shown in Article 3 less part of the trial of 4.35%. I put it in the context that 1% of GDP is today about 30 billion dollars. which will be paid back this year according to this schedule. At the same time, government funds pay just over 70 billion dollars. at interest costs. Counts 'em out. A senator that can be returned more quickly, e.g. by trying to get some sort of lower interest in the money? It is now also assumed that growth in GDP will decrease over time. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this increase in leftovers to 1.6% of GDP can withstand the level of government spending and inflation development, and so on, if economic growth declines? I don't see how this can stand unless it's only done more than the government has already proclaimed. It's in my opinion of the maintenance phase which assumes that the interiors of the country continue to rot. I'd love to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u96	A respectable president. Thanks for the good questions. These are definitely the problem rather than the financial debt of the state. When we compare the state's debt status with the debt ratio of gross domestic product recommended to keep a market going, we are not that far from it, at least not at the end of the season. Emphasis on lowering the interest rate is, in my opinion, the primary goal rather than reducing the debt, that is, the interest cost that is greater. How to achieve 1.6% if there is no more economic growth than expected? It is simply according to the policy that the goal to be achieved is by selling banks. I think that's what the policy says. I'd guess. I don't know how to get it any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u97	Mr. President. I thank you for these answers, and I must agree with what you have heard here many times: To hear that one of the stripes is going down in this policy of selling banks, but to the other class is not necessarily a financial minister. It will be interesting to see how things work out as they work together. In this context, I also want to ask you why. A senator whether it is wise for us, although it seems that we can cross to a fine level and even fulfill the Maastricht conditions if so far, to hang the people's product so much on a show as a government, and the Council has, in fact, extremely little power over, i.e. gross domestic product, which is actually in the hands of the economy at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u98	I didn't write a law on public financial matters, and I didn't write it, and I'm supposed to set some standards. Normally, we may be able to use this size to imagine what is happening, but there are probably more sizes that can be used, and I know why. A senator has the rhythms. GDP is a difficult business for us, we are following this amount of money, which is a guess; when we're making loans, making debts, we're making new money and trying to avoid inflation or inflation and stuff like that. This is a certain gym class I think would be taking more variables into. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's really my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u99	V.E.G. President. In Comb 4. track No. 123/2005 says that the government, after it is formed, shapes financial policy, which the Ministers submit to the Council in the form of a proposal for Congress as soon as possible, but no later than the rest of the next bill's contribution to budget. The General Assembly resolution of financial policy to five years of age should be proposed as a synopsis for a financial strategy proposed each year to the General Assembly. A financial program then lays the groundwork for a financial bill submitted by a government every year in the fall of the year. The government has proposed a Senate resolution on financial policy, but it has not been decided to cancel it for a second discussion, suggesting that it does not exist solely within the government. A more positive overall state and community survival is being required than before. There was a state and rural society that made an agreement and went on to the real grounds for the continued decline in debt ratio. A meeting was not achieved, so a fourth part of the estimate is that economic policy aims are completely unrealistic, as it is clear that rural areas are not able to meet their share of economic targets published in financial policy. This is where I want to shoot it in like the rest of us. In our discussion today, members of Congress have noted that some form of agreement had been reached. We received a document, at least members of the budget board, unsigned. As long as we don't have anything more formal than that in our hands, I don't really think that this committee opinion was completed before we received the above letter. But it is critical that governments offer one - sided goals for their communities without agreement with them. That's the situation. Another key element of memory section 4 feels that if financialism is insurmountable, it is the government's promise of growinginvestment at the same time that is being proclaimed as the increase in financial security. Such declarations are malicious and indicate that the government is not ready to follow the policies that are presented in the Senate arrangement for which this is being discussed. It should be noted, however, that there is always room for change at a government fund, which is intended for certain projects, but the main objective of the government is to cover debt. However, the proposal to be a government fiscal policy has been agreed on to contribute to the year 2017,2022. A smaller section disagrees that a new financial policy will take place in 2017 where the current year's policy was adopted and expected to be out of this year. Hence, it would be normal for the government to release 2017 but to promote financial policy before 2018,2022. The emission targets set up in financial policy by Part A are considered unrealistic. The next year's financial programmes are binding rules for all financial measures on the part of the rural community. A small section of criticism is that the government needs to look for further cooperation on the basis of the provisional objectives of rural society after the State Policy has been submitted, but the rural communities have hoped that this deliberation will result in a review of the policy targets and a common view of prospects there. This suggests that the government has already failed to establish the necessary changes in order to ensure the advancement of new laws on government of public finance by applying a single - sided authority in what was to be a communication process for the benefit of all. There is an overwhelming chance that the subsidies of a country's debt will be unrealistic, as previously said, and that the expansion of government financial policy will not be maintained. If that is the case, the principles of the law will prove to be limited but planned. A minimum of 4 percent stresses reducing the budgets laid on the rural population in the State Policy so that they can continue to pay off debt at normal speed and maintain the necessary level of construction. Finally, increasing our share in taxes, including the end of the year, is important. In view of the increase of the underdeveloped projects that have been placed on the rural areas. V.E.G. President. The financial policy should be based on baseline levels of sustainableity, caution, stability, transparency and commitment in public finance and should address the extent, supply and development of property, debt and long-term commitment of the official overall and not less than five years of age. The course is presented as a proportion of GDP as recommended by the law, but there is no traceable value on the estimated domestic product at any given time. Although a budget has received information on them from the Habitat, section 4 feels that such information should be presented in the policy itself to help clarify the facts to anyone who wants to study them. Also, a fourth will consider that the whole objective of the policy should be published to an absolute value that is more likely to be used by public readers than the proportion of the same size as this one. Although the scope of the policy should be published in accordance with the law, this is alluded to a policy that will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product over the period. The orders of the law, however, are considered to be a 4th lower percentage in which the total wealth of the state's funds cannot be determined. There is no overview of the development of property as required in the law. There is therefore nothing about investment policy, which, in the opinion of the fourth degree, is not perfect enough, nor is it designed to create a reliable and long - term view of the government's investments. Also, the change in property composition is not defined, but in the new government law, property, previously taxed, is expected to be owned. These include tunnels, roads, land, buildings, and rivers. The policy, therefore, does not provide an overview of the changes and the goals of this most important change. Also, commitment development is not defined as being required in the law. It is therefore a fourth minimum estimate that there was a need for improvement in information regarding policy debates in order to meet minimum legal requirements. A respectable president. On the basis of the State Economic Policy, public income increases to a large extent in terms of the name growth of GDP, or some 60 billion dollars. every year. At the same time, expenses grow by 50 billion dollars. every year. A smaller 4th section feels that a clearer explanation must be made for the provision of the space here formed. In addition, less 4th objects do not agree with the financial policy guidelines, i.e. remaining in the overall balance of the official period 2017/2022, which will be at least 1.0% of GDP in 2017, at least 1.6% of GDP in 2018 and 2018 but reduces by 0.1% of GDP per year thereafter, all will be spent to reduce debt. We criticize how fast we plan to pay off the total debt of the public, but we estimate that they will reach 30% of GDP by the end of 2019 and will not exceed 26% of GDP by the end of 2020. Furthermore, we do not agree to defend all irregular and uniting funds in the state's funds to reduce debt and the financial resources of pension commitments, as well as to consider the urgent structure of infrastructure, such as health systems, education systems, and transportation. My fourth section feels that a clearer explanation of the government tax policy needs to be made and where the emphasis will be placed on the time of the policy. This calls for identifying the goals and development of the taxpayer and how the transfer system will be applied during the period. We stress that there will be a mixed way to decrease as well as certain changes in the tax system. This involves the recording of natural tax, resource tax, and public health tax and the making of changes in funding taxes in those with only capital gains. Section 4 wants to reevaluate the tax system in accordance with the recommendations of the International Remuneration Fund, which were further developed by the Commission of Communications for increased prosperity. These ideas include a dramatic decrease in the rate of taxes and a personal discount. We suggest that the state funds add new taxes. In this regard, 4th will consider it less important to add a new amount of money to tourists coming to the country (the natural cost mentioned above) which accounts for about 3 billion dollars. Every year in state funds. There will be temporary spells that will be devoted to needed building up for three or five years. At the end of that time, the tax value will be set aside for a resounding action in the future. The receipt has to be attached to the direction of tourists to the country so that natural fees, passenger bills, or landing charges will vary between flights and seasons. We believe that insurance costs are increasingly due to flow to the countryside. It also needs to be revised in the way it is put in motion, but in our opinion it should be a certain percentage of the cost of lodging, not a fixed dollar number, which includes indiscriminates between those who sell in different prices. A minimum of four sections feel that improved resource taxes are to be provided and protected from their worth in order to build stability funds. It's a 4th smaller part that public health taxes have to be put on. Finally, we stress that those who have only alimony of money pay normal amounts of money in response to rural society. V.E.G. President. In view of intensive economic growth, space has been created to slow down the payment of a government debt. A smaller section of 4 feels that too much emphasis is placed on a rapid subsidies on the debt of state funds. Instead, the payments should slow down and spend more money for building up. We want to pay attention to the fact that the government policy is not taking into account the practical correction of the economy. Therefore, the remaining items that you are going to not be caught are likely to be removed and thus cannot be set aside to build up the necessary structures. It shows that in terms of economic policy, the continued high economic growth is taking place over its time, followed by one of the longest economic growths in the country's history. A fourth small part pays attention to such optimistic programs. We believe that a share of the expected market value of the bank needs to be established instead of paying off debt as quickly as it is now planned for the state financial policy. Before the sale of banks, an extensive tenant policy must be established as a community agreement, while one of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period covered with the sale of state funds, particularly through business banks. On the basis of written prices, the share of state funds in big business banks is about 450 billion dollars. Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands nearly complete, with about 13% of shares in Arazon's bank. Clearly, the subsidence of the State's debt depends largely on how it works through the sale of these assets. A smaller section of 4 feels that there will be a need for careful discussion at the General Assembly for the future and ownership of the business banks. Questions need to be answered, such as how the banks will be best prepared for sales. They need to be reviewed and assessed prior to sale. The banks have their own financial standings and are, in effect, overcrowded. It is necessary to make decisions as to whether it is right and reasonable that before selling banks, they will make a special contribution in a government fund with a decrease in their own money. Trade sales of the government's assets must be planned in the business banks, thus building trust in the trade process. See if it would be wise to consult foreign sources for advice and management for sale. This could increase confidence in the process of sale and create the peace that is essential. Before that time, there will be a question of how the government believes that the bank will be the best possession in the long term. A framework for the maximum shareholders may have to be set and limited cross-created whenever possible. Abnormal, undesirable conflict of interests and relationships must be prevented. A lower section of the world draws attention to the fact that a financial and business committee is in preparation for the sale of the state's holdings in banks and the future financial markets. Since the role of the legal committee is among the subjects of the State's holdings, much of that section will have an active share in this discussion and will give attention to its emphasis. The objective is to sell banks forward until the preceding more detailed discussion and to be taken care of for public interest, including by having the trade process transparent and open. A section 4 suggests that the government's policy needs to be reviewed in public societies, evaluating whether and to what extent government companies can make decisions on investments that make it necessary to limit the implementation of government funds. The government believes that they are seeking to ensure that the activities of the public are owned by but not against established economic goals. It is difficult to use the ideal maintenance level in these companies over the next few years where there is a great need for infrastructure development, to form in the field of air transport and energy sharing, as well as to meet the needs of existing energy sources. According to the government, new investments are to be based on clear interestors, and they need to be timed on the economic outlook. A lower section of the country, however, feels that the problem of smaller areas is not to be forgotten, so it is dangerous to let only clear interest in money dictates investments, where investments in scattered areas could easily be ignored if this policy is the case. In addition, a smaller 4 - year - old points to the need to focus on national interest, which involves much more factors than conventional interest calculations. In less than four sections, the state has already to start transport in areas where its impact is low. In our opinion, this policy does not seem to be sufficiently careful about the viewpoints of the scattered population. However, it is very important to consider the impact of different investments and initiatives in individual areas, as well as the effects on the national and capital areas. Large parts of the country have not experienced expansion or economic growth. This has further been the case with contractions or collapse. The largest official projects for the next few years will be on the southwestern corner of the country, i.e. The construction of a new land hospital and massive expansion of the Keflavík Airport. A land exchange needs to be kept in mind when setting priorities for public investment projects. V.E.G. President. This is right in the end, reminding 4th that the need for special control of public work as a whole is being done by public partners, such as Isavia and Landsnet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for the careful discussions that have been here on the financial agenda and would like to agree. How important this approach is and how important it is that we discuss it. I can also agree with many of the viewpoints presented here. The course bears any testimony that we are doing this for the second time. We will certainly learn from this every time we work this course. Ideas about this will have come in the financial Minister's time of the day. Oddný I'm sorry. I'm saying it's very important that we procrastinate a longer-term policy. I'm also going to say that I agree. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdótttir, yes, I apologize, that there's a problem selling banks. [[Get in front of me, Gunnar's daughter.]] I think I've been able to agree with every word I've ever heard. A senator there said. All I want to do is explain in terms of a budget rule or something. The matter has been discussed by members of the council. It is based on a fixed share, but when we reduce the remainder of the government's business, which will take place in the latter part of the period, and it also reduces government interest payments as a proportion of GDP, we have room for perhaps about $40 billion worth of money to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u101	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend the highest. Minister of Benedikt, Jóhannesson's son, for sitting here listening to the entire discussion and participating in it by giving an answer. What a fine example! We agree that we need to be careful about the procedure in carrying out these new laws. We're all at the beginning. This committee has been on the budget for about three months, as long as it was the highest. A minister has been in the Ministry, so we're all trying to get on with it and trying to figure out how to win it. As we have seen, the key point is that we are all working within the same frame. There's been a miscommunication, and I'm pointing back to my communities, that the induction process hasn't worked out well enough. We have time. We naturally just keep trying to reach out for the important task. We also agree on that, me and the highest. Minister, that the whole process around the banks is needed for sale, or what? I want to take advantage of this opportunity and ask the highest. Minister because there's a certain discrepancy in the highest court. Ministers on the other hand. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, on the sale of the banks. I'd like to ask directly, "Is there any room to start a business on the banks soon, or is there any rush? " How is the time frame regarding this very important task that has the potential for key financial significance?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u102	Mr. President. I want to know before I ask you a question. A senator will discuss only matters discussed by several senators, i.e. Why don't we spend more on wood at the same time as we've got more money to pay for? The answer to that is that we want to have the rest of the experience when there is tension in society, but at the same time we are paying off debts of living in favor of future generations in order to spend more on the fine things we all agree to do, e.g. the health system and the social security system. [[Up front.]] In addition, I would like to say about the state of the estate that was referred to here: When a reimbursement is completed and a new bill is implemented, a government plan will, of course, be submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u103	V.E.G. President. I am disappointed that I have not received a clear answer from the highest degree. Minister on the timing of bank sales. Is that the course to start this year, next year, next year, next year? Sometime in the season? I would love to know. This is a big deal, especially in this financial discussion for five years. Yes, at the highest. Ministers agree on the need for infrastructure. The one present also recognizes the importance of paying off debts to reduce growth rate and the effects of expansion that may follow the build-up of the infrastructure. However, the fourth thing in memory is that the interiors cannot wait at all. We suggest that there is a separate route, in effect. Yes, we keep on paying off debts and trying to get them back, but we don't have to go so hard. [[The president calls.]] We need to cross the line.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u104	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to mention a few things, and I agree with her that I was disappointed that I didn't come up with any comments about bank sales, clear answers, but I've been reminded today that some equipment is about how the classes approach that matter. Hv. A senator will talk in his opinion about local societies like the rest of us and the crew we got yesterday. It says, by permission of the president, that there is a goal in the rural budget and financial production: The accuracy and quality of the data are foretold and should be developed in the following months to establish a common conclusion on the grounds and to reexamine the objectives of the agreement if necessary. In itself, nothing has changed since our view of this matter. It is still inexpensive, and it is not in itself with these goals that I consider to be of little value to me. But I wanted to ask her only about the role of a financial body. I and others have talked about the opinion of a financial body. We worked in the last term to make these laws, discussing financial resources, how it should be set up, what its role was, and so on, and I find very little to be said about financial advisers. It would be interesting for the Minister to give in the discussion here - I'm sure he can be brought into contact with the members of Congress - an explanation for this financial council. How is it going to work? If, in effect, it is to give a thorough opinion, provide serious tips that seem unreceptive - how does the senator feel about it? How does he see this advice?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u105	A respectable president. So, as far back as the legal frame we're now working on, and we're testing ourselves: Talk about professional work practices and coordination between partners working in this new system, it's really embarrassing, I'm going to say, that we're getting an unsigned document the night before the conference's discussion takes place. I can also tell you from here that the brief came not even from the Ministry of finance but from the relationship. Timing - I could say too much, but it's a bad practice and be minimizing what we're doing. We work hard to write committee views and try to form our stand together with our council and with others. But having so much as 15 minutes before a discussion is a shame, I think. The Budget Council: Recently we were visited by the committee and presented for its role. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. You could understand that it was a group of experts that framed things in, had active surveillance out of economys and other things to make sure that it was now all the right thing to do, that we'd achieve the desired results for the increased maintenance, discipline, and better care for the money. The financial adviser makes these very important comments, and they are not taken into account. I can't quite figure it out. I do not fully understand the role of the council if it seems to be not to be taken more seriously than it seems to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u106	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. This is exactly what we need to take a conversation about on a budget committee, how we can picture this on the basis of the Council. I realize you can't fix everything like that right now. Because of the circumstances in which we lived after the election, we have little time to prepare. However, this does not change the fact that there is no attempt in a committee party to meet this event. I agree with that, with what. A senator, mentioned in the committee's opinion of the views that govern investments. I don't agree with the highest. Ministers that it is in their best interests to neglect much of the infrastructure and place enormous emphasis on subsidies. I think we need to do both. [[The president calls.]] We can't help it. The cost grows each year when it comes to the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u107	A respectable president. I don't have much to add, but I'm going to reiterate it. A member of the council spoke correctly, as well as mentioned in my talk. Conventional interest calculations do not necessarily work. Social views and other factors that are of great importance must also be looked to when we face decisions about which investments we make and what types of projects we make. This is very important. I hear there's a harmony there, fortunately, between the opinion of the greater part and us in the smaller part, all these smaller objects. I hope that makes sense to the highest degree. Secretary of finance. I hope he takes into account what is pointed out in the panel of us all; to take into account these views, national views, not only traditional interest calculations, and that men do not stick entirely in the excel document and just stick to it. More things matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u108	A respectable president. First, I want to express my envy at the highest level. Secretary of the budget, report back to Section 4. It made me feel like I could tell what to say. A senator's goal should be to sell his banks. I wanted to make sure I understood a senator correctly. After Congress and discussions and a transparent sales process, I felt that it should be done within the time frame of this policy, although it may be a different matter. I wondered if it wouldn't be a very flounder during this rumbling season to go shopping on the banks. Wouldn't it be normal to have it in the bank, to be able to sell if it comes together? So we deal with the locals' agreement. After reading that document, it actually sounds like the message we had previously received, that the state and rural society agreed to disagree, except what it is signed. There are two things in this contract that I thought was some solid, sound object. At the end of financial policy, it was the debt of the local community and the application of the so - called GFS standard that it is the only requisite. There was nothing else that kept up with or about the likes of us. I wonder what. A senator understands this agreement as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u109	V.E.G. President. The one standing here is truly envying, it must only be said, to get such a good answer but a good answer from many people here today. I appreciate that. No, in itself it was not stated in committee panel 4 that the goal should be to be a banker. Rather, we tried to highlight the importance of a clearer policy, that the work force and preparation should ensure transparency. It is also of great importance that the discussion is conducted here at the General Assembly. I pointed out that the Council's Economic and Business Committee is now going over this matter. And there's a lot of pots broken in the financial system. There seems to be a parapolitic reconciliation, so I use that phrase, that we need to fix our financial system. During the discussion today, many members of the Parliament have mentioned the money policy and this and that. After not so many decades of advanced Kingdom life, we are far beyond the reach of many of these areas and have to make many improvements. It is common sense to see and acknowledge it. We continue to work on that assignment. Yeah, it could be a fan. We need to be careful about how we protect the money that comes from the sale in due time. The rurals? I agree with what. paritaprevir Leví Björn that, in effect, this is just about the document we received regarding the intention of continuing to talk. I didn't see anything more in it than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u110	A respectable president. I'm pretty much in agreement with what is said in the opinion of the greater part of the process, that the Economic and Business Committee will take up the discussion and that there's a lot of discussion about this subject here. But I don't agree that the inevitable goal of that discussion is a banker. It limits the discussion to a very large extent that information presented in the process could lead to our decision not to sell the banks at one time. We'll be at least being open to that possibility, otherwise the discussion will be rather empty. One of the main objectives of financial policy is to prevent filing. It's a lot of billions if the banks are sold out in a flash. [[The president calls.]] I'd guess it would be a big fan, so it would go against financial policy itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u111	V.E.G. President. Yeah, we just sort of agree on this, me and what. paritaprevir Björn's Leví. As I said in the previous answer, our opinion in section 4 is not necessarily the primary objective of selling banks. But when it comes to doing so, a man heard no better than that it exists, and the whole thing is carefully framed. It must be such that trust exists, a social reconciliation, which was, for example, a state of peace. not present recently when the object of Arion bank was sold. The methodology at that time further undermined trust. Eight years is a short time. We are sensitive as a nation. You have to be careful. That's important. As I said earlier, we have talked about trust, transparency, and spending money wisely in order to limit the impact. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u112	A respectable president. We'll discuss financial policy to the next five years, which with a new government law has to do with one of the three key stakes of public finance, along with a financial program that will be introduced in the near future, and the budgets that will be established until the fall. Hv. paritaprevir and the chairman of the legal committee, Haraldur Benediktsson, earlier today made clear the main points of policy and considered more part of the legal committee. I'd like to make a few things right. A majority of the elements are given the opinion of their particular attention on some grounds of the course. It is largely expected that continued interest will be maintained in the forecasting period according to Iceland's National Institute of Economics since November. The projection of economic growth is estimated to be 4.4% this year, followed by a range of 2.6How3% in duration. Almost all other criteria give a positive view of economic prospects. Unemployment is at the lowest level in history, a business enterprise has improved, and inflation is within the standard of Iceland's Federal Bank. There has also been an increase in power over the past two years, and there has been an increase in investment after undeniably minimum in the early years since the collapse of the bank. It is known that there is a high cumulative need for investment both in public and in companies. The challenge in this situation is that the State preconceived its investments so that it will not become an overexcited at the same time. Above this priority list, investments in the interior of the medical system must land. This is not merely the proposed renewal of the land hospital's facilities. There is also the government's development in less - experienced areas of economic growth and even of collapse. Then there has been a great need for investment in our transport system. Such investment is needed to promote and improve the competitiveness of the individual communities and the country as a whole. The majority of the items suggest a plan for at least Five years of investment in community infrastructure. Such investment is essential to meeting the requirements for good living in this country, living conditions such as what Iceland and I are demanding and meeting the best of what is known in the world. It is important, in the opinion of the greater part, that the framework of financial policy does not prevent necessary and normal investments from occurring in the inner areas of society. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson and others were identified by various bodies of the panels that they had wanted more sensitivity analysis and other stage shots. In addition, the aims of the policy may also include a proportion of GDP in a range rather than a certain point position. This would certainly prevent too narrow a policy, but it would be important for such approach to make sure that a gap would not be large enough to allow the policy to be too wide. Thus, a goal for a secure financial frame would be upset. I'd like to mention the interest issues too. At their work, a financial committee specifically introduced the composition and development of GDPs and met with representatives of the Pension Funds, which discussed their potential impact on growth in the country. State funds have dropped in recent years. They climaxed in 2012 at 1,30 billion dollars. has dropped 370 billion in four years. As measured by the proportion of GDP, the debt rate at the end of 2011 was 86% but was reduced to 47.5% by the end of the last year. The cause of the decline lies in improved financial resources, as well as irregular revenues that have been used to reduce debt. By the end of 2015, agreements with the broken - up banks were made for the payment of stability proposals in connection with their disposal of currency capitals. The budget was 3,85 billion. Of these, 185 billion are weighted in the form of stocks in Iceland, which is therefore owned by a trust fund. The majority of this is of particular interest, though the State's payment as a share of GDP is falling and being lower than in many OECD countries, the interest rate is very high compared to that of other countries and with the highest one known to be among those countries. The main reason is the composition of debt. 82% of the total estate debt is domestic. As we know, Iceland's interest levels are much higher than those in most parts of the world. This explains the cost of interest, or the high cost of interest. It is not a simple matter to change this reality, though the project is truly on the table of governments. We aim to reduce interest rate over the next few years. For the sake of subsidence, but improved credit ratings should also lead to better interest rates. Improve a credit rating which should be achieved by longer-term economic balance here, with the highest stability for enterprises, households and public organisations. The purpose of financial policy is to promote such an economic balance. The majority stress the continuing effort to reduce the debt of state funds as the interest costs have to decline substantially. In 2007, growth rate as a proportion of GDP was reported to be 1.6% at the date of the date of 2007, at the highest rate of 5.3% two years later. At the end of this financial policy, in 2022, it is assumed that the interest rate will be about 50 billion. and thereby back to 1.6% of gross domestic product. Naturally, discussions about the importance of a decrease in the debt of the state's funds to discuss the monopolizement from the property of state funds. This includes: What are some business payments, and what are some of them? On the basis of written prices, the share of state funds in big business banks is now about 450 billion dollars. As has been observed so far, and before, at Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands nearly completely and with about 13% of stocks at Arion Bank. The government's policy for financial companies comes in, including... to consider the government's ownership of things in Icelandic financial institutions as a temporary arrangement, although there may be reason to continue one of them as a member of the State. The majority of these figures consider it necessary to give careful discussion of the future structure and ownership of the business banks at the General Assembly. It will be difficult to prepare for sale of the government's holdings in the business banks, thus building confidence in the sales process. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has declared it, including Here in the General's symposium, all emphasis must be placed on the carefulness of such a trade process in the future. It will simply take the time needed to meet the criteria for transparent and efficient management. In this context, it is correct to remind you that this year the National Bank and Iceland Bank pays over 35 billion dollars. ... infringement. This bank's financial status is strong, and there is room for it to be reduced by further contributions. So certain revenues can be obtained from the banks without selling them. This creates an important space for us to wait for banks to sell if conditions for sale are not practical. The importance of selling state property into banks is due to the exception of a detailed discussion and an open, transparent sales process. This emphasis is highlighted in the government covenant. Another thing I'd like to kill here, in connection with this crossing, turns to State Fund Pension Penitentiary. A report by the Parliamentary arrangement points to the development of demographic factors in the coming decades as well as the impact of this development on survival, financial status, and the commitment of public members. It is also held that the government's Penitentiary of Pension will weigh the terms of government in the years to come. It is estimated that the unfinished pension debt of state and rural society is due to the backtrace of a total of some 650 billion dollars. or 27% of gross domestic product by the end of 2016. In view of the greater part, it is necessary that the government should, in general, be in charge of the long term public financial management programme, including the management board. Based on assessments of population development, and assuming space to be affected by the trend in the strategy. Finally, a respectable president. In the financial policy, maintenance is highest in 2018 and 2018, but much less recent years, both of which are aimed at lower wastes as a factor in GDP and as growth expenditures. This year's budget is estimated to be 70 billion, but by the end of the forecasting period, more than 50 billion. So there is evidence to suggest that the late phase of the season will be relaxed, which is predicted to slow down in economic growth. Nevertheless, the majority feel that the target of the resolution is a good compromise between the factors that will be dealt with in the next few years. The majority of them, in the opinion of the greater part, are to go further and make further permanence requirements. In view of the way financialism rhymes with the government's declaration of policy, which, in fact, hides. In terms of large - scale expenses for welfare and education, it is important that interest payments from the State are now and have been for some time the third largest health and welfare costs in the state. The payment of these great growth is a great deal of blood for society. The high capital is better spent on other things. That is why this point is emphasized with great emphasis. It is primarily a secure government and a debt subsidies that enables us to increase expenses, including the cost. to important community affairs, lastingly. The financial agenda as it appears here is an important requirement for their road trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and would rather go to the bank office. There's been some questions here that have been addressed to me about it. Now, in financial and financial policy, it is calculated that some 35 billion will come each year from these banks or property of the state, now primarily the banks involved. As noted, banks, which the state has almost complete money on 35 billion this year, do I want to ask the senator if he feels that selling the banks faster and paying off debts or waiting and paying off the debt more slowly as expected in financial policy and then in the financial agenda?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u114	Thank you very much. Secretary of finance the counter. The question is, Do I consider it advisable to pay off debt faster than this, by going systematically to the sales of banks now? So to answer, as I mentioned in the talk, there is the basis for which the banks will be sold that the quality of selling in a transparent and open process in broad consultations. I just can answer that, so it's more important to me than just the exact timing. This financial policy here is based on the fact that 140 billion single - income revenues are being made over the course of time. Depending on the interest paid by banks this year, it's enough. It is clear, however, that better if we are able to repay debt, and I am convinced that paying back debt and a decrease in interest is the key to our doing so. But the priority is the process itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u115	Mr. President. I thank the senator the answer, and we agree on this: It is more important that there is a problem in the process than that we run to and lower our debt to do so in haste, although the evidence can certainly recommend it. I knew this was a bit of a tough question that I was putting before you. A senator, but we're all going through a learning process. The time to prepare for this course was certainly quick. I took pride in promoting this course on the first day of the council, as expected. It has been noted that we have failed to apply the advice of a financial body. It was hard for me to do that because it didn't give advice until then. But the next time I offer a financial bill four years ago, I will consider these comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u116	A respectable president. I am very happy that we will agree, me and the highest. Secretary of finance. It would be awkward, but it would be awkward for our next meeting if it wasn't. Not that I've doubted it in any way. I'll just agree with it. We have a clear tenure policy, we've also had a look at these factors, not to be the owners of these banks in the long run. It is in the government covenant. This alone does not come as a special surprise to anyone who has studied that subject. But the key is that we're here to learn from our experience, to step to the ground carefully, to do well, and to be open and transparent. That's the exit point. And then getting a good price for these things, it's a huge deal from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u117	A respectable president. I would end up in speech after all. The senator spoke of interest rates lowering from 2019, which would mean that we would not have to hold on as much as we did for the next two years. The members of the largest section's committee list are read, by permission of presidents: To a large extent, the subsidence of the State's debt is determined by the way it sells these assets. If interest rates drop from 2019, does that not mean that we have to sell a bank for that time, in order to achieve it? Does this mean that sales will be raided in Iceland and U.S. Bank in the next two years? Is that the picture that's being pulled up here when I hear what I'm saying? Councilmen speak right and left and highest. Minister as well? Is this the plan? [[The president calls.]] It seems that selling a bank is the whole financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u118	Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðfjörður Helgadóttir. I'm sorry if I've been blurred here before. This isn't what I wanted to come from me. What I wanted to say, and I thought I said, is that the 140 billion who are offering the basis for financial policy, and hence, decrease in interest costs, are the equivalent of the amount that comes out of banks this year to remunerations, multiplied by four. This financial policy as it appears here is thus not bound to government sales. We, however, pursue it, but selling the banks is not necessarily a matter of principle. The answer is: No, the decision to sell the banks is not yet made in the next year or two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u119	A respectable president. I understood why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, president of what? The payment of the State debt would, in fact, be carried out by bank sales. A week ago, the highest said. The secretary of finance, however, did not have any particular plans for selling state property items in Iceland and U.S. Bank. I've got to get some feedback from what I'm talking about. A senator on this discrepancy. There is a plan to sell the government's ownership property in Iceland and the Bank of Lands, as can be understood by the majority of them. Or are there no special plans for selling state property in Iceland Bank and Bank? [[The president calls.]] This is a very important question. There must be an answer to this, i.e. from the highest. Secretary of finance, sir. Senator foreman.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u120	A respectable president. Again, thank you for the answer and the opportunity to discuss this here. Perhaps I can approach the matter by explaining that this financial policy does not include the answer to subsidies on every debt in the state. I'm sorry. I wish you would. It involves subsidies. I have considered it, both in my speech and in the previous answer, where that money might come from. But there remains a large debt of state funds. The idea is, if successful, to use among the government's belongings, and then first in the form of banks, to pay them off debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. One senator spoke of the need for health and transportation investment and said that it was a focus of government classes and governments to invest in health and transportation, hoping that the frame would not prevent the necessary investment if I understood it. A senator is correct. At the same time, he said what. A senator said that the challenge was not overheating his investments. Now, though, is it not true that taking on investments requires making special money for them? If we put crowns into the economy to improve investment, must we take them elsewhere so as not to overheat?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir for the counter-sponsored. I don't think so, and I don't understand policy that there's a conflicting point of view. The interest in this project is natural. The predictions cover this maintenance investment. I wish she could be bigger, I think everyone must agree on that. But as we will see, at the end of my talk, we view this as a good compromise under the circumstances. We are going to this infrastructure to some extent without taking the step of overheating. This is in accordance with the circumstances. So the answer is: No, I don't think this will stop you from doing that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u123	Mr. President. I hope so. A senator is right, but I doubt it, unless the investments are negligible. Hv. A senator speaks of investments, but it is also necessary to establish permanent commitments for state funds in the services of health institutions, schools of education, to improve the quality of disability, etc. Counts 'em out. A senator that the policy will also cover these improvements? Hv. A senator spoke of growing down in the coming years, and the funds would be better spent on other items, mentioning the construction of infrastructure. But the budget policy itself speaks of the indiscriminate interest costs for permanent spending, but it should be used to cover debt. I'm asking why. A senator: Is this consistent and sufficient for necessary investments and to establish lasting commitments in the welfare system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u124	A respectable president. I suppose I've got something in there. Then there's the answer that I'm dealing with a five - year - old policy and at some point, as the debt declines and thus the weight decrease increases, the space increases. So I don't think it's gonna work out. I'm gonna let me believe it. Of course, we have a measure of uncertainty. I can say for myself that I would have wanted us to be working on this in a better setting than we are now. I'm going through this for the first time like a lot of other guys. Senators. We didn't see it coming - not those who set the way during the first term to accept this policy and this practice in general, role models, I think, i.e. saying to go this way - how short a time would be now. In some ways, then, we are striving hard at our time. Yet, I am convinced that the tone that is struck by this policy is correct. Then we'll have to see if I'm right there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u125	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I have to agree with those who have talked about here because of the banks. It is not surprising that there is a question where there has been a conflicting answer received, from the chairman of a financial committee and secretary, about subsidies and all of that. A financial body says that the real value of sales is uncertain. According to reality, we cannot plan interest every year, apparently being. This has not been done because it has not been shown enough. In terms of subsidies and development of interest rates, and other factors, the interest rates of the pension fund have been considerable, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator knows, and we got a presentation on a budget board. We've been refining them since the collapse. I heard why. One senator said that subsidies could be financed by making the most of the money and the like. [[The president calls.]] But, in turn, most of the infrastructure may have to wait for the two years now to take on this course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir to answer and agree fully with her about the bank cases. There's some uncertainty going on there. The nature of the case is uncertain. The process needs to run its course. We're going to have this right here on transparency and open management, information flow. Besides, buyers need it. There is no specific time frame, even if we were all willing to do so, and say: At this point within the framework of the budget, we're going to have sold the banks or parts of them, or whatever way we're going to use them for subsidies and/or into the infrastructure. It's all a bit off. The basis for this financial policy is 150 billion monotonies. It is, at least, as we can see at the interest markets of this year - and of course it is not in winter setting or can be said to come in all the years; yet, the financial policy does not oblige us to speed up the bank's sales for goals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u127	Mr. President. I'll agree we have to stick around about the bank sale. THERE is a report on the nuclei's web today that urges not to rush but to choose the buyers with zeal, as it is said. I'd like the second answer, which is short, to ask him why. For information on what is presented on page 18 - 23. 13 of the financial hearings that refer to generation accounts that need to be done. They were last made for Iceland around the turn of the century. In view of baseline sustainability, it is worth considering if it is not time to do it again, it is said here. In view of the fact that we are talking about performing a specific assignment for the future, I would like to ask: A senator's not that the committee should promote such action?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u128	A respectable president. I'll thank you again for the answer, even though I'm sorry to stand here in my last answer and I don't have it all figured out. A senator is talking about. If I understand why. A senator corrects this is some kind of assessment of future needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u129	Whether it's political.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u130	Right on. Is that what the budget should do? [[Up front.]] I think I can just say:
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u131	A respectable president. I am glad that there is now a financial policy available for the next five years. We have finally begun to look ahead, trying to see the situation, preventing all sorts of serious things, and changing the financial regime from merely responding to all kinds of situations that would have been possible and prevented, in accepting it as responsible. It's supposed to be a celebration, a respectable president. I, however, am realistic. There is not much experience in government law. It will take both the state and the community some years to get it in perfect shape. Because I finally have a good time to talk and because we're discussing long-term financial policies, I'd like to mention one thing that's a special hobby of mine, i.e. Policy and policy plans. So I find it very exciting to share in the development of these laws and methodologies and how practical procedures and practices will be improved. However, I would like to agree with what has been discussed in the discussion at some point. Councilmen, an advantage would have been to have more policies prepared and a clear plan of action. I miss investment policy and government policy in financial companies, clear policy in tourism, energy policy, global health policy and a number of other policies, global vision of goals, standards, internal assessments. You see, there are many ways and a great many interesting standards that can be used and lived, such as. to be present in the index of social progress aimed at measuring the capacity and ability of society to meet basic needs and to help improve the quality of life of society. I hope that we'll go out on that kind of professional level and make things right. The chairman of the budget committee has reviewed the main candidates for policy management. However, I would like to use this opportunity to mention five things that I would like to give special attention to in this context. First, there are all kinds of big, big tasks that we face in Icelandic society. For example, the growth of tourism has been more rapid than any anticipated factor and is having a significant impact on Icelandic society in many areas. The growth has led to many social problems, lack of housing, influence on road service, road construction, law enforcement, organizational matters, to name something. It would have been wishful if, as growth in tourism became tangible here 2011 or 2012, to shape a future policy for this important business path. Tourism is affecting other sectors that are in a fierce competition for labor and funding. The growth has also resulted in a buildup of the kroner's gangs, which, once again, has resulted in a weakness of exporting. The further funding of the crown can easily lead to a reduction in the arrival of tourists in the country with the expected economic contractions. Then financialism would be the basis for a smile. Hence, we need to respond and balance our ministry. You see, it's not balanced. On the one hand, I want to draw attention to the progress of things at present, as we have seen. Economic growth has been excellent, of course, not missed. For the most part, it has been because the arrival of tourists has increased by four times, and the mackerel was so kind as to enter Icelandic fishing history and oil prices, and more has helped. But there is also a good situation because you and I, who have been sitting here for some year, managed to cover up most of the major problems we faced with the collapse, problems that convened in the Icelandic economic system. We have a long way to go with a few other things, but we've been going up here since everything went down. We regularly see extreme swings in which most people lose and in Icelandic people are responsible. The reason is that some people do not agree with the equivalent of a dollar, as we know. Here is a reason to mention that just foreign hedge funds took up a position against the Icelandic public for disaster, with a huge share. The money's still here. The crown sways like a straw in the wind, and the hedge fund tries to influence the market to make the most of it. That's my food. I'm not an expert, but it's a balance fund. Still, I wanted to mention it in this context. I'm sure there's no coincidence that the new owners of a section of Arion Bank owns 9.9%. Thus, hedge funds can hide, and banks will never find out who they are. Many also pointed out that the dollar saved us after a crash. It may be true, but the crash would have been just because of it, others say. It is somehow the beginning, and it is the end not only of the disaster but also of its selfless success. So as long as we use the crown as a currency, it is more important than trying to anticipate as much as you can, make plans, and try to control the economy as much as possible. That's what we're trying to do with financial policy. You see, we are not going to be driven any more. We're going to see the big context, view the government's finances as a unit, whether it's a state level or a level of government. Third, I'd like to make it a subject that the state and society have come into agreement -- I would say it's unconfirmed, that is late - came about the possible common view of the state and community's view of the investment policy of both parties. This agreement accords with conditions for overall balance, balance and balance and contributes to good economic management and the robust and responsible management of public funds and is based on sustainable, caution, stability, stability and transparency. However, I state that we are at an early stage in this trend. Of course, these are worthwhile goals. Governments and rural groups have also agreed to improve the production of information which helps to make right and informed decisions, to revise regulations to support the joint financial programmes of their partners, and to improve the information on the survival and financial programmes of the government to rely on their position and plans. It also includes reviewing the effectiveness of rural and civil financial policies in terms of economic goals, sustainableness, promoting cooperation, co-work division of countries and rural communities, and renewing cooperation each year. They are worthwhile goals, and they will be happy to share in the development and future work with their rural communities. Fourth, I'd like to mention that now it's an effort to set priorities in such a way that there is no danger of overexcitation at the same time, as we may feel at this time. There are many tasks of utmost importance, of which everyone agrees, and many insides need considerable attention. Thus, the largest public construction project for the next year will appear to be the building of a new land hospital and a huge expansion of all facilities at Keflavour Airport. Then, of course, there are other investments, such as the building of nursing homes and other things. In other words, it appears that there is considerable activity on the southwest corner. I think it is very important in view of the fact that intelligence is the impact of different investments and implementations in individual articles, as well as the effects on capital and national capital areas. It is not enough to stop at financial policy. We also need to plan an investment plan through analysis and economic and social impact on society. This is not preventing the necessary investment, the link between financial policies must not lead to it. It is important, however, to study the future with the best possible information and diagnostic tools to take control and do things as well as possible. It is of importance that the overall picture is clear and that the aims of maintaining overexcitement and that all the major participants are intervening in it. Number five, and at the latest, I want to mention the news coming from a sale at Arion Bank. There, unknown people have found quite a lot in the bank without our chance to find out who they are. I think we need to take a very careful look at the rules of information about financial companies, not just the dominant object, which is a 10% share or more, but smaller things as well. It is easy to make all kinds of requests in the shelter of anonymity. The rules have to be so that we are not to worry about anonymity. It is not the State that sold its share, so it has little to say about the sale. However, it is the policy of the government to sell a share in the three business banks, as we have seen here, without me knowing exactly when it is scheduled. The government of the Bank of Lands and Bank of Iceland is virtually complete, 13% at Arion Bank. Before these things are sold, careful discussions and decisions about the future and the ownership of the business banks must be made. There are many questions left about many important things before any of these assets are sold. We need to be as careful as possible to prevent such calamities as the fall of 2008. It will also be important for us to get the results of the research committee on foreign participation in the purchases of tomorrow's holdings of the Bank. We must continue to dive into things that have gone wrong in order to learn from mistakes and prevent them from happening over and over again. It is a minimum requirement not to screw things up repeatedly with the same mistakes. So many were those words, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with it when it speaks of policy plans and how important it is to work on policy agendas in various areas and to look forward to the future and then to try to develop a realistic plan thereafter. It was just the thought of changing the law on public financial matters. Hv. A senator spoke of the travel service and wished, if I recall correctly, that things had been taken on when she began to grow. However, it was in 2012 that in the year 2013, budgeting was called after two reports on the status and environment of the tourism agency. One was from the University of Economics of Iceland, requested by the Ministry of finance, and the other was from KPMG for which the article requested. Both agreed, as it was then, that if the value point was to be brought from 7% to 25.5%, this would reduce the growth of tourism and, based on careful plans then, would be a million tourists in 2018 instead of 2018. Of course, growth since then has become much greater than when it was planned. Yet, they were made. They were considering setting a management environment around the tourism service while it was growing. This was strongly objected, especially by a team of colleagues. A senator and a government colleague at the moment. A senator supports. It had to be made up of compromises, and reduced these items, which were then completely taken away when the new government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party took over. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree that these matters had to be addressed in 2012 and that it was not too late to set general standards around travel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. This is my hobby, and I like to discuss my tourism as a member of the Istavia Management Board. My vision was that, in fact, there are airlines that control the supply that affects our community, how we control it, and how we affect our tourism. Not everyone agrees on that. However, it seems to me that today the organization of tourism agrees with me that it is primarily the influx into the country where we are to be affected, possibly, to limit some airlines, to distribute the airlines, that the limit and control are actually coming from there instead of putting a spell on this article. There are, therefore, many ways to go. I think it's important because the name has been mentioned, like the whale. A senator mentioned, I am pleased to hear it, I was not there in 2011 and 2012, but this guide has been developed in travel services. They've created some stage photos. In fact, the guide does not establish a policy that sets goals and paths, but it does speak mainly of certain potential options and how the situation is today. It's like a vision. I think we need to make a decision. The big question I really want to ask the tourism is, because I think it's so important that it's done in everyone's consultation, how many tourists we want into the country this year, after two years, after five years. How do we want to act in this regard? But above all, I don't think it's too late to go to policy, it's urgent, and we need to do this together with the company of tourism and other parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u134	Mr. President. I'm not going to go out on the road any more. I think me and what. A senator could talk for hours about that position all together, in fact, it needs to be done. Hv. A senator is also a government officer. Official funds cover both the government and the financial affairs of a rural society. Is it not true that no one can replace or take part in terms of the agreed financial programmes of any member of the community? Not the state, not the Union of Iceland. Nobody. So there is a lot of uncertainty about the requirements for rural society. Do we not have to assume that they can land on the State and bring about the State or State payment? In fact, they might even be in the minus of the period, but not a plus as expected. Is this not a weakness of policy and, in fact, unrealistically, to assume that our rural society will pass away when no one can overlook it or control it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u135	A respectable president. I agree that rural society is not far off on the job of enforcing public financial laws. The European Union of Iceland showed that it is not practical to have a very accurate job, that the development of rural society is different to this day. Plans only cover three years, and there is evidence to that effect, however, at least it's my experience, if the debt ratio is to fall very fast in rural areas. It's my experience, and I'm not really worried that we won't reach the goal of a better position. In terms of information and consistent budgeting, we are on the verge of success in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u136	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. We agree on a lot of things, that's what I'm talking about. I agree with policy and policy, and that we have to try to keep these long-term goals. I don't think we're starting right. I feel like we're giving up right away in this course, i.e. by not applying what the process offers. I also found joy in hearing, happy seeing it in the greater part, that about identifying the impact of different investments. We'd like to talk about a lot of expansion in the entire economy, etc. and then know the discussion, but there are a lot of complaints in many places where nothing has happened for a very long time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the financial council, about things I've only been wondering about today. How does she see that as a Senate committee, we take the information of a financial body as we look ahead with what we have now? There is considerable criticism, e.g. Talks about the automatic rhythms. As for them, this is what the President's permission says: In the financial policy, automatic fluctuation equations are aimed at reducing demand, which is driven in largely by its roots in tourism. It uses a national economy to address a specific economic challenge. In general, automatic fluctuation equations are not used to deal with problems related to the individual sector. On the one hand, I ask about the role of a financial body, how it's done. A senator envisions this at work on the committee. And I'm also asking, "How are we going to take that in?" I think they're extremely important to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u137	A respectable president. I was very interested in listening to financial advice from committees. I felt that there was a lot of important comments. That also made good comments. They were positive about a number of things that we were working on, which I took to heart. In connection with this fluctuation, there was a why. A member of the travel service, but I also think it's important that we look at the other end, as mentioned earlier. When tips are presented in a profession or professional field, we need to take them into consideration. I have already noted that it is very important that we gain control of our tourism, so I view it as a good comment, and this strengthens my faith in the need to get control of our tourism and these overgrowths. There's no stability in tourism, it's unstable, it's very undesirable that there's a lot of growth, I don't think it's good. From that end on, I like to get comments from such good advice as it is there; it's a very qualified group of people who gave us that advice. I find this comforting, and I listen to it. However, it is also possible to take action, as we already noted, to shape a future policy in tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u138	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Maybe that's exactly what I'm asking. Because this is the financial council that says we're not dealing with this. I'd have liked to see this dealt with, to deal with this failure, in some part of the committee's list of things. It's not done. That's kind of why I'm asking why. A member of the council because I hear that she is ready to handle this situation, yet she accepts most of the section without making any comment on the matter. Therefore, a person has doubts about the meaning of his mind; I may not say so; rather, he has doubts that the actions speak in this context. This may have been my introduction because it's important to me. This is a major factor that is literally, as the financial adviser says, unplugged, i.e. The fluctuation. It is certainly not acceptable in the position we are today with the financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u139	A respectable president. I hope my mind comes into play. I just want to reiterate my answer with the comments that came from a financial committee about our remembering and responding, and I need to do so regarding our tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u140	A respectable president. This question should go mainly to Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, but I guess that's why. A senator can answer, for this is really a government policy, i.e. This ten-and-a-half policy. Once we have a fixed policy, it would be practical to take a loan abroad because we could use it abroad as low interest rates, but the cost is likely to be shown in the need to maintain our fixed policy, and that is a high cost. The question, then, is whether the cost of maintaining solid policy is greater or lower than the interest difference we gain from having domestic loans on high interest rates is the need to have foreign loans on low interest. However, it has to be taken into account that the loans in this country are, as far as I know, the majority of people who go to the pension fund, and would be interesting to know if it really has a positive effect on our long-term commitments to e.g. The pension fund, or just the pension fund in general to build them up after the collapse, because it's a domestic flow and affects it. And we'd have to sort of admit that this is a certain extra tax system to save the pensions. In that way, it is positive if we just accept it that way. That's the view of this policy that I feel is missing, and indeed the very fact that a policy is missing in long-term commitment, which I think this is a major impact and is extremely important to know about. I'd love to have a senator's opinion of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u141	A respectable president. I have a hunch. A member of the council, of course, finds me able to discuss the matter, but of course a considerable debate was made on the budget in terms of the role and access of the pension fund, their question of interest, and other matters, i.e. how it affects our real society. I really can't answer these exact questions. A senator who doesn't want to bring anything in here and ask us to discuss it further on the budget board. However, if I have a little time in reply, I feel that getting the pension funds into our economy just usually, whether it's into the loan system with us in the mortgage, how they come into building houses, how they come into the tenures, and are becoming very decisive and taking a place in our society - I don't really think of that development, and I think it's somehow so that we also need to get close to the balance of this massive budget inside our pensions. This will be my introduction to this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u142	A respectable president. I think it is definitely necessary to take on this discussion and find out exactly what is the best way to do it, how we handle our tax dollars. Then let's go over a little bit of gear. Let's just go over to the tourist business. That is exactly where I asked for a financial committee to determine the resolution of the number of tourists or even a slight decrease, or what would simply change the number of tourists have, for example. A profit raise? I think it's really important in this financial policy, what the development of tourists will be in the years ahead to see if it will bring the interest needed to maintain the debt that the policy demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u143	A respectable president. I take my heart to these speculations about the tourism and the scenarios that we need and the impact it has on the economy. In my opinion, we don't know. I think this uncertainty is creepy, really, because it makes so much difference. We can talk about a crash in a tourism service and how it affects us, how decisive that collapse would be. I just want to agree with this. I think we need to analyze this much better. We need, as I've talked about, to set a policy in the tourism service out of its influence on society. It's not only on the economy, it's also on infrastructure, how content we are as a community in this development, and many other things. So I want to agree that I want to continue this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u144	Madam President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing of financial policy resolution for the year 2017/2022. Such discussions may not have been particularly popular in the media, in the community, but they are still fundamentally fundamental to political emphasis until the next five years. This, of course, is part of the new legal environment that we are in on public financial matters, which have actually changed the entire scope of financial resources. The positive view is that we have a clearer long - term policy, an increase in perception, a clearer set of government lines. But it is so, that I begin with this measure, that I believe much of the rest of these laws and the work of their induction is lacking. First of all, the nations that have been ensuing a similar code of laws on public finances have taken much more time for that induction. I'd like to remind you that the Council is in charge under the Constitution of Iceland. This legal setting has largely come to the Commission. We've created a law code that requires a much greater central control than used to be here in the past. I am aware that a greater central management would have been needed to give them a witness to what was being done here in 2011, to remind me that when a financial committee was distributed to various museums, which was often a huge task of rapid writing. There they assigned large sums of money, which was not necessarily a major professional concern. I'm asking, "Have we not come too far when we give the highest government policy? " A secretary of finance, and it is not given time to review national interest criteria, when an economic committee gives the case information to a financial committee, preordaining that we have one day to write a review? As it turned out, the Economic Commission gave a review that was not a review. Instead, we concluded that we would be better able to review these matters when the financial plan is in place. Of course, that's not the way the work routine is supposed to be. It is only natural that the Council's Economic Committee oversees the national economy in such long - term policy development, with the national interests of the economy being of the most important concern. We create this work ethic and set up financial policies, and it's supposed to be financial policy. It is, in fact, a seat in the economy, and the money policy as determined by the money policy committee is another pillar. How do we live up to our money policy? Yes, there is a financial conference committee, the Governing Body behind which there are experts. But do we have a national economy behind financial counsel? Are we in charge with some employees behind the financial council? Since I have examined the introduction to a similar law frame elsewhere, there is usually some sort of organisation or both of the agencies, or of the President's permission, some sort of office with experts who work to provide the financial counsel with a basis to dig deeper. But when it comes to the role of the council, in view of the fact that this is a process for longer living on a set basis for the development of national interests and that we are expected to be in control of the government's affairs over the economy, we don't have time to do that. I think this is a thought - provoking point for those who care about the council and want to protect their independence and role as defined in a constitution. I wondered, " What exactly is the role of the council when we are going to handle matters like long - term dating to five years of age? ' I hope this is an initial problem for the induction. But my knowledge would have been better if we had taken more time to review all of this. It was best at a meeting held with members of the law that members of Parliament had a number of questions about the impact of financial policy on the budget and what would be the role of the Parliament in the final payment of budgets. This may be the first, i.e. the role of the synopsis in all of this and the quick script that I have felt was a characteristic of the introduction. I don't think it's good that you haven't had a chance to cross over your economic employers on the committee they're under. I expect this to be an initial challenge, but all of this is part of changing the course in how we organize our government spending. There, as members of the Parliament, we need to be alert to a measure of balance. What we see, since this system has been installed, is that it usually leads to better planning. There are smaller protocols and consequently larger fixation, greater stability, in government expenses. At the same time, we're seeing a much greater media control. The role of the council will be reduced. Then we must ask ourselves: " How are we going to find the balance between being reasonable in managing the government's finances and then in a democratic way? Because we're sitting here representing the public. We need to be able to act as representatives of the public; agents of a particular course, each of us, and each class, but we are also representatives of the public in this country. It is important to remember that we are under his command to accept this course until the age of five. It is important that all members of Parliament discern this. Therefore, after the beginning, I am concerned about how this discussion has started and how we're working it, whether we're looking at too much media, whether or not we're doing it in an adequate democratic manner here at the council scene. So now I'm beginning to agree that the very essence of the policy itself, which is to shape the way we plan and finance for the next five years, I pause that, of course, this is a high-political document, as shown in the case and the members of the committee. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and, in fact, other whales. Councilmen. Money policy is to shape everything we do. Aside from the legal divorce that we left greens passed against at the time when the government budget was approved here at the General Assembly - where there are certain conditions for financial and financial policies, specific conditions for survival, debt conditions, and other such - are added to the added conditions of a certain budget. It's been alright here because of the other reason. Councilmen. There's a set fee roof that's based on what it is now. No further revenues are expected during this period. Additional expenditures thus need to be fitd within the economy. It is considered in the course that it is important to make use of the scope of debt subsidies. In addition, the greater part shows that it is acknowledged that there is a great need for extra expenses. So we have a policy that assumes that a charge sheet, assuming that expenses will not be increased unless it becomes available within the direction of the economy, will actually be used to reduce interest costs rather than to pay permanent expenses, that exchanges that return into the state's budget will be used to reduce debt. There's a great need for structure, knowing why. Councilmen, that's why they all praised the last election. They praised the structure of the health system, education, transportation. However, the members of the greater section report that there is a need for full analysis, with the permission of a president: The possibility of funding economic infrastructure in cooperation with founded investors, such as a pension fund. It is also said that the framework of financial policy is not an obstacle to necessary and normal investment in society's infrastructure. I asked why. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson's subject to this earlier. Yes, the point of the matter is that the greater part wants to settle financial policy without any increase in government expenditures required to be financed, because of the dogma that no taxes can be raised on those most in the community. It may not be a photograph, as has been said in the case of the day. Councilmen, taxpayers in the community, raise local fishing fees, gather income where money is found. I agree with the people who have spoken here for the taxation of tourism. I personally proposed such taxation on the payment of the last budget, on return expenses that would be taken up. And in reality, it is completely unexplained that the Council failed to respond to the development of a more reasonable and fair taxation in the tourism industry. No, none of these special revenues are expected. And so the plan is, as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, to go further in the pursuit of cooperation with the pension fund, which does not necessarily have the role of doing subsidiary investments in the community or under business management; now or just going into some sort of private business, and the Cheflavour airport was called. The airport, which is the gate into the country, must always be the responsibility of the State, no matter how the matter is viewed. That's something we've heard from other guys. Councilmen and the highest. Secretary of travel recently. This idea is clearly being skimmed within the government. So here is a policy based on continued maintenance, insufficient income, while the responsibility is referred to something else. From government funds to privates, to pension funds that will not be involved in such projects as the healthcare system. According to the financial Council, which discussed this policy and gave a review to the budgetary committee, there are a number of factors that need to be considered in the setting of this policy in order to produce an economy that the policy will not have enough consideration for the impact of policy-making. This is essential, Madam President. What economic influence will this government plan have by means of the work being proclaimed, and inadequate income raise? This analysis is not included. This is a five-year plan, Madam President. It also shows that the underlying decay and real maintenance levels are really unclear. This is shown in the review of the financial Council. Because there was a lack of further dissociation, information on specific income and charge measures and correction for the impact of the economy. A financial body warns that if the situation proves to be different, the government may be in a straitjacket of financial policy. Not even the time to examine the economic presidents is set up in the rest of this River script. I told him before that there may be some sort of initial problems here. I think there's a very important point that was presented in the review of the financial council. By permission of the president, I specifically mention that, on page 18. 7 The Council's review points out that failure to stimulate the entire financial policy can result in the failure of governments if economic developments remain different from what was expected. Furthermore, it is noted that this does not correlate with baseline stability, firmness, or caution. Hv. paritaprevir This was the case with Oddný Harðardóttir, who said earlier that she was deeply concerned that financial advisers were not taken into account in paying off the policy. I agree with that. We will see that there is an increase in a marvelous central management system in government finances and a very rigid economic frame that is political in itself. That's why we senators of the left green came against the law at the time. We did not feel that such political doctrine in an economic way was passed into law. Rather, it would be for each government to appoint them as Polish. Now would have been the best. A financial minister in itself could contribute such goals as his political doctrine, but he has also bound them in a law that I find to be dangerous. The government is improving further by adding even one of the conditions, the charge, making the straitjacket even more unpleasant to the government's activities. This makes more sense to the legal committee. Therefore, people say: Yes, listen, this will be difficult for us, and that is why we are working together with the pension fund and other founders to accept the assignments of the community, which are the task that the General Assembly is going to discuss, which the political parties are supposed to be involved; the same political parties, which spoke very clearly of a vision in those cases should be put forward now and explained to the public in what state-of-the-five-year political parties want to do. Because within this frame it will not be attacked in that structure. It will not be an attack on the income that is needed to maintain that structure. This national financial policy is nothing more than a traditional right-armed, conservative bitch whose intention is to do little less. In fact, expenses are added to the conditions under government law. And then some other thing comes and says, "But we see we have to do some things, and we're going to get a private and pension fund to do it. Not only is this document traditional right-handed conservative, it's also being offered an increased privatization, and I'm wondering if everyone's doing it. Senators have figured it out. You see, it's a high political policy presented here. I don't have much time left, but I have to make use of it for what is also stated in the Committee Department of the greater part about one of the biggest uncertainty of the season, in view of the fact that policy has to do with the sales of state funds in business banks. In view of the written price presented here, the share of government funds in big business banks is about $450 billion. And here we are showing that the payment of debt, which is a key theme in all this policy, will depend largely on how to manage their assets. Then we will discuss the work being done on a financial and business committee to set up a framework for the maximum share of the individual owners. In fact, it has been observed in the work of the Economic and Business Committee that Iceland is very narrowly proposed to set a distribution policy because it does not agree with the EEA agreement and the financial regulations that we are involved in. Therefore, I must ask: How responsible is it to publish a business policy for financial companies offering all the property items of the state outside the US Bank, providing a national financial policy where sale of property items in banks is a key factor to the loss of debt at the same time, and we are well aware that it is no fun to hold a bank sale in the economic environment that is today. It is enough to mention the most recent business we've been discussing. It is enough to listen to the information given at the International Bank Department that points to the need to slowly walk through the door of joy and to wait for a good owner rather than to attack a fire sale on the property of the state in banks. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'm sorry to go past the deadline. The nature of this policy is right - minded, conservative, and conservative. There is also a private business called, and there is a lack of a discussion at the council's scene on this policy-making document. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u145	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. She put out a number of interesting and thought - provoking features, certainly, when these three governments are presented by the State. First, though, I would like to ask: What is the result of the increase in financial support that has been proclaimed in excess of what has been previously experienced? Why is more of the rest of the government being accomplished? The explanation is that we are trying to create a barrier to growth. We know that while many countries would envy the United States' debt, there are virtually no countries who would envy our interest in interest. This is exactly the reality that companies in Iceland have to deal with. That is why we are trying to create a position to reduce growth in the future. I agree with what. A senator said that both financial and financial policies are difficult for many early Christians to establish. The time was narrower than people originally thought when this rule was set up. But I'd like to ask. A member of the Parliament how long it would be appropriate to make the most of the financial policy so that all would have plenty of time to discuss it and thereafter the financial program. The Senator here refers to the rest, how much rest is there. A senator's use of financial resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u146	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for a good question regarding the Council's work ethic. I realize that the government took over an unusual time and, therefore, put on financial policy in an unusual time. What I said may well have been the basis for this work. In my speech, I ask: Is it not reasonable to think that an organization around the financial council, some kind of national interest agency, who has the role as used to evaluate the prospects ahead so that financial policy can work like the Pole she is supposed to be against the money policy that actually has a much more powerful backland in the system when looking at how it is won? I believe this is to form one of the key elements that would have been needed to bear in mind. When it comes to meeting attendance, it is not just a matter of time but of work. I make a note that the economic and business committees got this case very late for discussion, saying that it needs to be overdone. It's not the highest. Secretary of finance to teach that we need to resolve the matter in one day. It wasn't possible. You don't go over national interests at one meeting of the Economic and Business Committee. Of course, this process must be drawn up before starting, so that all committees of the council are aware of their role. I think it might have made me think about it, and after reading the reviews of the financial council, I would have felt that we had needed, at least in my crime scene, the Economic Committee, more time to go over and identify the needs of a research center so that we can form this matter. Why is this important? Yes, we need to be careful of the balance between the media, which can provide us with a more targeted budget and funding process, we can say, and then democratic views. I'll take the second scene in a second answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u147	I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to agree with a senator that I think it's important that there's some independent advisors here, and I now feel that in my work at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, we need better national interest both for the Ministry and, of course, for the Generals. It is very important that we have access to these models. I just want to get into what was said here, the rest, and this roof of 41.5% as many as we had. Councilmen have mentioned. I mentioned that by reducing growth and reducing the maintenance over time, we are actually creating room for up to 2% of GDP. In view of the predictions offered in the national economy, it is $16 billion, which is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u148	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister asks for the rest and who he should be. I'm a spokesman for responsible financial management. I'm not a spokesman for going and spending the money that doesn't exist. But I also believe that it is important that the government funds depend on the work we want it to do. When we see it acknowledged, not just by government position, but by members of Congress, that there is a hole in the middle, i.e. this structure needs to be attacked, but I must ask: Good and good, doesn't it have to take steps to meet it? Does that not mean that there is no need to make more money? It is pointed out in the review of the financial council that throwing out the interpoint to achieve tax reductions during the last term caused a lack of control that would have been necessary for the government. There, a political decision was made to make taxes more than to keep the hold and the government's income stocks weakened. This is a big priority. [[The president calls.]] I think it's more important that we do the work we're supposed to do as a community than attack on taxes, in fact, by a dogma, as I said earlier in my speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u149	A respectable president. I wanted to talk here about a few things that were wrong. A senator cut it off. First, this automatic fluctuation, which has often been spoken of and the reviews we received that were natural in the economy and in the way we are now going for an increase in taxes or some kind of revenue. A financial committee also pointed out that there would be a very short time for discussion. The design of the council was strange, since the people were actually nobles. That point has to be fixed on the financial Council. Then a financial and business committee asked a review that I would like to make a note that is not printed by the opinion of the greater portion, which is to be held by Congress, although not much. She's supposed to be printed with the opinion of the greater part. Finally, the work force. This is something I've been trying to speak for within the budget board. Yes, there's a particular government law on public finance, but I think the media is more in the time, the little time the General has to deal with it. When you're just pressing the case over, you don't have time for a good head to decide what's gone wrong. I look at the work environment a little bit so we can get some e.g. The budget of the budget, which is where we should be able to see the order of projects, see priorities. The question then is, How can the Senate affect this priorities? That is the main question based on how this was done before and now under government laws. That's where the biggest politics would happen. I think we need to fight at the General Assembly that the Topic List is very clear so we can see what will be added and fall out when we add up or remind. [[The president calls.]] The question, then, is again, How can we influence the ordering of one thing above another?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u150	Madam President. As I have understood this work ethic, when it comes to financial planning itself, the Allied council will establish priorities, not policy. The policy, however, is the big movie, i.e. evaluating national interests. Hv. One member mentioned that a financial committee had been asked a opinion, but, as I mentioned, it was late and prefigured that everything would be happening within 24 hours or something similar, which, of course, is not going to work when we're going over the big picture. I have a theory about this. It's that people just didn't realize why the Economic Committee should get the case, maybe they didn't understand the purpose of it. But the purpose of this must be that the committee of the council that handles these matters reviews national interests, over the opinion of a financial body that accurately assesses the factors. That takes time. I agree completely with what. Senator. I also agree with what happened at the highest point. Minister, of course, this is put forward for an unusual period of time because of unusual circumstances. This does not change our approval or resolve, if this case is resolved, a policy that will bind the hands of the greater portion if he is to take note of it for five years. It is unacceptable to know that we have not given more time at the proper level of the council to cross the economic candidates. That's my answer. It's also so important that the interiors, I'm not just talking about time, I'm in the middle, okay. I've mentioned national interest here. I have mentioned, and I intend to do it again, with the fact that when these laws were approved, the Ministry received all additional funds to establish a new law on public finance. I like it. Where is the extra deposit to be given to the Council, Madam President, so that the General could take his role seriously in implementing these laws? You see, she never came. The Ministry received this fine money, but we, who represent the budget, are offered a training course on public financial matters when we have agreed to the law and are about to win a financial policy that had already been proposed, remind me of, at the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u151	A respectable president. It is true that my work schedule went on a little bit with my financial plans. But I often feel that there is a legal process in which reporters or cases appear before the committee and pass by. We don't have much time for preparation and recycling to learn from what we just received. That's what I think of a particular medium as such. Without a doubt, it is lacking like a whale. A senator refers to the support of the General for professional work, the support we need, in contrast with the members of the Ministry, and perhaps 100 people have to work together numbers and such, but members in general have not. I'm not sure people see this in general. [[The president calls.]] But I wanted to try to promote that there must be a better support system for the council so that they can better address such serious issues as financial policy and the entire public financial structure. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u152	Madam President. Now I'm not on a budget board, and I'm sure that a financial committee has done its best to handle the matter as well in a short period of time as possible. I don't doubt it. But I hear both of the members of the council's speeches of the greater part and read from the leading committee that there are questions left unsatisfactory, probably due to lack of time. I mentioned some of the financial comments in my speech. This has been a good discussion of subsidies, and I also mention in financial comments that the policy needs to be protected so that it does not become too heavy, does not damage the sustainable society, or upsets them, and does not have to be confused about how much of this subsidies are expected to be paid in terms of financial gain. So says: A more detailed analysis of this would help us to see if our policy meets baseline. These are huge questions. The majority agree with this in their opinion but at the same time acknowledges that various questions remain uncertain. That's what I think is so serious, we're talking about a five-year course, I hear more of the senators talking about the need for investment policy, building policy, a lot more time to look at it. [[The president calls.]] Why is this so, Madam President? [[The president calls.]] Is the council just to accept this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u153	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a good review of this document known as a financial policy that is largely based in a Swedish role model, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Now I've been windowing how the Swedes are pursuing their financial policy, ◯finspolitik, with the permission of a president, as it is called in Swedish. It contains, for example, Similar advice and the financial council that produced them a review of policies as easily as possible. A senator quoted earlier. For them, e.g. Reports of 100◯200 pp. where things are being taken very closely and in the course that Swedish people plan to pursue when their finances are involved. So I feel a little strange, and I'd like to see what's wrong. When I read the commission opinion of a larger section of the budget - we are talking about financialism to five years of age - where he says, by the permission of a president: the more important part suggests the proposal to remain unconvinced. Is there a document perfect that cannot be taken into account the stories that have already been submitted? On page 18. Twenty-five of the financial board's reviews are for example. pointed to minor error. Why could it not be transformed into financial policy? What kind of work do we do here at the General? I want to know what you're doing. It's kind of what a senator thinks. Are we really creating some cloud cities that we cannot then fulfill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u154	Madam President. Of course, I would have needed twice as much time. There are many comments in the review of the financial Council, which I find very important, which I don't feel should be taken into account in the leading party. However, it is stated in the committee sheet of the greater section that I have read that this suggests that the majority of the policy will remain unchanged. However, it is urgent that the terms of terms of financial policy be resolved before it comes to a discussion of the financial agenda for the same period so that discussion of the frame of individual causes will not affect the overall budget of the public. What does this tell us about political understanding of the more part of the document? Yes, it's the burden that can't be changed unless there's a disaster. Then, when it comes to a divided financial program following litigation, it must not affect the overall survival of the government. After this policy has been adopted unchanged, the force of the Council is completely pasted. You may be able to move between groups of languages, but you can't add one. Therefore, the more part contributes to the agreement as it is a political goal not to increase government spending, not to support commercial institutions of the State. The discussion of this matter is twofold. On the one hand, it is about the work and general setting of how we are implementing changing policy policies, while on the other, political content. The majority of the legal committees are saying: There are now very many unknowns about all of this, and better, have come up with some comments, but we are determined not to make any increase in the budget, that the Council is not about to accept an increase to some important category of subjects when it comes to approval that there is a five - year fee and tie up the hands of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u155	A respectable president. I sometimes feel, especially when discussing this case, like we've gotten into some ◯Catch 22◯, with President's permission, has created a problem that is really insoluble. We know that the more part will quote the financial agenda to justify what is going on in the financial program, which, in turn, justifies the appearance of next year's budget and so on. Why is our foundation so thin? Is this a good thing? Don't we need a better perspective? Besides, it's amazing that the council won't put its mark on financial policy for the next five years. I'm amazed that this should only be approved without any changes from the Ministry of finance. In fact, it's the government that's creating a synonym and we're just supposed to be tuned and comfort and stamp it out. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u156	Madam President. The review of the financial Council that I have referred to here in my speech and comments on how debt subsidies are planned, there is lack of information, comments on pension debt commitments and how they are presented; it is made a comment that the spending roof can be a straitet if it becomes different from what is intended, that there is a question of whether policy meets the values laid down in the law on public financial values. The majority of the committees say that it is uncertain, yet it is very important to complete this procedure, just to tie up the hands of the Parliament for a financial programme. Hv. A senator might ask, " What is this song? ' I just want to say what. A member of the Parliament that the laws on public finances are not natural laws. A majority of the Generals can decide to change that law. A greater proportion of the Council may decide to change what is stated in the form of economic rules. A majority of the Generals can make a decision at any time. Because it is this way, regardless of all the laws, the Ministry of finance, and policy, that the government is still at the General. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u157	President. Who's a financial policy for? It's for the public. The question must be about how it affects this common people. I'm not on a budget or a financial and business committee, and I've been discussing a number of technical matters that I admit I'm hardly gonna step in, but I think I understand the core. When discussing such a course, there will be no avoiding the putting of things into context and discussing what atmosphere and when it is stated. I noticed that the highest. The minister of finance came into the discussion earlier and spoke of the need for maintenance in these times of historical interest. Because I know the highest. Secretary of finance is a writer and poet and knows the literary history and knows the story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, I wonder if there could be any match here, because one of them now appeared to me as secretary of finance, while the other appeared to me in the campaign in the Northeast District in the fall. Before the election, the public shouted for health and welfare, education, transportation workers, and other infrastructures, in fact, with such force that all classes promised to attack them. This was really normal, because even after losing weight in the economy after the administration of the year 2009,2013, the interiors have been submerged. It has also been called upon to plan to meet the problems of young people who do not have homes and renters. These people are digging deeper and deeper into the poverty trap of the rented market. October 10th. was to form an ambitious but desperate need for a transport program that was so intensely inundated with the forward and independent working regime that could not find a way to finance it. You will swallow a bright future, and restoration will spread to find yourself in some emergency. The publication of the Mosaic Law revealed that the words were to be replaced, for no attempt was made to earn money from those who could afford it. The intermediate level was reduced, and men do not use other income institutions such as high income taxes, fiscal taxes, incremental capital taxes, increased resource costs from the marine outlet, electricity, or tourism industry. Then there is no clear plan on how to cope with the consequences of tourism overgrowth, either the high level of success it is responsible for or the construction of roads and other infrastructures used by tourists. In fact, the article is about to step on other sectors, and now we are giving us a $20 billion tax rate, as shown in the financial bill. Such strength would be understandable, Madam President, when discussing assistance with the weak but very important profession, but hardly justified in these conditions. Still, we are in a situation where it is also difficult to put more spells on the article because of walking so high. Madam President. You can transport mountains by 20 billion, we could rebuild the health system, make the university competitive. We could lay the basis for social solutions to housing, so on. The only thing we need right now is governments, who are broad and courageous enough to attack such structure. Two main focus is the government's financial policy. On the one hand, she hardly assumes that the classes can keep their promises from the election, but she draws out that these two groups working with the independent party are traditional right categories. During the 80 days since the election, the mask has not only been dropped, it has been thrown into a trash can. Although it's more honest to just do it and get straight, it's gonna be very curious to see if you're going to reach it again and try to put it on your face for the next election. This betrayal will be so probablely confirmed on Friday, the day before April 1. It may well be that this year's big April walk will require that the classes not keep their promises in the fall. Although economicism is commonly spoken of as being a document with different objectives, it is made clear in what kind of government group will be building at any given time. Now, it seems, there is a plan to sacrifice everything in order not to engage in another tax system. Of course, financial policy should be made to include the essential structure needed to attack and all classes praised for the election, but it should be flexible enough to enable governments to respond to changes that may arise in national order. We have been taught by experience that after many years of fat years, these fluctuations have often been over seven to eight intervals. But neither is this financial policy. This is made clear in the budget that has been discussed here. It means that government spending must be no more than a given percentage of land production; the rate of government spending by 2017 is estimated to be 41.5% of land production. We know from the budget that expenses need to be increased. What does this right government decide? It agrees that expenses may only increase by 0.5% of domestic production beyond predicted levels. It is unwise, even dangerous, to set a budget for financial policy that does not assume that conditions will change in the economy. It has also been stated that rural society falls under this rule. How, on the other hand, are the communities in the country to give up the rest in the next few years? It has also been observed here that their debt ratios have indeed been reduced, but it is misinformed between the state and the rural community. Farmers perform a great service that the government does not fully pay for, I can mention the nursing homes and the ambulances, so I cannot see that the rural communities will bring back the rest. According to the foregoing, it will only fall to the State to live up to it. Of course, rural society needs more money from what is hopefully planned for, e.g. of tourists. If there is a contraction during the period, the spending rule will lead to no room for building on the insides of society, and then the cutting knife will take off. All common sense would just assume that the expansion of the Kingdom Fund would be under such circumstances while good years were being used to gather more material things. Madam President. It will be noted that there is little or nothing to be done with serious financial problems. However, that advice is arranged by the minister of finance, in this case the current prime minister, the captain of the bridge. For information on the Council, the Ministry's Homepage, by permission of the President, says: It is therefore aimed at evaluating whether financial and financial policies, which the government puts before the General Assembly, follow the baseline values the law says that public financial policies should be based on, but they are sustainable, cautious, stable, firm, and transparent. Nor is there a lack of logic in the majority sense why these critics are not a target. Yet, you would have felt that it was the lowest attempt to refute the viewpoints presented as criticism of policy. It is most recent to say that this security valve of the government, i.e. The financial Council, in particular, puts out that the spending rule does not take into account the cost swing correction. If so, it is clear that the expected amount of money left over should be greater. According to the financial Council, if the shoe is pressed, the welfare system will be cut down if circumstances change in the economy and the government is in a straitjacket of financial policy, as it says, I think it is almost correct. So this is totally unacceptable, so the Union suggests, as expressed in the view of Section 3, that this spending rule will be canceled so that governments can set budget targets every year when financial programmes have been adopted. A financial plan is an enormously important document. This is government policy throughout the terms and budgets must take into account. It is not permitted to be removed from it unless there is a devastating catastrophe over society or national preparations. Therefore, members of the administrative body must wake up and take at least is included in the discussion of this object. It is also disappointing that in the proposal of the government and in the majority of the budgetament committees, there is no response to clear comments from the financial Council that travel services need to establish a clearer frame and that more money is needed from the growing number of tourists. In that light, 20 billion will be the subject. The tax rate I mentioned earlier was even more odd. Madam President. According to the United States, there is a need for more investment in the health and education system and, in particular, attention to improving the ideal family, tenants, the first buyers for housing, the elderly, and the desperate. All too many in this group live in a crisis situation. It is easy to finance these important projects by increasing the government's income from resources, by collecting higher fishing costs, or by extending their salutation and by increasing the income of visitors who come to Iceland from an unknown number, and by collecting more income from major electronic energy users and increasing the equality of the tax system. Maybe that's what's been completely neglected, it's using the tax system to level the country's interest. Madam President. The success of society's development is especially based on calmness in the labour market. Economic stability is very important, but not enough. Social stability is the basis for developing a peaceful, just, and progressive society. Unfortunately, the last government to work on that stability by weakening income farms, reducing interest and child support, and not responding to the predictable problems created in the housing market. It seems the government is going to establish this instability. She does not intend to use the opportunities that are in the present future to improve the systems that we trust in. Now we experience the most economic growth in the Western world, but it must not go to just the best of the population. That's never going to settle. Now we have to start healing the wounds of the post-traumatic wounds, and they especially need to watch young people and tenants who don't enjoy much increase in real estate and rent prices. Many of these people enjoy the narrowest benefits, and they are at a loss for more expenses. Pensions have increased much less than the cost of housing, and this also puts a lot of people in trouble. There is no evidence from the government that these groups are to be met. We can collect new income from a government fund. That's what we're supposed to do. We need to lay the basis for social stability, but the required measures are effective. Madam President. Iceland is on its own to use a unique year trip resulting from successful economic development following the collapse, macro queens, and major visitors'visits. It has provided the basis for our success today. We are to be able to build a happy, peaceful society that is desirable. Of course, the wisest thing to do would be to base on the Norwegian welfare model, perhaps the best model in history. It's based, Madam President, in three pillars; a stable economic government, a three-sided labour market model for employees, employers and the state, but especially a powerful welfare system that ensures this multi-scale social stability. Sadly, the government does not seem to have the confidence or the courage to go there. How sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u158	Madam President. Hv. A senator spoke here about Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Dr. Jekyll was a sophisticated man while mr. Hyde wasn't very wordy. I thought why. A senator does not speak of fraud in a piece of paper he has not seen, that is big words. I think maybe we can play the part that he's the mr. As secretary of financeEinarsson I'm Dr. No, which I think might be appropriate. He asks: "Why do you hold back from this good time? It's never better to take care than when it's going well. But the goal is to reduce the growth of the state, individuals and businesses in Iceland. That's what matters. Let us not forget, too, that in times of living up to its cost, doing so is more costly. If the bow is high, the Kingdom will also raise prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u159	Madam President. In itself, I knew that the highest. A financial minister would be well - versed in his literary history. The reason I mentioned this was because I had the highest. Secretary of finance has found many meetings in the pursuit of elections. He didn't speak on those lines then. I'm asking, "What's changed? " Has his understanding of the world and the economy changed in those four months, or has the Independence Party achieved such a marvel? Or did he sail under a false front? That's what it's all about. This is not consistent with what the candidate Benedikt Jóhannesson foretold for elections and to the highest degree. The minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, now says. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u160	Madam President. Hv. In his talk to rural communities and income of rural communities, a senator gave up his talk. I have previously described my view that it would be right to strengthen the farm society's income markets. I have, for example. mentioned that it might be normal to transfer a host tax from the State to the local community. I think that's a good idea. Farming is to be seen in the development of rural society as well as in the reduction of growth. We only have two economy tools, we have the money left over by the government, and we have the interest box. The greater the remainder of the public, the lower the growth may be. Then let's Logi. Councilmen, including Einarsson. Don't forget that policy has 2% scope for lowering growth and less maintenance at the end of the period. That's 66 billion bucks. It's also money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u161	Madam President. It is, indeed, a lot of money, if anything else. A financial minister can make sure that his growth declines. I know what it's like to know. During the election, a minister said that he wanted to strengthen the farm population of rural money, but first of all, he said that the resources of the land should be added to the countryside. Where is that policy? Where is the policy of bringing more money to the fishing industry so that the settlements can be strengthened? It's steamed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u162	She's in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u163	Madam President. I thank the senator for the speech that I loved very much. She took exactly the factors we've been discussing here, i.e. the underlying financial agenda ahead and what it will take or will not take. I agree, because I was in a campaign with them too, that we may not feel that it is going exactly after, what was there presented. Hv. A senator came in on the charge roof, and there's a precaution here and all that. I'd like to ask him about working together the policy and the plan. In view of the situation, we cannot control what this really means, that the plan actually covers the infrastructure of the government, I ask if we should postpone the policy and take it off, as we did last time -- that's not the Prosthetics, but that's just to try to get around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u164	Madam President. The plan will appear to us on Friday. She needs to take this course into consideration. What is presented in this policy gives you little confidence as to what happens Friday. The important thing is that we're standing here on social stability, building infrastructure, health, education, as all classes praised for elections. We can't afford to, at least not according to this financial policy, to do it if there's a local failure, and something serious about the nation, which, of course, will happen sooner or later temporarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u165	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's exactly what I'm thinking. If we don't have to close our course and see that the plan doesn't do what we think it should do then maybe we can look at the policy and say, "This isn't working - instead of shutting us in with it. " That's what I mean and I'm worried about it, I don't want that to happen. The consumption is minimal. We know that. She's been very low lately in spite of her goodness. The minister here says in his speech, and it is noted in his report that the management is in irons, taking into consideration the economy. In his talk, he also said that to reach the goal of subsidies, the figure is about 5 billion. I can't understand this other than that there's been some kind of privatization going out here and some kind of privatization going on. Because as the senator came in, and we've discussed before, there's no prior income supply expected. Thus, there is nothing more that can be proclaimed than a contraction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u166	Madam President. That's exactly what I think is the scariest thing in this. In today's tensions, it would have been wise to go to the income - raise levels of those who can effectively handle it. However, I have been familiar with this kind of work because in the first part of my life, I was guided only by assuming that everything would be more successful and better. Of course, you always got hit every few weeks. That's what I'm afraid is now that when he comes, people are bound by this financial policy and are forced to cut down. And what does it do in a society where infrastructure is going down?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u167	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree on a number of agreements as to the policy set out here, the right - to - do maintenance policy being set here. Here, however, many members of Parliament have called for construction in various fields. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who calls for structure: Does he think it is reasonable for him to put off this case until the financial agenda is established? I reviewed earlier that there was a bit of a rush to settle financial policy because there could be no improvement in the financial agenda unless there was no compromise between sides, but no increase could be made. Even though it was funded by earnings - I have pointed out that it is all human work and that we are still under the jurisdiction - I ask: Is it not normal, because we are still initiating this process, and it seems to be the way the senators talk they're headed for a great structure as they measure this policy adrift, that we just wait for the plan and see the figures in black? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u168	Madam President. Yes, I think that would be wise. I think we could be tying ourselves right now and see the consequences we regret on Friday. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is a sensible man, I know and I know that. I know he's flexible too. The poets are flexible. I challenge the highest. Secretary of finance to consider this idea, whether it will pay just to stay and then we all agree to go to the reforms that we truly promised in our last election.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u169	Madam President. The reason I suggest this is because it is true that I feel at all times in the discussion. Councilmen speak in a way that should be prepared for a five - year course, like this. So they say to one side, and in the other, they say: " Then we have to get into a lot of structure, we have to make a lot of extra donations to health care and do things here and there. Eight o'clock. Don't members agree that Friday's program is totally tied up? Eight o'clock. Do members of the council discern the degree of uncertainty involved in this issue? That's why I say, and what. A senator takes it seriously that I feel that this is something we need to discuss, not necessarily because it will be an example but because we are initiating a new work ethic. Everyone here has acknowledged that there have been things that have been going on in the process of working, and this may not be the best choice. Part of this new practice is to take a breath and just pause so that people will know what's going on here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u170	Madam President. These types of things so that everything that happens here is a new work ethic for me, and many of them actually make me feel a little strange and other good. But I'd love to hear what you're talking about. If it turns out on Friday that there is no room to attack the things they both promised before election, and that they know so earnestly that it is needed to maintain their country's settlement and to create equal living conditions, regardless of sex, age, and residence. Yeah, let's just hang on a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u171	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned the cutting knife, but perhaps it would be interesting to add the phrase: or a large sale of property. This is the other way to earn money, so it is not just to grab the cut-off knife but to sell property to save a fortune when the pressure may be severed. Anyway, I'd be interested to know how financialism would help. A senator is now in charge of financial programmes, as he is now a senior member of the employment committee and the financial sector is to be introduced into a professional committee. I'd be interested to hear the opinion of non-profit bodies of the Commission and the Economic and Business Committee how this financial policy, like an outside party, will come to the fore to help. A senator in the discussion of the plan they are considering right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u172	Madam President. It probably saves a professional committee member that she now serves very little, almost no case has come from the government, and the matters of Congress that have hardly come to the Committee. So it's as light as it gets. But the foundation is, of course, that there is a danger that this financial policy we are now willing to accept is bound to both shoes, and we may have no real possibility. There's a lot of things we can say, and we can give a little less and more opinion. But can we really do our part so that the building work and building work will be carried out and all praised?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u173	A respectable president. I hope I don't reveal my ignorance, but I guess a transport plan has something to do with a professional network committee and some committee about innovation and stuff like that. I'm trying to get the external opinion of the members of other committees outside those who deal directly with the budget how they intend to apply things. The financial policy to be started now, and should be discussed in the near future, should be used as a firm support. In fact, I guess she doesn't help at all. I might be checking it out. A senator will agree with me on that. Because it's just because I feel like there's very little need in this financial policy that you can offer the basis for a further strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u174	Madam President. It may well be. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator just knows it better than I do, in fact, how hard we are when it has been approved and put forward. A treatment plan was adopted at the last assembly. It hasn't been to the Committee. I don't know if it's the highest. A secretary of transportation is going to send her back into the council. [[Up front.]] So how does it come? How, then, does it appear? Did it appear as will of the council and the nation were before the election? Or does it appear as a result of the policy we are accepting now and the financial program we agree to on Friday? I'm afraid so. I'm afraid now that we're going to go out and seduce all the branches that are going to allow themselves to reach the sky. The shirt will just stay behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u175	A respectable president. It's not my intention to extend the discussion in particular. There is, however, a need for careful discussion on this matter, such as a proposal for a judicial resolution on financial policy in the year 2017,2022. What surprises me most perhaps during financial policy is what it is. These are nine pages during the financial hearings of a proposal to conspire financial policy for the year 2017●22022 is 27 pages. I find it quite amazing that on the 27 pages of a financial body, with a few indications and so forth, even indications of a certain discrepancy that may appear on these nine pages here, the majority of which seem to be no reason to put a small amount of work through. By permission of the president, this is the word: The ◆ The more part suggests that the proposal will be accepted unchanged. I think it's a little vivid for the majority of the work and majority of the resources that have hovered over lakes, especially after last term, where things come completely out of the plot and we're just clock service. They never take any note of that work, the comments, or the indications that are suggested to make things better. I think it's very boring. We're trying to do some cooperative and conversationalalalalalist thing and I don't know what. I think it's a little sad that there are no modifications made in such an important document as a proposal to conspire financial policy before 2017-22022, that doesn't seem to matter. On page 18. 21 In the opinion of the fiscal Council for a proposal for a judicial resolution of financial policy, it is presented a slight discrepancy between the report and policy, with permission of the president: The report calculates the decrease in debt ratios calculated from the end of 2016 and over six years, while the direction itself is aimed at a period of five years since 2017. This is not important, but it did not even seem to be a reason to correct it. I'd like to agree with what a financial body points to; that both financial and the Council can do their part, as the law says, it is necessary to have access, not only on grounds and results of financial policy at any given time, but also on the basis and on the course of policy. Your bones need meat. There's nothing here that can be called a policy that is so fixed. It's a very thin 13th that's coming from the Ministry and it doesn't seem to be a great will for the greater part to add anything else. There are some critical issues from a financial body that could have been taken into consideration, but there is no reason to do so. Perhaps there is little more benefit in discussing it. For example, financial advisers, by permission of a president, say: However, at the same time, the uncertainty of the future will have to be taken into account. It must be considered how to take into account uncertainty in policy areas. A financial body feels that it is important that the government prepares for a specific risk assessment or forwarding imaging to increase policy transparency and prepare response. You can't say that these nine pages here show the stage photos, the risk estimations, or the same as shown in the Senate arrangement. One thing I'd like to point out. That's what we talked about. The chairman of the commission, the Haraldur of Benediktsson, and the majority's wing. The budget board. It says, by permission of the president: ...one of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period of policy has to do with the sale of state funds, particularly business banks. [...] Clearly, the subsidies of the State's debt are largely determined by the way in which these assets are sold. It was shown in the matter of what. The head of the Committee, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, said that the foundation of the entire financial policy was actually sales of banks. A week ago, I went to an unprepared queries class at the highest level. The secretary of finance, where it was found that there were no special plans for selling the property of the state in Iceland and U.S.A. and U.S. Bank, to witness, by permission of the president, directly to the highest term. Secretary of finance dropped here in a pita. Certainly, the entire area is protected. I agree that there are many things to consider when we consider selling banks. But there is a problem with the fact that one week there is no particular plan to sell the banks and the highest. The secretary of finance relies in response that there is no special plans now and says: ◯ And I have said it would be better and more successful for the nation that it will be available slowly. At the top. The secretary of finance is completely in agreement there. But when words and deeds don't go together properly when I read the majority colors. The budget is, in fact, a plan on how to make personal use of the banks. I don't mind. I believe it is quite right to have a detailed discussion of the future planning and answer questions, such as how the banks will be best equipped to sell. That's right. Then, too, it must be made clear. Is it about to sell banks, or is it not about to sell banks? That's a big question and High School. We have simply received conflicting answers during the past week. We're trying to develop a financial program that goes for five years. The share of state funds in business banks is about 450 billion. We are talking, not about some small amount, but about a total load of weight in the programs that the State can make for the next five years. I need to direct this question right back to the highest level. Financial Minister: Is there any plans, special or not special, no matter how far they go, how far they go, plan or plan to sell part of the state on business banks or not? Well, according to the majority opinion, that's the plan. According to the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance isn't on the table, as far as I understood the most. I'd like to point out something else, so I don't spend all the time talking about whether we're going to sell banks or not, even if I could do it lightly, but we need to talk about all the money we're talking about. In part, we take up this arrangement as a Swedish example. That means spending a little time and money building a support network for us senators and us politicians and the entire state benefit to carry out this arrangement with some ambition. As noted in my antiquities earlier, 2016-181 page rapports are actually ambitious, in fact, in the report. Finanspolitiska rådet also has a full website where it explains its work. We need to become more ambitious. It is to be discussed by the media. This is a macropolitic case, not a small matter, it is something that should really take time to discuss and take into account when criticism is presented. For good reason, it points out something that can be done better, as the financial adviser points out, with the permission of the president: If the situation proves to be different, financial policies can become a straitjacket. Instead of a point evaluation for target targets, it would be preferable to use the economic rhythm-corrected range assessment. You can read all of this on page 19. Twenty-five in the review of the financial council. It's not a small piece of paper. It is, in fact, a scandal for the council to say that economicism is such a perfect document, a monotonous from the Ministry of finance, so much, so beautiful and ready for everything, that there is no need to make half a change in the course. It's a legal committee. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. I would have wanted to see some sign from the council when it comes to this important course. This is what I wanted to say. I see no reason to extend my case any further. But the big question is, Should we sell it or not sell it to a bank? Second, we need to be more ambitious in this matter, making better support systems around it. And this conclusion is to be submitted by the General Assembly. Even if it comes from a minister, we need to put our mark on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u176	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to discuss the first sale of banks, even though it was done pretty much tonight. I'd like to reiterate that in the banking policy, I've established a policy that the state should sell its entire share at Arion Bank, in Iceland Bank, but remain in the National Bank of England at 33◯40%. However, there is now no particular plan to sell. Nobody's ever asked to buy this thing, and I haven't put it in sale. But I'd like to ask what. A senator: Does the senator think it is right to sell the banks, and when? How would the senator sell banks? I think it's important that we do this because the senator declared that she thought it was right for the banks to be sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u177	A respectable president. When to sell banks, and when not to sell banks? That's a very big question. For one thing, it is the right time to sell a bank once we have made a specific process and form a trust. When the government's banking agency arrived last year with its notice that perhaps it was time to sell a share at the Lands Bank, if I recall correctly, I felt much distrust from the public. I think we need to build our trust primarily in the government, with the politicians, that we can do this properly. I would like to start slowly, sell as little a share in the banks as possible and get a good market price for. I would sell it over a long period of time, do similar things in Norway and Denmark, where banks were privateised over a half century. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u178	Madam President. Thank you. The elder's answer is heard that we agree in principle. That's exactly what I said in my reply last week, I thought it was important to hurry slowly. Hv. A senator also mentioned that this document is thin. In fact, it is even more thin than a whale. So the senator said that it is primarily this tablet that is on the front of the panel. Then I'll think so. Since the senator would like to have the council put its mark on the proposal, I would like to ask: What do you think? A senator should be a lot of leftovers of the A-part of the State Fund over the period? What does she think is an desirable debt ratio at the end of the season? And what does it think it would be right to set the total cost of the State on it? Which are the three main numbers that are in the document. How could they have changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u179	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. She's really fun. Could be something I haven't gone through too much. Yet, even if the synonym itself is very short, there are strong comments, such as. It is also a matter of financial control, and it is also a matter of concern. about how things are fun. Nor is this a good article with the bill, so to speak. But I don't have answers on my hands right now, but I believe that more consideration could have been given to the stories received. There's a reason people send in envelopes. It's not that it's unforeseeable. Unfortunately, I'm not on this committee and I may not be able to answer as accurately as I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u180	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you something more. Here's what we've got. A senator correctly included in the handling of financial tips completely ignored. Especially in terms of the greater part of the dog. The budget board. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she's any closer than I am. Because what I ask myself after this discussion today is: What is the purpose of this financial council if there is so nothing to be done with the suggestions it presents, not even contradicting them and pointing to other means, or reasoning in some way that such an enormous document is being presented by the committee? [[The president calls.]] Like what? A senator said, on pages 27
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u181	A respectable president. I appreciate that question from what? Senator. The only right answer to this is, "I don't know. I don't know what financial advice's going to be doing. It's here with some good tips, for example. by permission of the President: Without further fragmentation of the public, in the primary and capital balance, information on specific income and budget measures as well as correction for the impact of the economy, the underlying yield and the real maintenance level are therefore unclear. It's, like, a... something that could have been considered further. But sometimes it seems that we make clouds, dreams, but then we don't have money, not ambitions to do this properly. I think financial advice in itself did a wonderful job. They are to be commended for this. However, this does not seem to be taken seriously. It's a little bit of a go-along in Icelandic politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u182	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an honest answer and to say that he does not really know what the financial counsel is after all. I just think it's a question we must ask ourselves. Of course, we're talking about financialism as the foundation we're going to build all our work on until the next five years. If this is not to be any other or deeper than some political statement that is yes, should we simply ignore the fact that this is something that can be influenced and worked on? That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that? Takes it. A senator who's worried about me because we're starting public financial work in a totally mindless way because we ignore the very foundations on which we're supposed to build everything else, don't take instructions, tops. A government just puts out what's right for her political bitch and then doesn't take any consideration for the comments coming in? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u183	A respectable president. Yes, I have to say the word. Senator. It often seems to be a premise in Icelandic politics and policy. It seems like an example to me. A financial body explains its role quite well and also explains why this document, finance, is important. This is the beginning point of the whole context of financial, financial, and financial schemes. This is an opportunity for a government to free itself of responsibility for what is then presented in a financial or financial program. No, you've approved the financial policy until the next five years, oh, you've approved the financial agenda, yes, and then it's just the way it works. What is the authority of the council? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u184	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I just want to talk to her about this news-named document from a financial body that I think is very important to me, and I want to put it into practice with the senator. This is shown on page 22. 15 To develop an overview of the development of budgets and government-specific actions does not appear in financial policy. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The way we earn money is also important. The composition and interaction of taxes can affect economic demand and create different incentives. The presentation of this policy and specific action on the tax issues would likewise improve transparency and would increase policy juncture and give evidence of maintenance. It doesn't matter where you go in the big lines. It is either said that there is something lacking in transparency or in more detailed information and interpretation and so on. I'd like to ask the senator if she believes that we should slow down the debt and try to put more on the wood or if we should increase our income to meet the need for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u185	A respectable president. This is always a balance art, an effort to figure out how much wood can be spent and how to earn. I don't think there's one correct answer in that subject. It is certainly good to pay off debt, but the reason we borrow is to have a slight flexibility in the present. It is also about our being able to enjoy the kind things that are going on right now. I'm at the point that we have an urgent need to build wood. The hospitals are molded, and the roads cannot be driven on the West, the facility market for young people are confused, they must never do anything, never destroy any created thing. Then one asks himself, " What are taxes for? ' If taxes do not serve together, it may not be a great purpose to accept taxes and expenses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Well, that's the idea I think it's the right idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u186	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. You see, that's right. The taxes are for the financial value of the concordance. This government does not seem to have any such plans, or yes, the minister mentioned in the beginning something about green taxes, but it was very vaguely all of it. I would also like to ask the senator in view of the discussion she has been discussing today if she agrees with me that we should not handle this policy until we see the plan, i.e. can help us to see if we are storing ourselves up with far too narrow goals, with a charge roof, and other rules of office 7. Includes or whether she feels it is okay to complete this course. I'm also going to say about it when it's the highest. The minister asked her earlier question, which involved details, that this is just one of the things we can say we don't have the help the Minister has. The Parliament did not receive such assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u187	A respectable president. Yes, as indicated by the opinion of a financial body, there is a connection between financial policy, financial planning, and financial legislation. So that we can figure out where the government is headed, we have these nine pages, which are about one tablet of text that is supposed to be all the financial programme according to the highest terms. Secretary of finance, it is very important for us as a body of elders to see the budget before this is done. I think it's very responsible. You're right. A senator pointed out. We don't have this help. Senators, and I also think financial advice at once, I don't have that kind of help, the backland that is needed to get the job done carefully. I think it's a matter of time and again as a matter of Congress. We set a lofty goal, but then we simply do not have enough time and resources to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u188	Mr. President. I thank her senator for her speech. This has been about a lot of interesting and well - thought - out discussions about finance policy today. Hv. A senator took the Polish in an effort to initiate some debates about a mistrial position on sale or not selling on banks. So I'd like to ask the senator first, if she doesn't feel that the debt of the state's funds is still very high and if it's not important that we attack it. And as a result, her attitude toward the high financial cost that we have. I don't think it's possible to argue that when we have a fallen estate, such as a business bank registered at 450 billion, it can be very important to pay off debt and to reduce the financial cost of getting ahead with our community, which is the core of the committee's list of objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u189	A respectable president. Yes, I agree that we should pay off debt. I don't think anyone is directly against it. Then, in reality, it is a government policy at any given time, how fast it is being done. We can disagree on that. Selling banks, however, is not the only way to pay off debts or earn money. This includes criticism, at least on my part. It's so uniform. Selling a bank is not the beginning of the solution or end. There are other ways. For example, a fair profit could be paid from our common national resources, e.g. The fish. It's a income stock that the government hasn't used. Last government ever. A senator was now a member of the body of elders who dropped that amount of money considerably. We see a little alone in the presentation that is available on how to pay off debts. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u190	Mr. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I think at least we've been dealing with some stuff today. HB Granda and its existing status may not be the main concern of additional taxation on the seabed. I'm not going to get into it. Hv. In his talk, a senator said that there is a discussion about special or unscrupulous sales on the state's banks. I just have to admit that I'm a little confused about the senator's position on selling banks. Her comments were explained to the highest degree. Secretary of finance earlier. But I just want to add to the fact that in the panorama of the greater part we deal with the banks and their future organization and the great assets in it, both as my own money and the great wealth that the government fund has there and on now, and may possibly reduce its debt by releasing those assets. I think it's a good example of initiative taken by the Allied Economic and Business Committee, where she's been discussing bank and bank sales. That's why I want to end up asking questions. A senator's view of selling banks is what it really is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u191	A respectable president. What I was criticizing earlier was actually the highest word. Secretary of finance, where he said there was no particular plans for selling on the property of the state in Iceland and U.S. Bank. Where the highest. Minister wants to interpret certain things, like e.g. Near or near or special, I used, perhaps to settle any doubt, to become self - indulgent plans, thus to speak. Right away. A senator asks me if I should sell a bank. I don't think there's any big deal that the state has a bank. I don't necessarily think that's a priority. But how is selling the banks, where the knife appears in the cow. It's important to do this well. Otherwise, we'll return to what happened last time. It's just not time. There's no trust in the community. That's what I sense. We have to do this slowly, build trust before we sell banks. [[The president calls.]] Whether the state has a bank or not, I don't feel like a priority right now. If we are going to sell a bank, we need to do it properly. That's my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u192	A respectable president. This will be a political speech, but not in general. It is, in effect, a talk about political economics. I'd like to remind you to put it to the top. Governments are, in fact, a pillar of political economics, which easily intervening between opposing ideologies, between right and left, and capitalism and socialism, but those terms rarely hear here at the General but are still irreverently real. Money policy on the 6th floor. the law on public finance is to be based on concepts such as sustainability, caution, stability, firmness, and transparency. These are not scientific or strict terms. Rather, they are based on what political glasses are on you. I'm going to think about four of the terms that, in many respects, make the key to financialism. Self - Sufficiency - What Does It Mean? If we produce a major level of sustainable development to the financial policy, they are simply that natural resources will be used so that resources will be used, that communities will grow between social groups and non-party communities and within the capital area, and that the economy will provide good resources for the citizens in general. To all, so that society grows into general prosperity, not primarily the prosperity of some. It appears that there are more than one definitions of sustainability. That's what I hear. But I still believe that the Icelandic economy is not sustainable. Resources are under control, vast eco-efficiency is a fact, endless, rapid, high - quality changes are affecting homes and smaller companies, whole communities are in trouble, unsuspecting because self - preservation is taken away. The dissociation of wealth and possessions grows, but it does not decrease. However, I do not minimize opposition to these developments and efforts to improve, including groups that I do not like. You see, the community is becoming aware of other practices and other economic systems. Laws and government give rise to ever greater demands for changing economic management and other standards, not just green standards, but also with marks of equations. Social solutions are becoming increasingly widespread in the minds of people who sell their labor for a living. We want cooperation, not speciality, to tell people, and to look more and more frequently at the class that puts such things on the outside, as seen in the polls on parties, reminding them that in this country, there will be late social solutions in national affairs without the socialism and groups working together. In fact, the government policy is self-sustaining to see as little of the words left out by no one wanting to escape the concept of modern politics. Careful, what does that mean? Hardly unreceptive growth, hardly large requests, hardly constant compression in main sectors, subsection in goods based mainly on jet growth of one sector that is not controlled on sustainable levels. In contrast with HB Granda, which has cost back 40 billion dollars from 2008, it is hardly a matter of caution over the status of the bank's continued financial economy. Oh, no, no, no, If you are careful, is that not the way the government operates? Yes, caution in the policy plan means, in effect, that there should be no financial improvement in the community unless there is an increase in sustainable income. It is not about how to expand the contribution of those who are very well equipped for the combination. Caution should mark, in the contrary to the right policy, the implementation of sectoral revenues will be effective. Stability - Where really, in the direction of the government? For example, it appears that it refers to the old crew that justifies the interaction between pay raise and prices. It is then viewed as an automatic and natural law, but in reality the mantran involves efforts to maintain the level of pay that is necessary and practical to most people and is not based on the same old cookie theory that everyone knows. It makes it appear that professional leaders should correctly calculate what is called the payment and the remuneration of those who struggle for the cake. The truth is just as old, for the reward is to be drawn out of the gate. The profits of many companies are great, even more creditary. The slices of cake can be as large as the general wage earners can with their cookie knife without regard to the pre-dose regimen. In fact, the stability of government plans means, "Don't tax money, don't tax the highest income, don't tax a fortune. The result is equally clear: Inefficiency increases, poverty becomes more pronounced, well - kept, undisputed. To deny such a scene, the average increase in income or buypower cannot be referred to. The average numbers cover the sharp and sad lines, hide the wrongs. The balance should mean an increased equation, a slower economic growth, a lower competition, an increase in savings by means of cohesion, and a slower payment on loans so that most people can be better around the country. Lock - What can be read from that term? In reality, attach to ensure the well - being and transportation of the country? When the time comes when there will be no way to increase the money you earn to share, except when the economic crisis and income increase? Or if we are worse than now, are we firm to cut even more? Yes, it is the sort of firmness that can be read from this. Where, then, is the flexibility of the government's economic vision when it comes to reducing the floundering effect that is forced by the fast - increasing luxury of consumption and the growth of tourism? Can we achieve 2.5% of interest recommended by the Sylveiner without stabilising the growth of splicing? By increasing their income to the State and by simultaneously injecting into the welfare and infrastructure? No, we can't, of course. The bottom line of the government is to protect capital owners, major resource users, and a relatively small number of major people with more donations for the community. Instead, the appropriate costs for a job should be determined as much as possible, on large amounts, on energy production, energy-efficient industry and tourism in various ways, including the travellers themselves beyond the expected parking expenses, e.g. Many omissions that have been brought here earlier this evening. All of this is evidently meant to improve the government's income gate. Mr. President. After reflecting on these four key ideas, the contrast, social solutions, the left focus, can be identified. In terms of tax recovery, improvement in sustainability and stability can result in a decrease in dissatisfaction of tens of thousands of people with their terms and social status. With firmness and caution, resource use can be controlled better than now and enhance the firms and precautions precisely by finding balance between earnings and paying when new revenues have been obtained by equations. It's a responsible and taxable economy. I call attention to this new economic concept, equal taxes. The Gaming Council is waving a few red flags. I ask you, how much is it worth to do with the government's flag show? The financial threat analysis of financial law has already shown that the risk of an 11 billion is being overrun in part because of the demands of society against the government's liberal goals, e.g. 1.2 billion dollars. An additional method of transportation that is suddenly not even a little immoral, so that the above - quoted words are given. Secretary of finance. Doesn't such an increase in income take on more lawsuits? Yeah. Where should they be taken, beneath the roof of an economic swing, or if financial matters are ironed because of the practical ones? There is no way to abandon a government budget without trying it on climate. What did he say? The prime minister is not about their issues, that they were the most important issues of the day, are they not? It is clear that Iceland does not achieve its aims without significant additional funds in all the loose and incontrovertible plans established by the government. A billion will be lacking in energy exchange and other diverse ways to reduce greenhouse gases emissions as carbon gases are increased by different measures. These actions will not be tolerated and will not be able to survive for many years in the economy. The failure of the policy of liberalism to the government's income must not dictate the future of future generations. What about education? Where, for example, the college level is extremely poor? What about the health system, holes, and stress that everyone claims to promote? What about the economic environment of technological development and innovation, in which we are well within the reference countries when it comes to the proportion of budgets of GDP? So where's the sustainability and caution? What, then, is the vision of the future, except that, if well, the budget will probably be increased later in the election season? It's all at the same well. Whatever points of light we may have in the policy field, our policy is not shaped by the people's interests but by specialism and protection from the way we have been exposed for decades, with few exceptions. I'd like to argue that very many of us would like much more progressive financial policy, more reasoned and discussed financial policies, financial policies that will respect a very large percentage of the nation, which has over 40% property in this country against the other 60% of the property that the 10% of the population has in their hands. We want financial policy that is legal but that allows room for fair extra income to satisfy the needs of much more of the community, the people who call for a realistic welfare, education and transportation system, all of these usual and modernly that the same people deserve and need to live as a wealthy society can offer. That is, if it is justly divided and the highest interest is given - for what? I'm going to leave it to the Senate after I finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u193	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I would like to be curious about the opinion of a financial body when it comes to new legal policies. We're naturally taking this place properly here at the council for the first time. As we know, there should be a definite link between financial, financial, and financial policies. In developing financial programmes, which are the nine pages that we now address, financial policy should be fundamental. How does not having a clear picture of the future financial agenda affect our work at this council? Are we going to lock ourselves up in financial policy until we are five years old? This document is five years old. There was a lot of discussion about this at the council during the last term, I know, whether this was really possible, and if it was natural when the power was divided and who had what power. Is it moral to accept financial policy unchanged from the Ministry without knowing what financial strategy to follow? It's a good work ethic, considering. A senator? In the treatment of the council and the financial council, there has been no consideration for anything. It's all agreed on as well. Unchanged - this little page as the text of the synopsis itself, not to mention the report. Are we locking ourselves up? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman for these questions. Now I did not participate in these discussions here during my last term, and I find it difficult to give a clear answer. As I understand these new laws on government finance, they are presented to make the budget more firm. I can't see that for now it's been the only thing that has been doing for the CIA. The general body of budgets. We've received memos on a procedure that states that the committees taking over the bill or synopsis, or whatever it may be, are bound by the government's financial policy and financial programme that they can offer no suggestions for increased budgets differently than to suggest a reduction or an increase in income gain in return. It may well have been different, and before I can't see better than it's making all this work difficult. I don't know if this is the head of a good job. I would like to agree with the criticism that has taken place in various cases. Councilmen of the left movement have a green supply of this tribulation, this transfer of funds to the Commission, but do not have solutions to some of the how to turn the clock back. But I repeat, there is, of course, a greater need for financial support compared to what was once known. [[The president calls.]] At the very least, my experience is a community worker for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u195	A respectable president. Yeah, you're totally right about what you're talking about. A member of the council that this is done to form a measure of firmness, so we know that it is a measure of stability. I think public finance is a thank - you thing. What's missing in my opinion, and I'd like to know if. A senator agrees with this, that all of the support network around the financial work we need to get around is simply not there. This is shown by the financial adviser's criticism, and I'm going to agree with it, by permission of a president: For financial advice to be able to function as the law says, it is necessary to have access, not only to the reasons and results of financial policies at any given time, but also to the reasons and processes of policy. There appears to be a call for greater access to the details; the economic forecasts are made in a very homogeneous way: ▪ The forecast of the policy, however, does not take into account the impact of policy-making. Is this not a very serious and significant criticism of this financial policy? Then you ask yourself, and I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether it is reasonable to consider these points carefully before accepting their policy. And if not now, since elections were relatively late in the year but not in the spring as usual, so that we can see the interaction between financial policy and financial programmes to begin with. This is a five-year plan. This will tie up the council for five years. I feel that we are taking this discussion too lightly. I want to know what you're doing. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u196	A respectable president. Yes, I agree with that criticism. I think the government has made such a point here that it should be obvious that there should be some agreements between her criticism of both the depression and, in some respects, the methodology. Budget Council warns. In my speech, I mentioned red flags and asked what they were worth. They do not seem to have a powerful influence on those behind this report. This eco-efficiency target, perhaps the big agile pin in this direction, requires that all social repairs be automatic. It doesn't really need economy. If it's plus, it's plus and when it's minus, it's minus. This is not a complicated economy. I think that in the brain it will be very difficult to run an Icelandic community without there being the result of both another kind of thought, another form of ideism and a much more difficult and slower way of working than we've seen here. That's what I can say about it without getting far beyond my knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u197	A respectable president. We read in the papers this morning that there was something missing that all cases in the Government Constitution have begun to return to the council, but it would be only about one third in the house, even though some time had come to pass to issue this week. This report discussed with the government's foreman, and he asked what he would like about this. He was not impressed with this, but the big issue had come to pass. That's what we're gonna talk about right now. A five - year plan on how public funds of the state and of the community are arranged, the big lines of the combination, is a huge matter. That is why it is good to stop at the same peak. Like most members of the administrations, the director of the government, the prime minister, has not made a sound about this matter. Thus, their position on this policy is unclear, at least not stated here in the hall. I'm more likely to think that the Senate treatment of the matter is not greater than anything, so it's only ironed through here without a lot being done by comments. You see, what's the biggest issue I feel is one of the most unpleasant things. I may have been so late in the day that I wanted to, a respectable president, to go to a little religion and admit it to a president that I often got into school skimming on my ass with a job, starting too late on essays, didn't prepare me well before time, now usually did a job, but they weren't always what I would have chosen. That feeling is part of the work being done these days. This case is a clear example of this, a financial policy that comes in after a quick, temporary operation in the Ministry, has a rush through the council, and is then to agree with the runners before we take up the next financial program. It's supposed to be run out of jelly as well. It's the same feeling I got for Christmas, since the Senate event was way too small. It was a financial bill that the council gave itself to agree almost as much, and those senators who supported that procedure chose to, in effect, hand over some of the funds to the Eaglehol, something that is according to our constitution of the task. Just to be said, Mr. President, I take, like all of us who have expressed us in this matter, under the law's objective that the strength and responsible government of public finance matter. Of course. But that there is an unsurpassed policy in which the Ministers determine how to proceed, where we have this financial policy to accept continued criminal policy in public funds, unrealistic if it is based on the reviews of the case, to five years that we stamp again and again, first with a financial agenda on spring days and then in the budgets of every year, which, according to the Office of the Ministry, is only to be a token payment - I think we can stop at all times. There are a number of factors that may linger in this matter mainly on how crazy the time line has been during the past few weeks. In some ways, it is possible to honor stewards for a voracious way that the government laws about government finance cut them out of a very tight position. It is true that you use the term for financial advice to the highest degree. Ministers are in a tight line of time on public financial matters, as listed in Article 4. says that the government is to shape policy and bring forward as soon as possible, but it has quite time to contribute a budget. In a typical campaign year, it means that since the government is formed around May, it has forward until September to complete this task as we do now, because of the unusual circumstances we lived in the fall of our lives, to vote in October, and that the government was not formed until the end of January, is more narrowly set, because this pattern of time tells us that for May 1, every year, a proposal for a financial program that is based on a policy approved by it is proposed. It's a very narrow format, but it's a law written at this Council. It's a law that can be changed to the General if it turns out they're not going to pass the reality. I would like to go so far, a respectable president, to say that it is rather unrealistic to expect government and council to complete financial policy until five years of the time frame given from the development of the government to April 1. I think all around this case shows that it is simply too short. It might have been more correct for men to realize it at the Board of Staff and to have as early as possible to attend the council and simply to ask for an additional deadline, as I often did in college, because they were on their ass with the job. I don't think this is just my personal evaluation, it's a fact. Then consider a few examples of this high - time line. A financial body has two weeks to give the opinion of policy, two weeks to study a policy on how to distribute public funds for the next five years. They want to see that this is a policy rather than a forecast, so they will be spared to appreciate how practical it is that the economic growth that we have spent for nine years continuously for the next few years will thus be historical in all aspects if not some wider context as the longest economic growth in history. During the brief period of the financial Council to clear the course, this brought good results. Because of the short time frame given, the Council's report is another straddle of the document that came to the council. A number of times it is noted that this and the other analyses were desirable to follow and to further explanatory information on the other and these terms of financial policy. Under that, it seems most people are taking. But we're going to make it happen. This is only to be run through though all these basic information is missing. The government may be caught in a straitjacket of the course, says the review of financial advisers, if the situation proves to be different from the projection. Although it may be possible to do so, the financial Council does not have authority or authority to determine whether these predictions are practical. Then we come to another strange deadline in this case, which is that the Council Committee you would have thought was the best way to evaluate the realistic predictions of financial policy, economic and business committees, is given a day to clear up the national interests of policy. Dagur. The committee naturally sacrificed their hands and said: "We can't do this. She told a financial committee that they might look at the budget when it arrived if there was enough time to do away with it. All the time we've been working on this case, all the while that we've been working on the induction of public finance laws, whether at the council or at the Ministry, all of us have been in real trouble because we're being made to start running before we've learned to walk. It's a complex, high-profile mechanism that requires expert knowledge at all levels. This expertise has been enhanced in the plots. But it did not return more in the financial work than the Ministry was having a real problem putting changes in budgets into the computer system, which you would think would have even simpler projects in public finance, so you don't want to think about how the more complex matters are in the plots, which still brought money to promote expertise. Something that the council doesn't have. The Congress may be ill enough to expose government policy to five years of minimum humanity, no, not even that, with less than minimal humanity. In this way we should be able to move our course far ahead. We are to be able to bind our hands out of this ideal period regarding how to distribute public funds. There is also another example that I find quite vivid about how the pressure has been tripled, which is that the people of a financial committee who made arrangements and wrote their opinion of the committee did so before a deal with the rural communities, which is the other side of financial policy. The fiscal policy includes spending and earnings of the state and community, both sides of the government. The pressure is so intense that it rolls the case without any agreement, the same communities, and pointed out in the Senate that these are unrealistic expectations for the survival of rural society, that the figures expected were not intended for the local communities themselves. No, we just close our eyes on it, and we'll continue to roll it with the opinion of the committee that is written before all the information is available. It's a little small, 'cause we're used to it because it lacks all kinds of analysis and information in this process, we're used to flying blindly on this case, we don't remember to keep it going and shutting it off, so we're wearing just a blind fly. What then? If this financial agenda is adopted in the coming days, which must be done so that the Council can work on the basis of financial policy, which is due Friday, the budget will be adopted. We've really got an ambitious plan to slide on our ass one more time. We have had a work plan shown in a draft that assumes that the next week, the week of the first Passover break, will be new in measuring the case, refers to the panels, and then referred them to the members of the council. Then it's Easter break, two weeks. At that time, no one will meet in this room. At that time, it is not expected that the committee's committees of meetings, the professional committees in accordance with this procedure should review their classes of legal cases in a budgetary program to give their financial recommendations to the financial committees. No, members of Parliament are given the last week of April to get a hell of a lot ahead of a national budget. You ask yourself: " When should I take into account the views outside this house, outside the financial department? When should we hear those who run the Land Hospital or the University of Iceland? When are their views to fit into these Parliamentary policies? When members of the council are going to do this, or they will be the same as was here on hand with a budget bill for Christmas that they don't care about what any other person in town says, some presidents as the current senior officer. The prime minister from this chair was disturbed by the financial evasion of merely talking about the mismanagement of his institutions on the outside of what was acceptable to governments? When should the council listen to these voices? What, then, should the council be able to do? Are we going to reimburse Burkaks and Burkraa financial programs without putting political weight on them? Why don't we just be in the role of accountants, comparing the Agency's management programmes to those of the council? Or should we start making some political bitch around the way we distributed money from this hall? Maybe we should start taking our financial resources a little seriously. I'm very worried that we're going out on time for the next step, just as we've slipped out of time every step up to this point. This will not be evident in the fact that we go ahead of schedule but in the fact that we do the worse. It shows what we're talking about today, the government policy. It's not working well, at any point. Then, in the end, a respectable president, I want to begin with the highest words. The financial and economic minister who in one of his talks today said it was a mistake to talk about the financial policy of the right government, because once the Senate had approved this policy, it would be a financial policy for the entire council. President. I'll allow myself to protest. This starving policy of the right government, which is not afraid to take money from those of its own, big business people, polluters, to set priorities for those who don't own; it's not my policy. If this policy is adopted here at the council, this is the policy of those who accept it. I expect, a respectable president, to become supporters of the right categories, even though they may not be very helpful here in the discussion. I assume they're all arranged as one of the green buttons at a vote. Then it's just going to be, a respectable president, a state-of-the-art district policy that's not about the people of the country, it's going to be a pointless cutback policy and a starving policy in public business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u198	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I agree with many of its statements. I would like to know how much political treatment is needed to make sure things are done well. Like others before Christmas, I felt that it was working too fast and was not being sufficiently careful about things that matter. I wonder what. A senator can help me to reflect on the question of when there is enough in this subject, how we value the methodology. I think it's perfectly clear, no matter what methodology would be developed and how it would be used, that this financial policy would never get through it, since it isally highly questionable. I'll come to that later in speech. How can you tell? A senator posing the checklist? What factors would be needed? I have some visuals on financial policy, e.g. A pay-off policy, tax policy, other government revenues, a baseline financial institution were made available, e.g. shows up, and you could also follow stage photos. Besides, I'd like to ask you why. A senator can see how the situation would be realized if the conditions given on economic outlooks were to be met concomitantly by the rise of an assembly rule of 1.6% if the order of the crew of the Crown is not met without too much growth in GDP. I ask, in the context of the fact that GDP is, in fact, a change in the amount of money in the economy is not a measure of economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u199	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. How much therapy does the Congress have to offer so that we can be comfortable with the situation? I don't know what would have to be on the checklist mentioned by the senator, but the points he listed were at least a good start. Of course, films are important, as financial advice points out. It would also be necessary to check that the target is a failure rather than a dot. That it's a reality connection, that some words are attributed to the evolution of economic growth and, for example, the development of economic growth. The late bank has pointed out how this would affect national preparation if major recessions were to be made in tourism because of adverse circumstances. There are plenty of things to take into account. But perhaps what is missing in this house is that it is enough for the council to handle this project, that we have time and circumstances to process all the facts here. The Ministry could certainly give the council a lot more detailed work, but in the end, the council must be the person responsible for the work. To that end, we need so much better circumstances than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u200	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree, of course, the Generals would need more than that, and they could be better equipped to fulfill their role. Of course, if we receive more evidence, we may be better equipped to fulfill our role. For example, it would be most interesting if we could now see the financial plans of this year before accepting financial policy. I, for example, mentioned a few things that might be on a checklist. In fact, all of them have lost the law on public financial matters. True, one thing was missing, long-term commitments. Really, my question is, The comment that all of this is missing. There is no need for work in the legal financial policy. So I ask. Senator: Is this okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u201	A respectable president. Is that okay? asks the senator. No, of course not. Of course, it is not all right here at the council to pretend that we are muleed, that we are crushed by the law on public finances, just as it was during the Christmas budget discussion. It is not possible to make a requirement for the council when the Commission fails to pass the same laws. You would think that there would be one thing over everyone to walk and that during this ensuing phase, if we were to give the power an endless chance of passing out here a half-baked piece of work, we could not act as if we were accepting a Gospel that should just be photocopied and sent out without a word of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u202	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before the speech. I can't agree that the amount of time that it was possible has not been given. I suggested this financial policy on the first day of the council, and I quickly explained it. Therefore, this procedure has been maintained for two months. It would be very interesting to know how long it is normal to give. This was the longest time we could make, and I tried to apply the letter of the law that said that the course should be submitted as soon as possible. I know why. A senator has studied the comments on the bill. One thing caught my attention. I think I'm correct in saying no client said that there was too much money policy involved. So I want to ask you why. A Congressman: What does he think is normal? If 1.5% is minimum, what should be considered? A senator, then, the normal procedure? Secondly, I want to ask who. A member of the council, since he listed here a starving policy in public finance: The government's rising expenses or government spending at an absolute price of 8% last year. What does that count? For example, if we think of sustainableness, which is one of the terms mentioned in the laws on public finances, would a senator naturally experience an increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u203	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Questions Armor opposed. Now, not only are we arguing with the minister of this room but we are sharing the same timeline. The fact that the minister made the decision on the first day of the council tells me, considering what the matter might look like, that he might have taken more time at the Ministry to win it. The lack of time, whether with us or with him, covers all the time. Then perhaps he could have fulfilled laws on public financial matters and would have produced all the diagnostics required and, as financial advice points out, to be neglected. He said he would promise to put in another one of these after four, and even though I hope that he will not again become a minister of finance after that election, living is the best way to live. Yes, I've studied reviews, but I'm asking myself if the highest. Ministers have done the same. He says here that no client said that holding too much was too much, that he has overlooked the review of Iceland's Democratic Association, which says, on permission of Presidents: In recent years, government income institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of the financial situation and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. The minister is starving, understandable, I'm not putting any percentages or numbers on how much it's normal to add to business. I'm just going to say that when the Art University isn't in mold shelters, when people don't have to say no to necessary medical services, when the university can hold out the necessary education without cutting down a year from now on, we're in the right place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u204	Mr. President. I have to reiterate my question to the question. A senator: If he believes that the claim is not too much, what does he consider proper? This involves our identifying each of us as to what our conclusions are. This is one of the things we're supposed to do in financial policy, knowing how much money is left over from government funds. If the senator believes that the claim is too great, does he prefer to pay higher interest? Does he think that the interest of an Icelandic company, the public, the state, is too low? Does he feel that it is more beneficial to pay higher interest and to spend less money? It would be interesting to know the answer to that question by reason of the question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u205	A respectable president. I don't know how much longer to chase. A minister may feel uncomfortable proclaiming right policy, starving policy, and cutting down the necessary service. I just want to agree with the Minister when he said, as a civilian running for elections, that transport needs to be greatly improved. Is it not true that he also spoke of a call to build up at the Land Hospital, as we all did? Would he not, like everyone involved in an election campaign, realize that the educational system is seriously ill, as the health system has been way too long?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u206	The questions. Answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u207	A respectable president. I'm just not that type-in-lawed to want to put this in an excel document to answer a cross question for the highestv. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u208	No, just here in the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u209	I want this to be about the ministry. It's not granted. That's why it's a starving policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u210	A respectable president. First, I want to draw attention to the highest. Minister is participating in the discussion, I think it's awesome. Only to his last words, I may want to continue with that discussion, but it can be said that the council has a certain lack of attention. We jump from one story to another without finishing the last grad. Now we're talking about financial policy for five years. The pressure was that we would finish this tonight, financial policy for the next five years, finish it in one night, in one discussion. The policy is to be under budget every year for the next five years, and it is to explain the emphasis. If it doesn't, as hollow as it is, we won't find a reason for emphasis on one field of motion over another. There is a problem with the supervision that will be followed by the Council. There, the differences between the council and the European Commission are crystal identified. The staff and the professionals have been asked to explain why 1.6% is going on and not 1.9% or 1.75%, or something like that, we may bring up at the site. We do not have the position to search the models we need to evaluate our policy. I'm asking why. A senator who is a member of the General and Education Committee - as I asked him why. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson - in which many major areas come up with a financial discussion: How does the conference help the senator to appreciate the work that needs to be done on the financial agenda that comes next week?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u211	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the questions and must admit that I dread this assignment. I don't think it's comfortable that we, in the race for the next few weeks, are going over all the lawsuits that are being heard by the General and Education Committee and that we're going to follow this course in some vague procedure that we need to invent on the way. It's not gonna be a happy life, I think, on any committee. I find it interesting that the senator mentioned this with the expertise of the Ministry in view of the lack of expertise we have because of the limited benefits we have. I think things are turned on my head. I would even go so far as to say that this will go against the democratic order of things. The government's on our clearance. As we sit in this room, we have the legal authority and the financial resources. In view of the discussions that take place around public financial laws, a section of the Parliament is satisfied with handing over the funds to advise, as is true in certain respects of the legal rights, because of the ministry's having these positive facilities for itself, a lot more important for the experts working there than at the council to deal with the situation. It's not a problem we solve here at 10:30 p.m. on Tuesday night, but it's something we should always be aware of and something we have to work on, i.e. To bring into this chamber the power of money, and the lawgiver, that it may not be lost, into this chamber where it belongs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u212	A respectable president. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator says that we live under such circumstances. The independent professionals who come to our meeting, explaining what's wrong, don't give a hell of a grade. Among other things, it was financial counsel. Time and timelines are now referred to as a map of time, etc. June is free, I can sit here on June 17th, there's no problem, I don't see anything wrong with that. The policy was set up at the beginning of the assembly on the first day of a conference, but now, after two months of work, the reviews of professionals, the debates of interest stakeholders, remain unchanged, without change now two months later, despite all reviews. Clearly, something more than professional comments is needed. I don't know how this works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u213	A respectable president. You ask yourself, " If people don't listen to it, how long will it last? ' During the short time they had, a financial body put hard work into it. It identifies countless things that could be done, and nothing is done with them. That's not good enough. It's just a matter of death and death. I agree with the senator: There is enough time until the fall when the budget is due. I don't know if people in general realize that most of April is suspended because of Easter, followed by three and a half months of Congress during the summer month. They do not have to pinch much of that time and set up meetings in the Assembly Hall in order to resolve various national agreements and do so in a tricky and orderly manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u214	A respectable president. There's been a lot of good here tonight, other than that. I don't know exactly what to add to this discussion. I wondered for a while before if I should present my language in a sign - language dance in an effort to get the best of it. The United States of Congress. However, since I am an expert in that field, I did not put it into practice. I'm gonna stick to the big movie, with the politics. Despite the sound of my voice at the highest. Minister that he prefers more of a procrastination. Senators respond to the exact percentage of the others, and this is what I'm going to allow myself to be in the big lines. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is a mathematician, if I recall correctly. I've always had a fearful respect for mathematicians. I personally chose a course in high school considering where the least was math instruction. But there are things to be read about, numbers to be run out, despite the fact that the General didn't order the same experts in that field as the Ministry and the need for the General with the members of Parliament with my math skills. But I know how to look for information. What's the situation? Who's the politics? What are these big lines? Let's figure out that Iceland's financial policy is being established for the next five years. There's a little bit under there. During the past six years compared to 2016, Iceland's own money doubled, increasing almost 1,400 billion. From the clean stock created since 2010, the richest 10% of the population received 4 out of 10 dollars. By the end of 2015, Iceland's own money took over 3,000 billion dollars, an increase of 430 billion that year. The richest tithe of the country contained 1,880 billion of that property. 64%. The remaining third was divided between the 90%. In 2015, $ 114.2 billion was reached. All of it. 79.2 billion of it rolled to the richest 10% of the population. The total of 13.3 billion to the next tithe, so that the richest 20% of the population had 81% of all capital incomes. The richest 10% of the Icelanders also own 86% of the stock market. 361.5 billion out of 422,3. I reiterate that this is compared to 2015. 93% of the cost of these stocks went to the richest 20 thousand of the Icelanders. Let's get this together. The top 10% of the nation owns 64% of Iceland's own money, 69.4% of all capital incomes in 2015, 86% of all stocks in the country, received 93% of all the valuables of that stock. This was at the end of the last government's reign. What did you do to the highest. Government? It was making the tax system changes that were the best data from 20% of the richest Icelanders. It added to this inseparable position, made up the position I was crossing, and added to the inequities. She dropped the hunting charges, dropped curses on those best off. During the last few years, to round up her journey, she cut off the middle step and further increased the inequities or reduced the balance of the tax system. It's already the highest. The minister of finance takes up office in January. This image that I have drawn up and have been drawing up throughout the reign of the last government is already the highest power. The secretary of finance and economics is seated in the chair introduces a new government. What are the priorities of a new government? Balance and vision. Two passwords, max. Governments. Balance and vision. Balanced about the inequities created here. I didn't hear a lot of politicians or senators and the highest. Counsellors attending the present non - independent government speak highly of this in the campaign that their main struggle was to protect the tax system of Bjarni son of Benediktsson. To the financial system that Bjarni Benediktsson, then the highest. Secretary of finance, had drawn up any amount of protection it required. But that is the case. That's what's happened. That's what's at the highest. The current financial minister has taken office. Developed the same policy, the same cutthroat and starving policy, the same injustice policy as the last government had. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: ▪ Trust must be built on the foundation of society, including the Generals and the courts. The legal process requires that representatives of different viewpoints have more time to express their views. The transport and access of the administration will be improved, targeted steps to open the state accounts and the information of public authorities to the public. The government will carry out all its tasks in honor of good government and transparent administration. - Except when it comes to a five-year national financial policy, it might have stumbled behind it. How this course has been under way has been handled well. How an excel-thinking of the date of contributions is more important than the political policy to run the country after the next five years. What are we discussing here? I have to admit, I had to read about it. Budget policy, financial plan, budget, new government laws. What is all this? I'm a simple man and not a mathematician like me for some reason often in my language. But I can read. What has been said in the opinion of the financial Council on this proposal for the resolution of financial policy for 2017/22022? It even stands in the margin, like this for us toss that we don't want to read through the entire text. This has been drawn out to us by the President's permission: There is a connection between financial policy, financial planning, and budget. Good. There's always a good context. A financial agenda should be developed to lay the foundation of a financial policy. A financial policy should be proposed as a basis for financial programmes. That's us in a circle. A financial strategy is fundamental to the budget and the financial plans of rural society. There is a very limited potential for reexamination of financial policy. Since it is a great commitment, then... it contains a great deal of commitment. That's what we're doing here tonight, okay? Senators. We're setting up the government budget for the next five years. Which affects the financial programme, which will be presented here and put forward for the next few days, affecting the budget of every year, which affects the financial resources of society. Which, too, are of such a cheerful spirit with all this, or what? Not quite. This was not quite accomplished by fulfilling the promises of less willingness. But I don't really feel like talking about it. There's been a lot of talk about it tonight and today. Councilmen who know much more about this than I do. I promised you I'd be in the big lines. That's what this is about. It's about the politics we want to see. This is about the box on our community structure for the next five years. That's no small thing. Well, here's what we've got. In particular, the senator in the wake of others, commending the minister of finance for sitting in the hall and even having so little time with members of the council. I don't agree with that. I don't think it's only a matter of time. The secretary of the budget is in charge of this discussion. In fact, I think it's the highest. Economic and financial ministers should be subject to all discussions involving the government's finances. Besides, I think there should be more ministers here than the highest. Financial and economic ministers. Here are the box on the community we would like to see over the next five years. I would have liked to see a hall full of happy people who would tell me which lines to put. How do we want to see this community? That's what we're drawing up here. And no matter what language we choose, which frame of the excel document we refer to, we can't escape the fact that here we have a starving policy when it comes to expenses, to the infrastructure, to all the beautiful and lofty things we have promised all our voters when we accidentally needed their votes. It is as if there were some magical moment in Iceland soon after the election, when even a government company who had served in the Ministry of finance for over three years found that the situation was quite different from what they had thought. But she's not that different. It's been talked about for a long time, how the state's income base was weakened. It's been discussed how, if you set aside the singles and special transactions in the state accounts, the business has been in irons. Why? Yes, because the last government really weakened the income base. I allow me to doubt that, in fact, a sustainable state population could be spoken of, so much of the income foundation had been weakened. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson quoted the reference to the Allied Union of Iceland. I'm going to allow myself to repeat it to some extent and even add, by permission of the President: ▪ The existing financial policy is essentially based on ASI's opinion, to increase the share of the state's business budget by using sectoral assets and resources for a faster payment rate than previously planned. By doing so, the Kingdom's interest rates and the result will be improved. However, behind that schedule there is a vague policy regarding the sale of state property and the level of uncertainty about the value of the assets. In recent years, government institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of financial matters and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. There is no plan thus to make better use of a position that the underprivileged budget will create for greater general well - being. It's a little bit of a key. It's not like the highest. Financial and economic ministers or what. management teams, even the highest, step here in a pont, and describe how to use the scope for the lower interest of the state fund will create an increase in general well - being. How much should the medical system be destroyed? The road system? What did we get into a transport program with a fixed campaign against a travel minister who immediately declared that there was no money? $1.2 billion. Should we be confident that this government will make priority measures, if this allows time to develop, an increase in general well - being? I'm going to let me be a fan of that trust. ASI says one of the main weaknesses of existing financial policy is that government income and expenditure cannot be assessed when it comes to the economy. That's what all of this is supposed to do. It's all going to fit in the economy. The secretor warns against it, all kinds of organizations, people put a question mark on it, but it doesn't change the way it does. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has asked a few questions here this evening, though I don't think he's going to give me the privilege of going against me, since he's not in the audience... [[...for the math thing.]] Yes, although at the beginning of my speech, I thought I had bought him a class and that I had bought at least one answer. V.E.G. To this day, a financial minister said something like that he wanted to maintain when there was tension in society, as well as to pay off debts and live in favor of future generations so that we could spend more on the fine things we agree on having to work. What are some of these? It's the highest. The minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, speaking of the Benedikt Jóhannesson, North Easteast? That he agrees with him on the fine issues that had to be won for elections? I don't know. I haven't heard the highest. Secretary of finance talk a lot about what needs to be built up, what has to be done to eliminate these alleged incomes and available space. He talks a lot about holding. Walked here. A senator earlier asked how much effort could be made. I would have wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance how much money the state can earn. How much tax dollars did you get? What kind of system is this? How much money can the state afford? Is it really so that when the highest level is cast into a stone? The former financier Bjarni Benediktsson runs out of the Ministry of Economics if perfect in the tax system? So that's how we're gonna keep it, thank you, goodbye? This is the highest. The current financial minister is suggesting with his financial policy and is not surprising, having had discussions about possible government development in December, that this is the attitude. I believe we are talking about financial policy for five years, drawing up the community we want to see. What income is the means to make space? Yes, there's a sale on state property. It's busted up and out of it. But has this been discussed? Has policy been discussed and made decisions, and people simply presented them in a clean manner? This is what we want to do. I haven't heard that. But at least it seems to be quite different between the rulers on what to do, how to do it, and what to do about it. In the beginning, I said that I had a fearful respect for mathematicians. But I have much more respect for people who come clean and straight, people who have political policies, have a vision of the community they want to see, is ready to speak for how to build up the society that doesn't hide behind a wordline, which clearly tells what it means for elections. I have less respect for people who say one thing about elections than another after them. In spite of this, even dates on how to make a donation can be held. That's not my business with politics. It's about how a community we want to see. And I don't want to see the community that's drawn up in this five-year financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u215	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech and would like to address him with a question similar to the one I have directed to two other members of the council, where this is the case. A member of the board of directors of transportation. I guess I got mixed up with the other one, it was a professional committee, and I mixed a road into it. [[Up front.]] Pregnancy will probably be a little bit of a coming financial plan, we don't know yet, we haven't seen it. But feel it. A senator somewhere during financial policy, who could help him see if any five - year plan is being carried out, as the financial policy should be? Another thing I wanted to include is: The time we have to deal with financial policy is talked about. Under any normal circumstances, financial policy would be put forward until the fall of spring elections. In turn, economic policies would not have to be approved until before a financial agenda would be adopted, even in the spring. We would have time to discuss economicism, to review it, and to do so. On the basis of the government law, there is now much time to discuss financial policies, but we should take more time than we are left out, apparently. I just wanted to point it out a little bit. Actually, we don't have as much time now because of the October election. Then I was going to ask you a little bit about the Fourier analysis. But I might not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u216	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Simply put: No, it's about transportation. I can't find them a place. Did I tell you I'm not a mathematician? At least I haven't heard it. When you talk to the highest. The secretary of transportation for the coming years is his solution to consider a private person's approach to financing, to consider a tax rise in the form of a road policy called taxes, but that is nothing more than that. Yes, it will be interesting to see what will be found in the budget that will soon be submitted, but according to the highest term. I must say that I am not optimistic. Soon, though, it becomes clear what it looks like. With regard to the time we have had to consider this subject, and when to make such a decision, I agree completely. Senator. Special circumstances are special. To me, the result is far more important than the process, because we are setting up the framework that will be referred to as soon as we discuss the financial program. When we start dealing with the budget in the fall, this financial policy will be referred to. And then the next autumn or autumn, after and after. [[The president calls.]] The only thing I'm happy with in this five-year plan is my name. I've always liked a five-year plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u217	A respectable president. Although there is no special mention in financial policy or government financial law on the subject of transport, education, or health matters, these are the inevitable lawsuits we deal with. The law on public financial matters then discusses the baseline values that must confirm the relevance of financial policy. It must be demonstrated that they are being carried out. Obviously, on the basis of my opinion, they must be proved to be relevant to the classes in which we generally deal with them in financial and financial programs, as well as in these key mails, education systems, health systems, transportation systems, and the like. So I find it interesting that there is nothing in financial policy that says that there will be significant structure in the coming years to offset the detoxification that has been going on in recent years. The amount of extra money to be paid, e.g. The health system, just so you can see when the financial programme comes up or down on the other issues, and you see the rise in health issues and say, "Yes, that's what was said in policy. That you can see the growth in transportation itself. Yes, there was talk of an increase, but I didn't know how much. It was said that transportation would be increased. It's just this sort of thing that I feel is missing, in general, a general line line line in financial policy, which is obviously what we do here every day, although it is not specifically spoken of in the laws on public finance. The key role of the Generalis is to treat public funds well. That's what we're here for. It's money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u218	A respectable president. I haven't been here before on the budget, except for the last payment where I was with a rough coat. A senator who has, I suppose, formerly been in financial assistance. So he may know her better than I did, even though I have been watching her from outside and even writing about her. But you're absolutely right, I agree. That's what a senator does. As for not seeing an increase in individual teams and the frameworks of lawsuits, I have now sometimes found myself suspicious when I have considered these matters and listened to officials, even the highest. Minister, talk about these matters that the reason not to find such an increase is that there are other ways to build up. You see, no matter where we move down, almost without exception, there is an open - up business all over the world. Private health care. It's called a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. Private business in the education system. The last one was called the international airport, wasn't it? I could sit down and make a pretty long list of the places and procedures that the management departments have talked about best looking at a management plan, that it's a private person's turn. When it comes to spending money, there is one way to be starving. But do they think these groups have the courage to vote in four years without having done anything in building? I don't think so. How, then, should the structure be financed? Yes, one way, bad as I think, is to go around public business and pick up the money elsewhere, which is to go into private business, personalization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u219	Madam President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator to 72 billion of growing incomes produced here in this country grew to the richest 10% of the population. This is inexplicably close to the figure that each year's state fund pays for interest costs. So I'd like to ask you why. The senator's lesson for us can be drawn from this. What do you think? A senator at the growing stage of the country in general? That's exactly what makes a great deal of government spending every year to these 10% of the country's population, as well as pension funds and other funds. It's changing. This is also about 10% of the total budget per year. I ask that in a particular context, in the context of the fact that the government's survival appears to be primarily a matter of maintenance of expenses that benefit the public but not a real support in the interest of the people who are paid to the rich. It is interesting, then, to consider in this context whether this economic policy could not be quite better if it was a much clearer analysis of the economic situation for the next five years, with the view of potentially looking to other factors than just the rest of them after each year, after paying for some necessities, and, yes, interest costs. What other factors might we consider, and in what ways should we try to put the matter to the fore?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u220	Hv. A senator asks if financial policies could improve if certain factors were taken into account. I think financialism could be better if I did. A senator went to a cottage for a weekend and finished it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u221	Don't you think it takes more time than that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u222	There are numbers. In the end, it's about a course like I just came in here. Yes, it is. A senator mentions. What I think is in this, like I was trying to get into my case, is this protection not to interfere with the tax system, not to use it for balance, e.g. when it comes to earning money as much as possible. A senator came in. That's just the way it should be done. I have the simple view that to build a just society, so I witness in fine shape, having to look to the whole community. You need to look forward to the ability of people to contribute. The drinking has become almost shameful today in many people's mouths. I feel that financialism gives all indications that it is drawn up with the best interests of those who have it in mind. It is not to be taken lightly in that they contribute more to the combination that is useful to those who do not have it quite as well. So, yes, I agree with the questions as well as the questions. A senator set me up and hoped I'd come in. Then he may come in on it in another of his opponents, and I've forgotten something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u223	Madam President. Yeah, I'm glad to hear it. A senator would agree with the questions, but it would have been nice to find answers to them too. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u224	You asked me so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u225	Yeah, it's a little meaningful questions. But this is about what I believe. A senator was referring. It is this standard technique that is used in privatization, cutting the money down completely to the bone, making things not working in such a way that people get angry and then saying that the right way to reduce anger and fix the system is pushing it into the hands of others. This is something we always see. I agree with the analysis. That's the case with a senator. What is missing in the discussion is the question of what should be done instead. I have asked similar questions for other reasons. Senators. Perhaps the question that would be reasonable to follow is here regarding the financial rules set out in this policy. There are three of them. They're rather simple. It's a demarcation, it's a debt rule and a fall in debt. My question may be, What other rules should be? How should we view things differently so that a better financial policy would benefit the people of the country rather than benefit only those few who benefit greatly from the financial wealth of the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u226	A respectable president. Well, we could establish the order of reasonableness, which provides a fair amount of money and money to a state fund and a fair service to the people. This may be something we can do on our vacation trip. In fact, I have access to a cottage, so it may not be an unrealistic dream. Hv. A senator came in to what I had mentioned in my language and put it well, i.e. to starve to cause bad service and then to be the only answer to personalization. I completely agree with that. Let's just consider the transport issues we've been discussing here. We are less than 40 years of average as a proportion of GDP we spend on transport, despite the fact that the government is staying with the increase now. Yet, this is below the average of all these edification years. I don't know how many times I listened to the top. The former financier here in a pita, somewhere at press conferences, watched him on television, read interviews with him in magazines, listened to him on the radio, and talked about how amazing his economic government would have been. It would have been so successful in directing the state funds, and it was all so good. Nevertheless, it was not a table to go to the essential structure that was clearly evident to be needed. Why wasn't it? I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has, to some extent, met the question on the head of this world - known hunger policy that goes on to reduce the service so that personalization will be increasing. [[The president calls.]] Now it has become so that either you will get roadtoll and you will pay to drive on the roads or you will not get a road.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u227	Madam President. I am both kind and obliged to discuss this matter here, though it is quite a long day. I may be able to give a second talk tomorrow in the morning. We are told that this is one of the most fundamental devices that will be in the hands of the Generals during this terms. Here, large talks are presented that this is so on the basis of government financial legislation that it is once and for all, the government's budget is being set aside until the next five years. Then there's nothing small. You'd think there would be any class here and ministers here on every chair and taking part in the discussion. It is virtually stated that the terms of an iron - borne concrete government are to be put aside for the next five years, and then nothing will be changed, just some technical work is to put it into a financial programme, and an even more insignificant budget will be made in due time. It's just a print on some part of the video game. Happily, though, this is not the case. First, a change of government can naturally be made, for it is to bring up a new financial program at the beginning of its career. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] If they are to be followed, there have been compelling reasons to turn this government away. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Because it's a ruined document. Second, and it is important that members of Congress remember this, it is simply that government laws on public finances do not change the legal rights here and the government is here. If it has been in the law of public finance that it's somehow different, that it's in the Board of Directors, that it's not a law, they don't pass the constitution. It is now the end of that speech. It's all bullshit. The power lies here, and the Council can change it as a sample, and it has to be done because this proposal is completely ruined. It's for many reasons. Iceland isn't just anywhere today. It's been nine years since the collapse. We're in the seventh year of economic growth. If not now, when should we build up in Iceland? You're going to add five years in slow motion, in constipation? Yeah, it's the right course on this table. It'll be 14 years short for Iceland to care for its infrastructure, build its welfare systems, park its roads, etc. In fact, in part because official progress was cut down to the point of collapse during the years. What are we going to do in Iceland's construction again? Because this slow, low, public investment rate has become a very dangerous country and the future in this country. It's got to be humanized about this. Walking on the inside doesn't work any more. The result of the development of rural society here is damage to the Icelandic welfare community. How do they run these years? How do they try to meet the goal of new financial rules? By drawing investments into nothing. The Union of Icelandic rural society tells us that it is going on the inside of our rural society. Investment is not infringement. They don't have enough to keep them going. They're shrinking. It's just walking on the other side, not even being maintained. Things in the state aren't much better. This is a debt, as serious as the one in the papers of the State. A huge and growing debt to the future, with no intention of coping with it? Economically, this is no doubt a much worse debt control than paying off the paper debt. The word "communication control" is a fine term in this study. What kind of debt control is to emphasize all the next five years on that is certainly good, paying off debts, promising that all the state's farms, in the form of irregular wages, should be paid in additional debt. I agree that irregular joints are not meant to go into business. You should not get into the habit of winning a lottery hit. But what's wrong with e.g. Do we take from selling property into investments? There's nothing irresponsible about it, nothing. That's why I don't give anything for the formulas here about that, if for example. In the years to come, the State will ever release some of its property in banks if it is irresponsible to build a road for it. No, I'm not going to sign it. The quality of the transport sector lately, of course, with a strong understanding of the level of health and education needs and in the welfare system, is the worst concern to me. It is so hopeless when we remember how long it has been starving the road system, how much traffic has gone up, the needs of tourism, it is completely incomprehensible that the government has been playing this group for the past four, five years. That's incomprehensible. Men have not even taken advantage of the marketd farms for what they should go to, i.e. To help build up the transport system. No, they haven't let them live by price. They wanted to leave more in the pockets of the people, said the predecessors of the present world. Secretary of finance. But who in general should pay for the roads? How is it fair to finance them? Is it not a decades - long meeting that traffic should be done on its own and that we put on special taxes in order to cross the roads and infrastructure that are then enjoyed by transportation? But then they don't. No, because the Claim, the desire to be a great man at Valhalla, claiming to have dropped taxes and left more in some pockets, you are overwhelming. It robs men of all understanding. It robs people of all practicality, and men go astray. There's a guy going off the road, and he's got a hole in his ass. It's totally gone wild. I ask again: When should we build in Iceland if not in the seventh year of economic growth, not after nine difficult years of collapse, when should we do so? In 1971 a blessed change of rulership took place, and what did people do? The program of building began. They brought out the landways, they bought trawlers, they built frozen houses, they built health care, and they set aside roads. What happened? It was springing in Iceland, and especially in the country. It began a period of building in the history of the country, where people are funded in the future and funded in the interior. This was the last period of proper structure that left the country for a long time. Much of the youngest houses in the country date back to the 1980's. There are many ways in which development has been reversed. There are these things we need to do again in Iceland, not float asleep to the next collapse or next crisis. Yet, I do not have the time to act as worthy and as related to the conflict of human government that has been taking place and are still doing. How is that handled? Is it coincidence that some of us have come to the place where we are now, that we are building a severe imbalance in the economy, that we cannot cope with the persecution on the crown, that we have completely screwed up keeping control and control of the growth of tourism, and that we are losing this thing out of hand? That's no coincidence. Men are far from making exactly the same economic failures as before a collapse. What did the report of the General Commission on the use of the terms of government money during the years prior to collapse? Yes, people rightly said: The scale increases between 2003 and 2,2008 were oil on the fire, making matters worse. What have people done now? Exactly the same. In a growing expansion of the economy, reducing taxes and mainly on the richest one was a priority for the right labor. The holding of the state's budget has decreased by 21⁄2.5% of gross domestic product, including this year according to the economic fluctuation of the corrected element. There are no quarters. It has its own influence, causing the Devil to scream and even use it. as an excuse for maintaining the hairs of dizziness. Although inflation is less than or below the limit of normal for three consecutive years, it is still running at one of the world's highest interest levels. There were expensive bargains, and something can shoot behind them. But almost everything else, it is just the cost of sacrifice that an Icelandic home and an Icelandic job live on. And look in the rearview mirror, which, of course, must always be the warning that there is a rearview mirror, you cry that we must have had such a high interest level in the country all this time. I don't see what it's been for as long as the country was in currency, the Sentillabana directed the intervention of the currency markets, and we brought in an inflation from Europe. Of course, there is no reason for these high interest rates. But they are factual, and they mean that we are in a situation where we are once again in a time of economic crisis that we are far too well acquainted with from long experience. What are we going to do if this is about to turn around? If oil prices start to rise and raw prices start to rise, and the introduction of goods becomes more expensive, which requires production and valuables in Iceland, I'm not talking about if the gang stops building up or even getting sick, how will men hold back from inflation with a government that relaxes government? This is likely to result in the Armada's feeling compelled to increase the growth. It may then draw back the funding that always finds its way, considering that Iceland's growth change is going on again, although the second bank thinks that they have invented a very fine amount of money to control them. What, though, will the foreign people do? They just go on other things. Buying into the Stock Hall. Find other ways to promote interest between Iceland and other countries. Of course, many things have to be handled in a practical way, but there must also be face - to - face with and find ways to create the space we need to create in order to rebuild the land. We can't live with this for many more years. It's absolutely useless. Maybe you thought you were at the highest. A government would have learned a lesson when a travel minister began to split his roads, and eventually, he was forced to place too little money in it. Don't people feel the atmosphere in society? Do they not sense the urgency that has become the result of the work of building up? Of course, it is not possible to do everything at once. There is sound evidence that a large increase in public investments would be necessary if we were to come to earth with caution. It is an economic hazard in the present situation, of course. Of course, there is one default one, and every dollar a person can drive must be financed, decommissioned in another area. Of course, more investments can be distributed in a reasonable way, such as the economy. By investments in the country, which is now not generally seen to be killed from the thawing to fit within the economy. It must be held responsible for the economy, and it needs to be done. That's what I'm talking about. Or is there someone in here who is happy to sail this way for another five years? Is that true? Is that a good message for you at college, in high school, on the road system, the health system? No, I'm sorry. It's five more years of the same thing. That's what's being offered here. Economic criteria for Iceland's delivery today have no need for it. It's not like that. State debt rates and government income opportunities are in good shape. The only thing missing is the willingness to make a living. I believe that the greatest frustration for the campaign and the result - apart from what they were, some groups got way too much, and even parted into a council that has very little to do - was that there is no harmony between words and actions. It stood out of everyone in the campaign that we had to go into the infrastructure, now that we had to build up. But was it all faked when the vote was done? Is that how they're gonna keep it for three and a half years, and then they're gonna give it in 2020 with a fat, rearbound transport plan? Is that how the management team is going to get through this? I don't think it'll be patience to wait for it. We can't. Either this government has to change to a significant extent on the emphasis of the current or it will be called down. The situation in society will cry out for it. I can't believe that in some parts of the country, people are going to be seen in some places with the performance they have on their backs now because people are totally locked on it. This is in addition to the rigid rules that are directed into the official financial law, and we considered many too rigid and therefore did not back up the matter, adding additional screws. It's as if there wasn't enough iron in the concrete. No. In addition to all the other financial conditions, there are roofs on the expenses of the state's budget up to 41.5% of the gross domestic product. Where does wisdom come from that one's belts and bracelets and shoulders need to be wrapped on all ends and chains, chains, and chains? Don't people trust themselves? What is the point of having this ridiculous roof, which, of course, is very unwise, when it is added to a narrow frame that makes it possible that the state's funds, on average, must be equal and left in the rest over a five - year period and must never go below the line except about 1.5%, etc.? Then there is little to do. Maybe that's how people want it, just remove everything called thought and consciousness from politics and economic management in the country, just put it on autopilot. First, you find the box, then you shut it down, put the concrete, iron in it, then it's done, and then it's the autopilot. Nothing done. Is that really smart? Do you think it will be successful? Is this how people want to run a human society? No, I don't think so. I don't think that's a good thing to do. We're well along on our way to making some old-fashioned mistakes. I'm sorry. All signs of danger are present. Of course, things are different, and things have been changed from those who were in the unconscious years prior to collapse. It would be better now, because there has been hardly another such folly on a bed, at least not in Western developed countries, as the consequences were known of that course. What is much better now is, for example, The proportion of debt is better. Happily, there has not yet been a broken smile of debt - filled consumers. That's good. But that does not mean that the economy and the balance are in order in the economy. No, it just means that, of course, it means that if a relapse comes, suffers, it won't be as painful for all the majority of the people as it is because of a less debt of employment. And that's good. But it doesn't say that things are okay even though these bases are so far at least They were stronger than they were before a collapse. We still need to be very careful and not get lost. I don't believe it until I see that human ambition is no more for the future than for me to finish this plan. If it does, it will be ruined. She won't keep and she won't stand. Then, Madam President, I believe it is premature to resolve this matter now. I want at least see the first national budget. Then perhaps some of the dissensions and analyses that the law assumes are there when we cross these policies, where the financial needs of the health system, education system, would be charted for the future, etc. [[The president calls.]] Such a suggestion that a long-term strategy should be provided for these policies. [[The president calls.]] Where is the most important item of the season in this poor little piece of paper, which is more than two leaves, nine pages? [[The president calls.]] This document is a complete scandal. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u228	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this lively speech. It was nice to see him with such good old rhythms. The only problem with this talk was that she is, in effect, being given the wrong motive. He's giving the talk on the financial plan, but I want to point it out. A senator assumes that it will not be submitted until Friday, then he can naturally deliver this speech again, and we will enjoy it as much as we did before. On the other hand, I would like to ask why. A senator spoke of it in a talk today that society had too much expansion and that it would be appropriate to give support: How would trouble. A senator grants this support, e.g. What is his share in the financial affairs, and how does he provide himself with debts in financial policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u229	Madam President. I think it's kind of an unfunny twist at the highest level. Minister. I've got it perfectly clear that this is the financial policy that every government should put in the beginning of a terms, it was mentioned in my speech. That's why I said we had to change the government so that she could bring up a new and better plan again. Then every year, the annual national budget will appear on April 1. I know that very well about public finance and the Supreme Court. A minister may remember that he is talking to one of his predecessors who has something to do with these matters. So I won't be knocked down with a twist like that, Madam President. How did I want to see the rest and hold? I've criticized the entire last term that the state is making a big mistake in getting out as much money as it really is. There should be 50 to 170 more in the state's income foundation, inside the state's spherical income base, this would be no problem. Then we might have more leftovers and put in investments and infrastructures without anyone slacking off on the government. [[The president calls.]] It's very simple. I believe I have sound reasons for my case, including... in my count of talks on this matter during my last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u230	Madam President. I hadn't forgotten. A senator is a former financial minister, and I have previously said that at that time I admired what he feared to make decisions in many controversial matters; some of them have proved to be wrong and other rights; but what was right in his lawsuit was that he made decisions, he feared to make decisions when the whole society was very uncertain. Now, however, we are controlling it and trying to control it on quieter waters. I agree with what. A senator that it is very important to have less debt, less personal debt, less corporate debt. I also say less debt from a state and from a country. That is the basis for reducing growth and will be useful to all members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u231	Madam President. I'm sure it's going to happen at the latest. Secretary of finance that he makes some decisions, hopefully he will. I agree with that, it's very important that politicians can make decisions, they don't just lie about somehow and nothing's gonna happen to them. Making decisions allows for the danger of not necessarily all of them to be right or to right, in the sense that some things may prove to be better than others. It's just the walk of the parts. Of course, we rejoice that there are no different circumstances and that were here for the first years of a crash, better now. Hopefully, the present generation of Icelandic politicians will have several more, never having experienced similar things. I think it's at least... It is the very best thing to put it into human hands once in a lifetime, to go through what happened then. We are glad to be in a calmer environment discussing these things. That doesn't change the fact that we have to consider where Iceland is going after that long difficult time. [[The president calls.]] It may be my primary critical factor that I feel that people are totally asleep to that effect. [[The president calls.]] It's just some excel-thinking that it's all important to fix debt. [[The president calls.]] Yeah, yeah, it's important. But they also need to build up in Iceland, U.S.A. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u232	Madam President. I take my whole mind under this big fire. Senator. Unless, in that sense, I may be forced to ask, " Is it true that the cause is really lying with the Council? ' The fact is, with an approved law on government finance, it was decided that now the General didn't have any direct access to decisions on how money is spent, except in small pots, but rather to leave it to a minister or to the Justice Department's staff to set aside items according to suitability. This means the money has been taken out of the political bitch. I just want to ask you if this systematic emptiness is something we should be invited to. There's a lot of things you could do better than I'd like to ask. A senator: Are we not simply obliged to recover the capital of the Allegis from the clutches of this Austrian analism, which has ruled about all over the country's economy from its acceptance of these laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u233	Madam President. Now it may be that the public financial law is part of a gray area to the Constitution. That's right. But then, humans have simply made the mistake of going too far. Because it is quite clear that the Council does not have the authority to surrender to financial resources. The General does not have the authority to surrender his taxation authority - except to change the constitution first. That's it. In effect, the Council can even become aware, to the extent that they feel they have moved to the Commission to exchange roles for the financial resources they have decided, to take them back at any time. We talked about this in a little bit about handling budgets this December. I believe that if, for example, a financial committee considers its direct instructions to the Commission, no matter what the details of the accompanying documents, it is up to them. [[The president calls.]] It must be that way. The Constitution will fit that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u234	Madam President. Yeah, I totally agree with that. These Oriental economic theories, some of which had difficulty. Councilmen have tamed themselves, taken the very course of cold, systematic thinking that aims to create this mechanism of action. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of in his speech. But in what ways could we do this? Could we regain this power to the Council, e.g. by suggesting that these laws be canceled? Would there be some neat way to achieve the good influence of the law - something that is some - without the loss of that authority as it has? We seem to be in the system of trusting anonymous officials in all decisions and getting rid of anything potentially useful to the public. I don't think that's a very good approach to the government of the country. I think it's very bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u235	Madam President. Of course, the General will only change these laws if that is the case. In fact, I understand that the U.S. Marshal of Parliamentis has provided tips on matters considered on a administrative and surveillance committee and may even already have to make some adjustments. As I say, I believe the Constitution is always a defense to the extent that we choose, to take it into our hands something that according to the general methodology should be the right to counsel. We can, and then we'll just do it. Then we'll just put it in the Committee on the Board of Directors that it's like this. Or by law. But I would like to state that I would not be misunderstood, that I am not a advocate of irresponsibility or inadequacy, and that financial laws should be given to what is such and queer every year. I'm a developer, a man's plan ahead, and he's got discipline. But also, I don't want to pay off the interests of the Generals and the government's affairs. [[The president calls.]] It is infinitely precious for society to be able to use them specifically to treat them through crisis as quietly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u236	A respectable president. I'd like to set up a special stage. Suppose, for example, that bank sales indicated that banks would be sold or sold at least by interest of interest. It would be in a way contrary to financial policy itself because of the law on monotonous wealth and how to handle it. I wondered where to get money for financing infrastructure. On the other hand, if we think we could use all the sales on the banks to pay off debts and long - term commitments and we could get to the place it would give us, 450 billion that are in the banks into the long - term debt and subsidies, we would be in a very good position. I might be able to sign it as a policy. But I don't know if this policy goes that way. [[The president calls.]] I was just trying to figure out if this is the possible environment we're reading from this course without saying it directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u237	Madam President. Again to prevent misunderstandings, I am no special champion of a bank sale. I just made the impression that there's a big difference between irregular joints, monotonous incomes, such as stability contributions, or temporary high - interest payments from banks, and the other, if the state changes its ownership. Why is there a difference in property between banks and good roads, airports, or bridges? They are property, property, and property of the State. Then we've just moved them from one form to another. I'd like to have a distinction between this and the policy under which it is, that everything the state releases is in debt. And does it have to go down below 30%? That's enough, isn't it? And if it weren't for this high interest level in Iceland, there wouldn't be any reason to go so fast into subsidies. None. There's certainly evidence that we are paying high interest here. But no other nation living under a more favorable interest would think of a special priority to take your official debts all the way down to 30% in a few years. [[The president calls.]] That wouldn't be a lot of news.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u238	A respectable president. If this is the policy, we should go to the bank store and use all it to pay, because it's the sum of cash, pay down debt and long-term commitments, we should just be honest with us that we're sacrificing infrastructure for a while to get to the place where we have no debt and no long-term commitments, which would be extremely good. But that's not the vote word. There is no election authorized to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-28-49.u239	Madam President. Yeah, I totally agree. That would be the most honorable thing to say. And the most honorable thing would have been to say before elections. Just say for elections: I'm sorry, there's nothing to be done about inside, roads, and anything like that for the next five years because we're going to pay off debt so quickly. It would have been dignified, and it could have been respected if men had so rode around the provinces and said: "Five more years, unfortunately. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Five more lean years. Come on, dress us. It wasn't like that. I don't remember. And not even the highest. The current financial and economic minister thus spoke in the Northeast campaign. And I'm not saying at all that he was the most irresponsible member of that group. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
