ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u1	A respectable president. I'll come up here in the speech chair for the last time. It has been a very momentous time, in many respects a difficult time since I sat at the General Assembly in November 2008, in the middle of a collapse, nearly nine years ago. But in many respects, it has also been a fun time for me. I've met a lot of good people, all of you sitting here with me. We've been through this. We have often disagreed, but so many more times we agreed. It feels good, I want you to remember, to decide to stop. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u2	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u3	I wish you good luck in the election. There are three of us, I think, who have decided not to allow us to continue. I'd like to encourage the rest of you to celebrate the new council. As for the campaign, I wish that it would become a subject, that it will be good, material, and that you may be back, with full force, into the council and continue to work well for our community. This job isn't always well spoken of, but I'll never be among them. This is especially remarkable and important work. We're creating the guidelines for our community. But there may be one thing I'd like to say in the end, that's something I think I've learned at least and I haven't been easy to learn; that while we're setting rules for everyone else in the community, it's so important to start with ourselves, that each and every one of us wonder what he can do differently. That is exactly how it is best to communicate a message to the community in general by setting a pattern. It's not easy. We make mistakes. We're human. But that's why we're also the key to being human beings at the Allied Council of Iceland. Thank you very much. I appreciate the President's cooperation. In the last part of my talk, I'm going to thank the staff of Generalis, who makes this workplace as useful as a witness, who is invaluable in supporting us through all the things that are often going on each day. Thank you very much. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u4	A respectable president. I preached in this discussion about the President's policy discussion a few days ago in broad agreement with all the members of the council who sit at a meeting about not merely a review of foreigners but, in effect, a follow-up of the laws that are currently valid and were approved in a crosspolitan solidarity at the last assembly. I believe the single bid for this field will be proclaimed after the end of the election. I can claim to give me a chance to do that job I will participate in it as well as the Independence Party, of course. However, the legislation discussed here has nothing to do with the general revision that may need to be requested by that law. A respectable president. The most inhumane way to change foreigners is actually the one that has gone out here where it is confirmed that the trustees will have their destiny under the control of the government at any given time. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Many prostitutes are now fleeing from it. I'll repeat what I've said before, and I believe that there will be a person in mind that there will be a future form of cross-cutting for the development and progress of the alien resident as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u5	It starts well with you guys, Independence...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u6	Madam President. How can one life be found out that there is no need? V.E.G. A minister said that she was going to offer a conversation with all classes of foreigners. She did not, however, when she presented the file. A week later, she did so in the dough. Surely we make that way because it is important to correct these laws and make them general so that we show that we are a nation of people. But every child counts. I'm happy to accept this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u7	Madam President. When laws that concern people in a particularly delicate position, children, bring about a sense of justice for so many, it is a reason to listen. When the UNICEF and the Red Cross ask us to listen, there is reason to listen, listen, and wonder whether we are fulfilling laws that should be based on humanitarianity in the way we should do so that they fulfill the duties of the United Nations Children's Convention. You see, there is reason to listen and ask. That is the conclusion that six of the seven representatives of the General Assembly found out that there was a reason to listen. I wondered if representatives of the class who do not choose to support this change should not listen. I say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u8	A respectable president. Here we discuss a very sensitive group of subjects that affect people and especially children who are in a weak position. It's time to be careful. So it is very difficult to go through this and know how you can be of help to the children as well as most of them. That's what we're all going to do. It was in the spirit that we created the legislation that we agreed on here at our last council in cooperation. That legislation is interpreted into Iceland. The Daffle Protocol is treated with beds in Iceland. The work of this case has been done. The work also made it clear that there is much to be done in the legislation, especially in the treatment of the children and in the way we secure the implementation of the European Convention. Let's get in this together. But what bothers me about this is especially two things, that in the laws that are discussed here, there is not an equality. [[The president calls.]] If a rumor goes wrong, it can put children in a particularly sick position. [[The president calls.]] I can't support that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u9	Madam President. Justice was given to win tonight on this vote table, something that I find to be rare at times. This time it does. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice here suggests that it is inhumane that we provide shelter for 80 children because it may create some kind of justice against governments. I'd like to state that the situation today is that the ultimate legal guarantee applies to refugees in Iceland. People don't know what their rights are. Finally, I would like to make it known that although it is respectable of the highest order. A minister intended to have a consultation on the affairs of foreigners. This discussion took place. The Independence Party disagreed. But the discussion took place between all groups here at the council. This does not change that this was a consultation, although the Independence Party decided not to be part of it this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u10	Honorable generals. This brief assembly is now over. Indeed, events have developed in ways that we did not expect at the beginning of this assembly 15 days ago. This will be in the history books among the most permanent legislatures, but not the shortest. I've been working this summer, and the rest of this council, and I'd like to thank you for that. I also thank the senators and the staff for their cooperation. It is reported that four senators have decided not to allow themselves in the coming election. All of them are women. That's very thought - provoking. Experience shows that in general women spend less time at the Council than men. The Harðardóttir Hardydó, former social and housing minister, is now a member of Congress in less than nine years and of that, of course, almost four years in the Ministerial Class. Jónsdóttir Jónsdottir, who served in confidence at the General Assembly as chairman of the Council of Civilism, Motion, and Pirata, after more than eight years of Congress. Then Elsa Lára Arnardóttir and Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir's daughter reported that they do not seek re-election. Elsa Lára has been a member of the General Assembly for over four years, and Theodóra served at the General Assembly after the election at the end of October last year. On this occasion, I want to thank all these members of the Parliament for their work and wish them all the best in the future. Our future that allows us to be re-elected is now in the hands of voters. They all came back, says the song. It may not be that way in our case. It's up to the dressers to choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u11	A respectable president. I would like to thank for the cooperation of this historic council. The 147th Council will be remembered for a long time, short, unusual, and put considerable pressure on the staff of the Generals, who deserve special thanks from us members of Congress. They've worked hard over the past few days, taking care of councilmen, meetings, short and long, answering questions, simple and complex, phone calls and conversations, late and early conversations, wrestling with texts, committees, reports, conferences, programs, registrations, writing talks, miscommunications, caring for members of our day, members of Congress, some of whom have new jobs and others who intend to volunteer. On behalf of all of us: Thank you very much. And I'd like to thank the highest. President Unnur Brá, daughter of Konráðsdóttir, for poise, perseverance, and flexibility in these unusual times. It is especially well received, as the president of all of us, and deserves our gratitude for it. Thanks, too, for being the president who wants to break a magazine, the president who wants to bring the office to modern times, to increase understanding and discussion in society of everything, about the role and nature of our old, important and valuable Council. You see, the general council deserves our love for it, that we are involved with it with respect, but also with our vitality and passion, which our daily discussions and conflicts of vision and the development of our society deserve. President. We are now meeting voters who are authorized by a new council for elections. Let us see if we can handle it during our daily activities. During the weeks that lie ahead, let us show ourselves, one another, and the other. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u12	Mr. President thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-27-8.u13	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the General Assembly of 147, of September 26, 2017, or later if necessary. To Reykjavík, September 26, 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Bjarni Benediktsson. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the General Assembly, I declare that the Council is postponed to the 147th legis. A respectable president. General elections will be held on October 28, the second, in line with the Presidential Letter for a breach and a general campaign to the Council, published on September 18 of the past. Congressants and classes are now entering a second campaign in less than a year's time. I would like to use this opportunity to thank you all as well as the members of the Parliament for the cooperation of the short term period that will soon end. As we have seen here tonight, one of the most important and challenging challenges of the political parties is to establish a series of railroads in the coming elections to stabilise the government of the country. I certainly hope that our prosperity will result in good for us in that environment, land, and nation.
