ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u1	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. Witchest. "Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and 4th. South, a Smári Mccarthy, that they're not going to be able to do any political work in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly, who was assigned to Bjarni Jónsson and Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir. The letter Bjarni Jónsson and Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but they have not taken their place before in the Council, so it is to be signed as king to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u2	Bjarni Jónsson and Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly. Borist has a letter from the 3rd. That's the north side. That he won't be able to do Congress soon. So today, at General 1st, a deputy on the left of the movement is on the list of green bids, Björn Valur Gíslason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u3	There have been six letters from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs requesting deadlines to provide a written answer for the application of the letter. 325, on the arrival rate for flight passengers, from Oddný G. Hardydot; request for cover. 343, for the resource use of electronic energy companies, from Oddsja Oddný Harðardóttir; requested robotics. Thirty-three, on the internal and emancipation of hotels and dormitorys, from Yddny G. Harðardóttir; inquiries on deck. 231, for Landactivation, from Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir; for a spell inquiry. 339, a tax study based on purchased data, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and a petition on deck. 338, for the highest and lowest wage in the kingdom, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 252 on telecommunications funds, fiber - optics status, etc., from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 219, for saving supplies for children with disability, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and for threshing. 238, on health care provided by foreign tourists, from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u4	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Education and Culture, Tourism, Industrial and Neony Ministers, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u5	Madam President. It was reported yesterday that foreign hedge funds paid off a share in Arion's bank from the Council of Buy. It has been estimated that no object exceeds 9.9%, but the object has to be 10% to be considered an active object. There are a number of rules that the UN must consider the relevant owner for possessing and running business banks. It is thus likely not by chance that the object of possession depends on this number, 99.99%. They are also noted in view of the fact that in contracts, the object, his high value, was compared to a crown. The price now appears to be around 0.8 and even only below, even 0.79. But if the State is compared to 0.8, it can step in and take advantage of its premium. According to a current nuclear story, they believe this gang is 0.79, but will be higher if the people take advantage of additional options. Third, there is nothing for the final owners. What I want to ask the highest. First of all, does a minister feel that it is proper to evaluate the members of a group who are buying an item of up to 30%, which seems to be working together? Is it not proper to share their qualifications despite the fact that there is no share over 10%? Has the Ministry of Economics gone over the course of the situation? Is it above 0.8, so that the State could take advantage of its premarital rights? [[The president calls.]] What will a minister do to inform them of the ultimate possession of the previously purchased items?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I agree that the figure is very unlikely to be random. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator that it is very important to know in such cases which are the final owners, i.e. Who has these funds? Now is the time to inform us that it is not the Ministry of finance that values the ability of people to handle property. Rather, it is the SEC that does so. The F.O.P. will follow the rules. While the general rule is that according to 10% of ownership, the UN can, if holding property, e.g. Distribution, watching people who have a significant ownership or share of property that is likely to be dominant, although 10% has not been reached. I think it's very important that we review it, and it's over in accordance with the rules. I don't know that these parties are linked in the sense of any kind of law, I understand that these are different funds. The Ministry of finance has information about walking in this business is over 0.8, so I don't think it's a reason to question that information. There have been many reports that it is my opinion to inform the final owners of the stock.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u7	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He's here to say that according to the Ministry's information, 0.8 has gone by. Can he inform the General of the march? It is important that the information is available. Second of all, it is said in the highest language. Minister that the SEC has the right to evaluate properly, although the 10% target is not reached. They may not be associated with parties, but there is a possibility that they will share in this purchase at the same time. Is it not called upon to consider the role of these individuals in the SEC? And then I come to the last thing that concerns the final owners. This is an Icelandic business bank, which has a lot to do with commercial life, and much less the Icelandic public, and it does a lot of public mortgages, for example, huge sums. [[The president calls.]] It is absolutely princely concern and important for public interest, at the highest level. A minister has now spoken a great deal, that final possession will be enlightened. How's the top? Minister to make sure it's done? [[The president calls.]] He says he wants to see it enlightened. How will a minister arrange for it to be enlightened?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u8	Madam President. According to the information I've been through, it's already been to 0.8. It seems to me, however, that the figures published are very close to 0.8, though over that number. Once again, I stress that it's the F.S.S.S. Department that thinks it's an appropriate way of dealing with property, but I think it's very important, and I've contacted the head of the FDA that it will be informed who are the owners of these things and the final owners, and it's going to happen. I think it's totally unacceptable for Icelanders not to know who's standing right behind that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to go on the same way. This weekend it was reported that Goldman Sachs and three other hedge funds bought nearly 30% of the Arion Bank for $40 billion as well as that the investment team was getting premiums at 21.9% a share in Arion Bank. There are big news, and for the first time, a part of a bank in Iceland is sold to foreign parties in this way. In view of this report, I would like to ask the highest question. Minister if there is any intention of selling the property of the state, of the country's property, of Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands. Are they there? Is there a measure or preparation in this regard? And then I'd also like to ask: Is there any point in the persistent rumor that has been about not selling Iceland banks to foreign citizens? Is there any point in that? I also need to know if a minister thinks it's wise to engage in personal interest on national requests right now. Of course, one of the things we should consider is the review of the General Commission on how to cope and the cause of the collapse of the bank. It made it very clear that too many banks were sold in way too soon, which made it impossible for us to get the best possible price for our banks, not the most qualified managers to buy the banks, the most qualified owners. The one standing here asks herself, " Are we sailing back into 2007? ' Are we going to sell three banks on a single board during this terms? Will this be a terms of privateization and actually a restoration of the crash?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u10	Madam President. I will surely hope that there will not be a restoration of the collapse as well as the wind. A senator put it so poeticly. I completely agree that for this, there are fine reasons to guard against them and that it was not right for the privatization of banks in its time. In this sermon, I have declared that I think we should take it slow. I think we're supposed to handle this as far as possible so that we won't be made aware of the mistakes that occurred in 2003 and 2004 when men were privatizing banks. There are no special plans for selling state property in Iceland and U.S. Bank. I don't know that any buyers have announced their interest in it, and the state has done nothing to offer these items for sale. The answer is that there are no special plans for it at this time, and I have said that it would be better and more successful for the nation to be sold slowly. If it takes a long time, if it takes one terms or two, we should do it rather than pick something we come to regret later. I just can't say anything about selling in Iceland. I haven't heard him, and he's not come from me, and I should know if people were selling him. I think it was very important, as I told you before, that we tried. I think everybody's down. I agree with the members of the council that this time we're going to be careful when the government's share is sold in the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u11	A respectable president. Yes, I can say we're going to be careful. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says we should take one term or even two. I think we should think further ahead. We're supposed to think it all together. Is the State to share in the banks? There is also one question. But what I would like to focus on is the best. The minister of finance is how he intends to face the possibility of personalization. How should we be careful this time? The last thing that happened was that no law or moral code was actually being followed. All the rules were broken that made us end up where we ended up. What's going to happen? The secretary of finance to do, come to sell a stock in Iceland or the Bank of Lands, to ensure that men are carefully prepared and that the result is well established?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u12	Madam President. That's a very good question. How do you sell things in the banks? The only reason that the last failure was because large quantities of banks were searched for, the dominant part of the two banks. It was not a successful course. I've repeatedly declared that I believe that the most successful possession of banks is being distributed. I don't think there's one person who would take the dominant share in banks. Of course, this has to happen in a career that everyone has a chance to come to. I think it would be nice not to sell the banks in too much things, but, of course, it has to depend on the circumstances at any given time, both in the community and here in the nation's representative. I agree that this is a national property we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u13	A respectable president. The man standing here asked the highest question. Secretary of finance recently on contracts with the hedge fund for decommissionment. The minister's reply must be said to be peculiar, since he declared that no contracts had taken place, and two days later the agreements for the purchase of the hedge funds were available on their reserves. Today, we are in only another location. Again there are questions about how the government has been in the hedge fund that is buying in Arazon's bank. It was spoken to one of the officers who are buying, and he realized that it is uncomfortable for humans to find hedge funds to own banks in Iceland. That's why he, by permission of the president, says in the News magazine: We have tried to play such a role in this process, especially with governments and surveillance agencies, so that these purchases can be achieved. So I ask: What relationship did the buyers have with the government, finance minister, and/or Secret Bank, in the pursuit of the purchase? Do buyers at some point become familiar with their plans to buy things at Arion Bank? It can also be asked: Have the highest. The secretary of finance or his employees met this hedge fund to discuss these parties' purchases at the Arion Bank? Is the minister of finance ready to bring in meetings from the New York Summit with information about who attended that meeting, and what was discussed? The prime minister and secretary of finance have striven to praise this, called it a turning point, and said that this is an expression of strength in the nation's economy. Sadly, most of the time conventions seem to involve a country - from the bank to foreign owners - that is why the domestic interest payments are going to flow there. So it is interesting to add questions as to whether the sales of 30% of Arion's bank are in harmony with government policy. [[The president calls.]] And will foreign funds become as welcome investors when it comes to selling state funds? Will it also be a sign of strength and a milestone?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u14	Madam President. To answer that question, ask why. Senator I've had no dealings with these buyers. I don't know that any of these buyers had dealings with the financial personnel. It's true to remind you that it's not the state selling these things, it's Copenhagen that's selling these things. I remember that name, i.e. It's the coven of Copenhagen that's selling things. When the stability agreements were made with this scrap shop last year, it was suggested that they be allowed to sell things according to specific rules. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. A member of the state then agreed to such rules for his own. Hv. A senator also asks about the meeting in New York. Well, that's what he's done because he's already referred to this meeting as a secret find, at least. A senator now knew of that meeting in advance and who would sit him on behalf of Iceland, but I can well inform it here. There was Benedikt Árnason from the Ministry of Presidency Guðmundur Árnason from the Ministry of finance and Jón Sigurgeirsson from the Secret Bank. The last thing I could say was that at that meeting, no contracts were passed, and I promised to inform them immediately if anything did happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to add a few questions to the highest level. Minister. Is it his opinion that the purchase of foreign hedge funds is designed to increase the religion of the public in Iceland on the bank system? Tells you the highest. Secretary of the budget that this is the possession of Arion's bank property? In view of the above words of the minister: Does a minister believe that this sale is a careful tool? Is this a problem? I want to reiterate the question I asked earlier: Will foreign funds become as welcome investors when it comes to selling state banks? Will it also be a sign of strength and a milestone? I have to declare here, Madam President, that it is very difficult to reach a different conclusion in view of everything that has happened with a company who wants to invest in Iceland, but that buyers have gone out of the government's blessing before buying. [[The president calls.]] No one buys banks in Iceland or abroad without consulting with the authorities. [[The president calls.]] It seems from the minister's reply that this is in line with the government's so - called mastery policies. [[The president calls.]] Will the minister respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u16	Madam President. I'd like to first answer that question about my workmen at the moment. Of course, a senator knows very well that there is a society in which men respect agreements and the government as a matter of course. A senator in his day made a deal on how to manage these shares, so it is done. But I think it's true that there is a reason to consider who the final owners are. Is everyone who owns a hedge fund bad owners? Or could it be that some people with a hedge fund are just very respectable owners whom we would very much like to have as owners of Icelandic banks? I believe, however, that when other things belonging to the State are to be sold, there will be other tactics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The funds will not be placed in the front order, as was done this time under the Supreme Leader. former government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u17	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister. On Saturday morning's morning program, Mikael Torfason's episode of poverty can be recommended on the radio. Sadly, there is no entertainment program. Rather, it presents the close reality of this prosperous island of ours, where economic growth is at its most historical level and the main problems appear in the ever stronger crown and overheating of the economy. Of course, the point of light is to experience amazing inadequacy and failure of parental love for their children. The program brings up daily breakes from the lives and circumstances of ordinary people, individuals and families who struggle to reduce their life on all too low wages for a predatory and unstable housing market, similar pictures of ordinary people who have to decide whether to pay bills, grant their children the opportunity for leisure or themselves necessary health care, in these cases called mental drugs and dentists. The consequences of poverty are known to all of us, insecurity, inefficiency, social excommunication, shortness of time, and at worst of jam. Madam President. This is disgusting. In this room, no group can declare themselves innocent. Apart from the national embarrassment, the land that is rich let this injustice continue. How can we possibly call this stability? We're failing tens of thousands of Icelanders and young people who are going to be a burden here in the community in the next few years. The question is, What will the government take to cope with poverty during this lifetime? I'm going to the top. Ministers with decisive action to attack poverty? So, then, do we have a chance of going into a tax system change and getting equal income groups? Increase capital taxes, improve step taxes, pick up high income taxes, or fiscal taxes? In this way, we can avoid choosing between buying food, giving our children leisure time, or going to a doctor of our own. [[The president calls.]] Is Mr. Minister in agreement with these means?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u18	Madam President. I agree with that. A senator said that it is tragic to know the plight of many in our society. At the same time, I agree with the senator that it is not possible to point to someone or one government and say that it alone has failed. This problem has been a long time. It's been going on. As a community, we must try to intervene by whatever means we can. We have a government like this. has been taking action regarding the housing issues that have been pointed out to be a problem not only for the poorest people but also for many who are entering the housing market for the first time, young people, students, and others. On the other hand, I think the leadings are leading a bit. A senator noted, adding various types of taxes, high income taxes, raising various taxes, not causing poverty to be eliminated. That, however, would change the government's tax system. I think it's better that people have their money as much as possible. Of course, we must have enough tax returns so that we can carry the welfare community that we all agree should be in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u19	Madam President. The question is about the nature of the tax system. Looks the best. A minister is supposed to be a classic right man, that there's only a income raiser here, or should we use it for a balance of income? I want the highest. The minister will answer me, Is there any way that I mentioned before? Turbine income tax, high income tax, money tax, and progressive capital tax? The answer to that, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u20	Madam President. I think we can talk about a different tax system here. I don't know. A senator, e.g. to the suggestions of a meeting field that refers to a tax of a different kind but that is now a personal discount, e.g. variable. As a result, those with the lowest income would have the highest character discount and then go down to the end of all the highest incomes. I think it's well worth watching a income tax change like that. I think we should also look at other suggestions in this approach. I think it would be very successful to do that, and I will have it started in the FEC shortly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u21	President. In the same way that freedom of expression can be said to have few things in this country. This freedom is not only precious to the individual in the community but also a protection of the fourth power in order to hold a body of Congress accountable. It lays the basis for a greater variety of cultures, promoting transparency and justice in society. The fifth per capita trusts the Allied Council of Iceland and confidence in the administrations. That's why you get stunned by comments from the highest. Minister of Justice on this last sentence in Iceland at the European Court of Human Rights in freedom of expression. Asked if this is embarrassing, it answers to the highest level. Minister, with permission of presidents: No, no, I wouldn't say that. This, of course, indicates that there is something vague about these issues that need to be clarified. It's the highest. Ministers really mean it with their comments? The above mentioned recommendations are not likely to increase confidence at the Council. V.E.G. The minister expresses himself ready to consider the matter, which so far has meant doing nothing at all. Iceland has now been sentenced to a violation of free media for the fifth time in a few years. At the same time, the chairman of the jury points out that modern problems will be a general penalties instead of staying in the past and denying the obvious evolution of society and democracy in Iceland. We know that the breakdown of freedom of expression is a major weapon of nationalism and Fascistism. We are to have the best law of freedom of expression in the world, and the distribution must be reassuring and reasonable. In view of the above claims, the highest. I ask a minister of justice, " What does she see as a normal way of handling this matter? ' Has the highest. Don't Ministers worry that, like the European Court of Human Rights, there is a threat to democracy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this matter to the attention of the past weekend, i.e. recent judgment by the European Court of Human Rights and freedom of expression. Hv. A senator may add another meaning to the words quoted to me that I did not view the matter as embarrassing. I think it's very important that men always have every opportunity to plead their case under courts. It should be considered as nothing embarrassing to lose a court case, in these cases embarrassing to the state, as is the case with the eaters who did not get all their demands, and who did not agree to all their demands on the matter. Nor is it embarrassing for them in these matters, i.e. These five cases discussed by the Court of Human Rights and the matter of freedom of expression. However, the issues discussed by the Court of Human Rights are not worth much more than if you reexamine them in time. The Ministry had considered these matters before the decision was passed and sent a report to the European Parliament on operations here. At the time of the European Council report, it was then assessed that there was no basis for any further adjustment than had already been made. I call attention to changes in law, e.g. on print rights and change of media law. Some legal adjustments have been made to address the very viewpoints that have been wooded and toyed with the Court of Rights, including the Court of Human Rights. on the responsibility of editors and people who write news. It is not excluded that humans would want to make further adjustments, e.g. Just cancel with all the legislation on the subject of delinquency. Of course, that's just the point of view. It would be interesting to hear the council's viewpoint, that is, the lawgiver has all this to say. [[The president calls.]] Of course, judges in general judge only by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u23	I don't have any information about the next step at the highest level. Secretary says here. I like to hear that it is, at least, when it comes to courts, ideas of how to deal with prejudices, etc. but the justice system in itself, as this judgment stressed, is not just about - and I agree with the highest degree. Minister - that being able to go in this process is important. What this is about is that when judging like this comes up, it is a violation of freedom of expression, making such a judgment, making the environment around the public, and the fourth cause impaired. I don't think there's one sentence you can take here and one sentence there and say it as high as you can. One minister says that if you go deeper into each case here, there's a lot to consider. But as a whole, it's the highest. A minister of this natural?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u24	A respectable president. All I can say is, hopefully a minister of judicial matters at any given time is not unusual about being brought before the court. But as for the next step in this matter, I can here mention that I would actually send before this judgment was given a letter to the court that was tore up and remind of prior judgments that had fallen into these cases. I've proposed to see if there's any basis for this in the courts itself to consider performing on a decision-making procedure, including by adding more support for judgment. Let us not forget that in this latest judgment of the European Court of Human Rights it was not found in itself that the legislation or the restoration under the judgment was corrected. Rather, it was found that the Supreme Court's judgment had not been sufficiently convincing in the limitations of the sentence. It may also be that the lawgiver wants to restore the process by further specifying in which the freedom of expression can be limited, so to speak, a person's mind on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u25	V.E.G. Minister. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the environment for participating in this discussion and considering the matter. As we have seen, we are talking here about marine and coastal areas. As a result of the increased use of marine and coastal sectors, the situation has become quite urgent. In the face of complex solutions, many questions remain when it comes to the use of this resource and the organization. The focus of this discussion is the response of various local governments to the subject of bill bridges and questions raised. It has some background that is natural for such an extensive project. In 2011, the then minister of the marine eco-efficiency and agriculture made an assessment of the existing laws and regulations on implementation and activities with the coasts of the country and in the economic legal history. With published national planning policies, reports on marine and coastal systems status have been developed. There has been an important work on the definition and registration of resources. All that work brings us closer to the goal of getting things right. But the whole conversation is good, and it is important that we be informed about the situation and the possible progress. With a bill on marine and coastal planning, there is a new step where there is no legislation on planning in these areas. The wide variety of uses based on overall vision, ecosystem approach, nature protection and sustainable development are emphasized. That's good. It is then suggested that the minister of local councils with representatives of the council, adjacent rural partners and Icelandic rural relationships, and that the Council is responsible for the construction of the coastal zone in the surrounding coastal areas. An organization is intended for a specific role in the implementation of the law, including Caring for the development of a coastal zone strategist at the same time as a regional level. These questions have raised questions as to whether it is not an unnecessary complication. Is it not more specific that these issues are directly supported by rural governments, such as organizational matters in the country? Is it a harmony to trust rural governments for organizing everything on land and not at sea? As coastal areas continue to increase, such as fish farms and dierents, the view that marine and coastal areas are critical for legalisation. However, in 2010 planning laws consist solely of planning within the jurisdictional administrations of rural society, which are now limited by the external limit of the network. At that time, local government officials stress the importance of planning laws not permanence the traditional custody of rural organisations in organizational matters, for as one knows, the main organization in the shared organization wants society and a vision of land use and future development. To have this authority over the administration of a unit ensures that the administration of planning initiatives is based on a democratic foundation of rural government. In a direct and indirect way, coastal areas, along with the introduction and fleas, are part of the strategy of rural society. It can be assumed that significant problems and conflicts between interests can be eliminated, even to the fundamental objectives of planning legislation that will contribute to the use and protection of resources on sustainable grounds for economic development and social well - being. In support of this, I would like to mention desert land on the east, where there has been an organized tunnel and with ideas of service to tourists based on the destruction of the beach. It has been applied for permission to lower sea pens. There are conflicting views and interests. The proposals of the bill are contrary to the principle of promoting local power and decision making in terms of the public interest and reasonable management of public funds. The development of the past few years has resulted in a growing number of projects being transferred to rural communities from one country to another. Therefore, representatives of rural governments in many parts of the country are surprised to learn that we have a completely different theme in organizational matters. The metal category is among the most important elements of rural society that most of us really disappear. I ask you, who thinks Ministers are best qualified to have organizational authority over seas and coastal areas? What is the attitude of the minister in order to apply the same laws on the country - to - country organization? And finally: How normal is that power to reach?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. This subject has been discussed recently, with several reports and reports such as water. A senator did so well with the above. These analyses have clearly identified the need for marine and coastal planning and legislation on such matters. I'm going to submit a legal bill there at this council. First, what is the attitude of a minister? The same law on rural society on land and on the beach is asked. So to answer, local jurisdictionary boundaries are based on Internet laws defined as 115 meters [ 115 m] from the macrofunda levels, and the organizational laws deal with an organization in the area of the jurisdiction of the rural community. It assumes that rural communities should care for organizational arrangements within their territory. Marine and coastal areas outside the Internet, so-called ocean culture, are on government custody and are not dependent on any private property rights. In view of the fact that the marine and coastal areas outside the grid are under government custody, the bill I mentioned earlier expected that the state was organized in these regions, but in the light of local interests, the decision was also made that they had made to make decisions about the use of these areas by means of regional councils. According to the requested bill, they are responsible for the construction of a coastal region structure. It is very important in my opinion that the public's overall interest in the decision to use and protect marine and coastal resources. This means that resources will be used in a practical and sustainable way, and it is also very important to consider the interests of neighboring communities, including in the context of the work-based development. Therefore, the bill should expect to function well, which assumes that a joint decision will be made by the state and rural society through the regional council. If organizational procedures are to be used, i.e. Civil society planning plans, needs to be developed jurisdictional boundaries. The fact that rural society would care for planning in marine and coastal areas would likely lead to the establishment of the interests of individual rural society in the structure, but as I mentioned earlier, I believe that the process of the bill, through a joint decision of state and rural society through this area, will be effective when considering total interest. Next time, we'll ask you why. A senator is to have organizational authority over the seas and coastal areas. I reviewed earlier that the state has custody of marine and coastal areas outside the grid, so there is a decision for the use and protection of those areas. But I believe this is not only a matter of public interest but also of individual community interests, so I believe that the State has the main responsibility and that the rural communities are involved in making decisions through the aforementioned regional Council. It also asks how far the organizational authority should go, what is normal in doing so. The situation today is that society's jurisdictionary boundaries reach the limit of the grid. If we are to make that move, we need an upcoming collective discussion. There is a request for a secretary's policy on permit, distribution warrants for use of marine and coastal areas, and monitoring. The bill obligates to the license party to arrange publishing to be allowed in accordance with the current coastal system. In this case the operators will also be obliged to have their activities and activities in line with coastal areas. The Agency will publish its full list of existing marine and coastal permits websites on their website. With regard to my personal policy as to permission, we will see that this is an urgent subject when the salmon fire is in place, and we are faced with the fact that some have taken the early stage and received permission, and we do not know what happens because of the limitations of the long - term exposure. What will happen to those who apply for a permit when the birds are finished? There's a problem we have to get in, there's no way to get there first, first we get to it. I can't get over all of this, it was very detailed and good questions. There was also a question about a permit unit. It's being coordinated, and it's a very extensive task, because many institutions are involved, not just with the Environment and Resource Ministry, and we need to get close to it and work overall in the management system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u27	A respectable president. This is very urgent discussion, and thank you for the lead and the highest. Minister for the answers. Of course, it's long enough for us to adopt marine and coastal systems, as if we desperately need a national structure that will cope with the uses being carried out, I'm calling the tourism. It also involves the public dish, the bioavailability. That also applies to coastal areas. I see the first episode very positive that rural governments have the planning and are thereby the outer areas, outside the grid, I view regional council as a positive step. However, the matter is extremely complex, and we need to take time to talk about it. The absolute bioavailability is multiple. It is a matter of research and knowledge in these areas, whether they are really sufficient to be able to handle this issue without much further discussion than in this council. More importantly, where there is a debate in this matter that involves the public interest, the interests of the local government, and then the State may not know where the authority is. There are a number of federal institutions that are available to add to the package, to name the EEA, to name the National Institute of Natural Sciences of Iceland, Crurro and other institutions. A question is, Do not some of the things we've been discussing in this relationship need to be developed, such as the fish fire? In this case comes a harrowing section that has been on the people for quite some time, and it's a question of how he's angry about it. I think it's a subject that needs very careful discussion, but don't worry about anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u28	A respectable president. We are here discussing a fundamental issue that concerns whether societies and landowners should have something to say about employment, e.g. These include fish farms and carpets, which take place just a few miles away from the country. I'd like to point out three aspects of this case. First of all, it's a planning matter. Reports have been made that on the east of the emergency force, the rural government was in full captivity to keep shipping routes open to the rural docks due to the proposed salmon farms for the location of fuel farms. I have faith that it will be saved. Second, it's about money, a lot of money. It seems that this is some kind of no-man's land, i.e. beyond this 115 m, with only a fraction of what the income would be if these jobs were carried out on land or within 115 m. Of course, this is primarily about nature protection, and it is, in my opinion, the most important aspect of this matter. I don't care, if I may say so, about who is involved in organizing the seas and coastal areas, if we look at this in the big context. Norwegians have been taught to deal with lice problems, genetic changes because of fish that have escaped from farms of fire. There's one hell of a disaster that's gonna happen. There have been reports of Swedish banning sea farming in three places because of doubt that the Baltic Sea can break down all the fish - fueled materials. That's where the top mentioned it. Environment Minister of the very thing about the burden of burdenability in this regard. So much is certain that we need to discuss these matters in a collective and frank manner, guided primarily by nature protection issues, not by sectoral issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u29	Madam President. There is a growing demand for activities in marine and coastal areas. Increase in this activity rightly calls for total legislation on the planning of such areas, such as the highest. Environment and resource minister announces, and therefore should be welcomed. The best example is that of fish farming. I believe it is important that governments continue to support this development through sustainable development. As far as I'm concerned, there is a way to continue building on the principle of existing organizational law to establish the case so that the organizational authority will remain in the hands of rural society. According to current legislation, only 115 m of rural society reaches sea level as presented here. But these boundaries can be moved by law, and they are relatively simple. It's an old rule, an old rule that can be updated to take into account the new circumstances and new tasks we are dealing with here. An organization would still confirm the rural coastal areas and ensure that the organization would be locally in line with the State's landscape policy. This arrangement would ensure that the planning of coastal areas, such as fish farming and tourism, will be the responsibility of local representatives, and the inhabitants would have come to a decision on their local organization. This is important to bear in mind. That's what matters. There are people of the world who have the knowledge, experience, and ability to measure the level of activity and how different functions can be integrated and able to make sure that they work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u30	Thank you very much for your respect. A senator for starting this important discussion on marine and coastal planning. We are always learning more about the fact that all types of work building have some side effects, whether by means of activation, tourism, or fishing in the sea. All of these things can be positive for jobs, but they also involve natural hazards. As often as they want to be, in fact, most of the time, employment begins quickly when something pays off, faster than the lawgiver. Fish farming thus grew by 80% between 2015 and 2016. We have had a positive view of the idea that rural planning will be extended beyond Internet law. Our policy says: ▪ A growing fish farm on the shores of the country requires consideration of the need for rural planning to be expanded beyond the Internet. One hundred and forty-five yards from the heavy-fundboard. Of course, it's a big and complex matter, and it's important that we try. Learn from the experiences of other nations. Let us ensure a firm stability of this article and, at the same time, the natural interests as well as the appearance of the local people to the construction of jobs and the organization of the region. At the same time, of course, we need to protect the entire family's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u31	Madam President. One of the basics of the Union's language is respect for the nature of the country, and environmental protection is rich underneath our entire coverage at this level. Our viewpoint and interests are constantly under way: When do we take on the rights of nature? Are we taking chances? Are our actions irreversible? Are we acting in an irresponsible way toward the present and future generations? These are some of the important questions we should consider, seek answers, and make peace. Some of the decisions we make in society over the decades that involve natural protection and environmental energy bickering, some of which are reversible and others are not, which can be dramatic. There are now two basics to the use of marine and coastal sites in the Parliament. Coastal areas are together withinhabilitation and fleas of rural planning programmes, both directly and indirectly, but are limited by current legislation. Agricultural governments believe that the important objectives of resource use and protection on sustainable development and well - being not to be met unchanged, and they want to increase their autonomy in coastal planning. New trades spring up along the coast, and others are in great attendance. It is our opinion that it is important to trust the foundation of work on the country that has lost many years. We're supposed to give the country a chance. We are to examine every possible option with an open mind and a responsible approach, weigh the interests of people and the environment. We peers stress the importance of professional management. Rules and laws need to be clear, real follow-up assured and normal, mainly to sponsor the local community. We welcome new and upbuilding opportunities, adding rather to a humble industry but only to meet the most stringent conditions established by the government and carried out by professionals and laws under such circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, for starting a discussion on this important matter at the council. Coastal use legislation has long been required. Thank you, too, the highest. Ministers of answers she gave. This is about sea and coastal areas. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether the design of coastal areas in this context is not primarily addressed or not to the sea, i.e. The 200 miles, the way the minister visualizes it. We have even. Examples from Scotland and Norway, which are very different, let alone Sweden, of course, need to examine it for themselves. My opinion is that we should focus on the coastal areas where much is going on, both on land and on the water level, on fish farms, on musseling, and on other uses of the resource. I understood the minister so that she would not change existing laws about distances. Rather, it would be an Internet law. I'd like to ask the Minister to take action if that's not right. The question is, Is it the area council to handle the rest, i.e. The team members and the state? I'd like to ask the minister, "Who will establish an organization in that area? " What is the task of establishing coastal areas planning, which can live up to several rural areas and even an entire part of the country? I see that my time is over, so I'm going to have to send a query about the permit squad directly to the minister, to get those answers, if they don't show up here in the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u33	A respectable president. The main organization of rural society and the regional organization that more rural groups come together, sometimes with regard to certain kinds of issues, such as transport, tourism, and nature protection, is one of the most important instruments of rural society in the country. It is important that the rural communities take organized marine and coastal areas in their areas as well as in their own country. The interests are very related and very great. I speak of tourism, sea uses, fish farms, protection of wild salmon stocks, protection of ocean bottoms and life forms, harmonization of different innovations and protections. I don't think it's just to walk on the planning and self-determination rights of a community unless the public interest calls for it, such as the plan for major damage to nature or for safe flights. The development of rural society in marine and coastal areas must be ensured by legislation as appropriate. In addition, rural areas are taking more control of marine and coastal areas and regional monitoring and research institutions are providing increased funding and roles in monitoring and research with advice on protection and utilisation. I would like to include health care, natural institutions around the country, HA, Hoolia School, Seaset in the Swamp, BioPol on Skaga Beach, and, above all, the University of the West, which specializes in the use and protection of marine and coastal areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u34	A respectable president. The old Internet law allows marine landlords to use from medium-sized rains to more than 115 meters. There are now bills, either on the way to the council, from an advanced council or a new one from the needle, such as the use of the sea and the sea, as well as from the focal point of salmon farming policies. Landowners have come to be the permission squads of their shores. Thus, it is Spanish for me to give special permission and to use the peristaltic system in floundering, but clovens grow in waves at very low depth. Can't a landowner enjoy his fun when he's up late? When the greeting is left out of net law, should landowners be able to allow owners to strip their worth for money? Should landowners be able to gather and form breeding in their own land? Is it to be able to provide permission for large - scale salmon farming, which, in turn, pollutes the shores of landowners, has been released for decades and no one has been able to protect them? However, it is difficult for landowners to get permission to install mussels, which are considerably less disturbing than for e.g. salmon fuel. Therefore, I ask a minister: Is it not the right time now to shape a comprehensive policy for the use of coastal fishing in cooperation with rural society before being attacked in the hosting process and the seaweed or the size of the salmon industry? An apocalyptic noted that four subsets now granted permission for use in coastal areas. Don't you think it's necessary to bring this planning to a single institution? Don't you think we need to investigate the effect on the subject before we leave work to the fore? Do these things really have to happen together, as the government's plan sounds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u35	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. Organizational matters are one of the most important forms of government. I have great feelings for them as old mayor. Regional, main and shared systems, reflect the will of each community on land use, forward vision and future development of each area. The custody of rural planning administration ensures the democratic handling of planning and land use for jobs and society. Networked at a hundred and ten feet [ 115 m] away from heavy-fowl are a child of its time. We should move that line out to the present time when big business is running low on shores and fleas. Business activities such as fish farms, tourism, and even electricity production that will take up the rest of Iceland's coasts on the coasts of shores and dives outside the coast are a ruined opportunity that will come in the years ahead. A respectable president. It is vital, therefore, that in the future, more emphasis will be given to the use of a wide variety of marine and coastal areas based on global vision, ecosystems approach, protection and sustainable development and efficiency. Therefore, it is not to be overlooked that the best knowledge of the environmental potential exists between rural governments and the members of our communities. It will not be overlooked by the knowledge and experience of people and society as we discuss how organizational matters for the marine and coastal regions will be implemented. The rural government is the democratic foundation, in which an organization and reimburse workers in marine and coastal areas are determined, in my opinion. It is indeed a vital subject on the journey that requires discussion that will help us to come to a better understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u36	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. The discussion of organizational matters is certainly important, but I encourage the debate of fish farming in open seas not only to bring about planning and employment, but also to the level of environmental risks taken by granting license for fish farming in open seas and to exploit the resource to the community. In the reporting period since last weekend, Sweden was reported to have banned fish farms in open seas in three places along the coast of East Sweden because of the bad environmental effects of such a fire. It is the conclusion of a court in Sweden that specializes in environmental issues. The judgment seems unlikely that the sea will be able to break down its chemicals in such a fish farm. According to the news reports, the judgment is thought to indicate the end of all marine farms in Sweden. At the same time in Sweden, we Icelanders are adding a significant amount of sea stress. Already salmon farms have been granted permission for thousands of tons of fish and have been applied for additional licenses for the use of fuel on tens of thousands of tons across the country without adequate preparation. Biodiversity has not been adequately studied, so those with direct interest are not disturbed by the lack of adequate information in order to protect their interests. One of the necessary things e.g. the need for information on medicinal products used in such fish farms and how they affect the environment on their own. The organizational issues are one of the core elements of the rural society and one of their most important controls. This need to be taken into account in the legislation, and the decision for distribution must be made to ensure that the highest environmental requirements are followed and that resource uses run to the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u37	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. She's clearly needed. It is urgent that we get on with this important matter that will help us to see our future in this country. I'm glad the minister here speaks of a better screening for application procedures and surveillance because the application procedure is complicated and much. There's a review of structural tolerance, the Environmental Assessment System, the EEA and Food Organization, both of which are off-limits, but the Agency, which is head of the project, has a view of this. I'm asking, "What leads a minister to do that? " What I've also noticed in this conversation is that people see a way to change. It is determined by the European Union, which implements policies for rural society, that at the time of the work, the President's permission, the planning of coastal areas, up to one seamhole from the base of the weekend, will be subject to the custody of rural society. It was then shown in the Senate that boundaries could be drawn. Some rural communities have found that they should, in effect, aim for a butterfly. The calculus we have on them is from nesi toness. A line is drawn. Does a minister see it as a way? Is it possible to expand it? Because I couldn't mean it in the case of a minister that she was going to change something into this organization. So I just ask: Is she willing to look at these local ideas and local members of the country for a change in that direction? - If you don't, I'd like to thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u38	A respectable president. Thank you, everybody. Councilmen, and, of course, perfunctory, for a good discussion. This is a roadside point of view for local communities and the expected employment structure that will become, as well as for us to deal with the general public. We are not talking about what is now under the organization of rural society, but many recommend that we expand our organization to the public. I have to say, I don't think that's a very good idea. I think it should be, as suggested in the billing series, joint decision-making, that countries and rural communities are involved in this. In fact, it's not just a finger, it's a finger. It's a whole hand. There's the state saying, "Come, let's take this conversation through the regional councils, so let's figure it out together. It's none of your business, we're just gonna put it this way, the State. But that was not what we were going to do. Then maybe everybody wants to take their whole hand. I'm reluctant. I think these interests are a public interest. As noted in the case of many members of Congress, nature protection there is very important, biological, and ecosystems. We need to be careful that that voice and their interests are held in high esteem. That's what happens when we talk about it together and we do it together. So no, I don't recommend that rural planning be extended. They need much more discussion. [[The president calls.]] We will continue to discuss these matters here, I imagine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u39	A respectable president. Iceland's government agreed at its meeting on February 16, 2016, to establish a special fund, a disaster fund, which would be responsible for the prevention and coordination of tasks, natural years, as well as for projects in the foreclosure field. A disaster fund should also oversee the payment of certain government costs and, in limited cases, the damage caused by natural disasters. It's assumed that the disaster fund will be divided into the pre-preservation and improvement funds. The Environmental and Resource Ministry was to be involved in the development of the disaster fund on the basis of this government's decision. The average annual cost of the state funds since 20081⁄2016 as a result of disaster was 456 billion. K., so this is clearly a big deal. So I asked the following queries for the highest. Environment and resource minister: When will action be expected in accordance with the decision of the former government? Is it expected that a special organization will be set up for the work of a disaster fund, or how will it be handled otherwise? How does a minister provide sufficient funds, that he or she will be guaranteed in any way? All of these are important questions because somehow it has happened, so since February 2016, there has been very little reports of a disaster fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u40	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Prominently, the beginning of this case was very clear and the way the first government appointed a task force to explore the willingness of this special disaster fund. As a result, the current Environment and Resource Minister appointed a task force to create a bill for the disaster fund. There are some of the members of the group, the representative of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development, and the European Union, and the group are directed by a representative of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The staff plan to complete this year's bill. I'm trying to contribute it to the next legislature. Asked: Is it expected that a special agency will be set up for the work of a disaster fund, or how will they be handled otherwise? The report of the service group appointed earlier suggested that the disaster fund be saved at the Environment and Resource Ministry, but no agency would be set up to establish it. Current working group preparing this bill... [[Up front.]] No, that was not expected. The question is, How will a minister see that enough money for the fund is assured? A disaster fund was suggested to be financed by the income stocks present today. It is an overcrowded income, the contribution of the state funds to the A-deck Department, a share in Iceland's remuneration policy, and a community contribution, as needed, as well as additional state funds. The largest part of these incomes is the income of a flood tax. The group preparing the bill will win, including exposition of the above suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u41	A respectable president. The vascular endothelial is large in the left green. It doesn't matter who speaks for us. Thank you. Foreman and chief. Minister for the answers. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the financing. Now we're at that spot in this financial and financing circle under the new government law that it would probably have to be assumed that this would be in place if it was to take effect next year. Is that what is being considered for work that is undoubtedly part of the Ministry? Or will we wake up in the fall when Christmas approaches that it has to go into the next circle because it forgot to log it into this new environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u42	Madam President. Thank you so much for your answers. Environment and resource minister. It's a joy to see that bill this year. The highest possible response was not clear. Minister how this fund will be taken care of. If this was to happen late and eventually, as we hope, it must be discussed with a considerable amount of money. This fund will contain hundreds of millions, if not more. Besides, I don't see if her income is what she brings and what she calls. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in, he's really enough. It must then be revealed, or the highest. A minister has to explain it further. It is clear that you do not need to be surrounded by fire power and earthquakes in Iceland or by avalanches, or as in Skaftá, with related land damage, or with the eyes of Bjording or Hiclu or Khatla or Gím, the power to complete this aspect of the nature problem, which is a step of forming a disaster fund and getting it useful with the best results in all steering, expansion, financial, and so forth. I really hope this bill sees the light of the day as soon as possible and becomes very careful of everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u43	A respectable president. Thank you for the urgency of what you've been doing. The apocalyptic. Of course, it is quite clear that the prerequisite for a disaster fund to work as we think it will, and clearly all agree on that, is that there is an efficient payment and that it is all at once. They're working on finding a way to make this work. I can't answer that better. The bill's not ready. But as I say, it is estimated that we will contribute to the next legislature. These things need to be considered. Like what? I bet a senator knows what's best about Iceland, we can expect a natural disaster at any moment. Then it is urgent to have every infrastructure in order. I hope we can do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u44	V.E.G. President. On May 31, 2016, the government agreed to make a commission to implement a community and professional development programme for the West, i.e. The Western Committee. The work was done under the leadership of the Ministry of Presidency, but in close cooperation with other departments and in consultation with the head of the Councils on community issues. The Western Report was presented in the government on September 5, 2016, as well as in the autumn Summit of the Fourth Amendment, September 9, 2016. The Western report shows that parishes are in the setting of educational centres where distance can be maintained at various levels, especially in high school, so that children can pursue homework. This educational center has been set up in Hólmavík, and in the West, but it is not for the Rukhah carpet. The report suggests that a high school department will be founded in a Rholah carpet. The rationale for this suggestion is that there is now a large river march on the Rhandols, i.e. Young people who are approaching high school age. It turns out that after school in Hólmavík and the Smokehappar are seeking to be in the same flotation with the Stranders for a wide variety of high school educations. Preparation of the procedure requires early implementation. Therefore, it is desirable to have the strength for an employee to handle matters from the fall of 2016. This project is suggested to work together with the Western Educational Center and High School. With this arrangement, inhabitants of rural areas have been able to attend a school without moving, but the availability of telecommunications has increased in recent years, as there has been a great demand for such studies. Students come from most age- and community groups. The increased supply has given more opportunities for study, and this contributes to equal study facilities regardless of their home estate. The cost programme for this project is estimated at 7.2 million for two years, and the responsibility and implementation of the project has been the Ministry of Education and Culture. So I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, if he has begun to prepare for the Institute of High Schools at the Smoke, in cooperation with the University of Strando, based on the proposal for a report by the Western Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u45	A respectable president. To answer this question, an inquiry came from a Rukholah carpet to the Ministry of the Ministry in September of the last fall. They asked about the possibility of setting up a high school department in the Rhools. The Ministry discussed this and is still working on it. There has been no decision as to the extent to which this assignment will be carried out, but I agree with what was presented. An elder before that it is extremely important to try to examine all the advantages that may exist in order to enable young students to pursue advanced studies in their area for as long as possible, especially in high school. For everyone, that is the way things work. In order for this to be possible, a number of factors must be assured, especially those in the teaching field and other factors that must be followed. Also, there is a need to ensure that funds can be used wisely by high school departments. We have good experience with the activities of such high school students. It may be some of the essentials that I don't have information about, or some benefits, of the position that can be used effectively. This will be evident after the Ministry has completed its discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u46	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's minister of education and culture for the answer. I'd like to inform the highest. Minister that this was a query as a matter of course. During the last district of last district, the delegates of the Northwestern district were given a trip to the district. I'm glad that we've started work at the Ministry of Education and Culture to examine all aspects of this matter and whether this project is possible. I allow me to be optimistic about how this should work, especially as it comes from a smokeholah license that large years of students are now getting into high school. Also, it's been so much fun to get news from communities where these departments are employed where - when I was preparing for this case, I noticed that much life had been made into communities by the students' being allowed to stay at home. I even saw. News of the fact that life had been transferred into playmates and other activities that are extremely important to communities. But I finally want to ask the highest. Education minister whether any timeline within the Ministry was set up on the decision whether this project could be realized or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u47	A respectable president. Yes, there are many questions raised and raised during the election, naturally. What a joy it is to be brought in to the legislature for a discussion and meditation on all who sit here! It is very good for members of the council to hear what burns on people in many parts of the country, perhaps not all of which are in the media every day. It's one of those things where the locals are trying to work on progress for their country, and that's good. It's supposed to be a celebration. I don't have any information about when and how we're on this project. But it is quite clear, as I had in my previous reply, that if we're going to see this come true, we'll have to see a place in the budget of that year. It is clear that this is not for the budget of 2017. First, this could come into play in connection with budgeting the year 2018. There's got to be a time to prove. If the Ministry's opinion is that this is possible and that it is desirable to go to that job, they must look for funding for the project, if the result of the investigation becomes positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u48	V.E.G. President. A recent report on the work market of nurses performed by Icelandic nurses reports that 290 nurses are abdicating the status of nurses in Iceland. However, according to the Director - General of Nurses and Nurses Directors, 523 nurses are needed according to the anticipated need. According to a press report published by Icelandic nurses, only 69% of them are members of the Icelandic nurses'club working on about a thousand other nurses. The report shows that the death of newly graduated nurses is an average of 15% in the last five years, with a pay difference between nurses and other classes of comparable education and government responsibilities of 20%. The most common start rate for your nurse is 359 you. K. For a full - time job, and the average nurse's pay is 526 you. K. The director of Icelandic nurses also says that to ensure adequate care for the nursing and thereby the safety of patients and to reduce their mortality, it is necessary to act in public and clinics. In the latest news I found at the University of Iceland's Web site, there are actually 2015 figures and even has the highest numbers. Other and new figures, reportedly prior to the fall of 2015, were met by 157 candidates in the nursing department. Based on the number of criteria for nursing core studies, 100 students are enrolled, but the number depends on the performance of hospitals and health care institutions for the practical training of students. It should be noted that if two or more students are equal in their final position, taking into account the number limitation, both of them receive the right to study. Thus, when these 157 candidates met the entry criteria, 105 found out that, though 180 students applied for the study at the time. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education is going to use extra funds for nursing courses to meet the lack of nurses and how he intends to cope with the breakdown of nursing. Also, I would like to ask if he will use himself to increase the number of clinics for nurses within the clinics and then how.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with three queries. First, the question is, Am I planning to use extra funds for nursing courses to meet the lack of nurses? It is to say that in my work I intend to focus on the well - being of the university system but not particularly on raising funds for single courses. The budget of the last government and the budgets for this year is clear to determine how to improve funding for each student at the university. I intend to maintain that plan for stress and work on improving the quality and financial resources of the university system, including by review of the college model. Such emphasis works for the whole of the university system, especially for college, as well as for the nurse as for other articles. When asked how a minister will respond to a discharge from a nursing school, it should be noted that elimination from individual colleges or university courses is the subject of the university itself as independent institutions, so the Ministry of Education and Culture has not been specifically used in such limited topics. However, I intend to make more effective and improved academic progress in general, including by changing the law on the Icelandic loan fund and reviewing a model for funding to the university, as mentioned earlier. Similarly, it is considered whether degradation is somehow separated from a university education. In 2012, according to U.S. Habitat's Office on the track record rate for students at university, which was collected 10 years ago, the average was more than 69%. According to the Ministry, from the University of Iceland, the average graduate nurse from the University of Iceland was 2011-2016 83%, which is somewhat higher than the average. According to reports from the University of Akureyri, in recent years about 90% of those who start a training course from the school there have been enrolled. I would also like to point out that according to the number of graduates of nurses in the 2013 OECD Member States, these are the latest international control numbers we have, graduates of 73 nurses to a 100,000 people. It is the highest rate of the number of registered nurses to the population of all North countries, and only five countries graduated in OECD more nurses. Although most health professionals are employed in the capital area, Iceland is rural and health care needs to be done on a national level that calls for more nurses than in densely populated countries. From the above, it is clear that the problem is not that we learn not enough nurses but that the nurses we teach at the university do not work at Icelandic clinics. That is a subject that needs special attention. You're absolutely right. An apocalyptic noted earlier that a thousand graduated nurses who operate in something other than the trade we educated the individual, i.e. We're going to nurse. So it has to do with a final question from what happened. Senator. It is asked whether I will use myself to increase the number of training kits for nurses in the clinics and how. As I have pointed out, I do not believe that the main problem with caring for nursing is because not enough people are educated in the trade. Practical Teaching of Nurses Under Health Care, No. 40/2007, and they are carried out on the responsibility of the health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u50	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for His Answers, and you have to say that you're undeniably thinking when you see these figures of inadequacy reflected in the estimates made. You're right. You're right. Secretary of education, former U.S. Marshals. Health Minister, notes that it is important to view the whole country as a whole when it comes to nurses and, of course, all the other work being done in this country. Thus, we are very much inclined to agree with the rest of the candidate's work, and we look to it in a plagion proposal that we have proposed for a health plan for the country all that is required to serve in the whole country. I want to thank you very much. Education minister for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that there is going to be an increase in funds for the university and to reevaluate models and that this will likely benefit the colleges, the courses there and there. Of course, you want to say so, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers that we must not only watch the University of Iceland but also the powerful university institutions and schools that we have in many parts of the country, such as Akureyri, and also in the northwestern district. I certainly hope that all of us will be alert to the loss that takes place because we have to, and it's our responsibility, to try to resist the present state of life and get people into those jobs, for this concerns all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u51	A respectable president. That's right, it's all about us. It's sobering when we look at nurses, but also to teachers, schoolteachers, high school, and high school teachers, how we do these jobs. I don't think the solution to the problem lies in the way the study is being done in the school system or the university level. There are much more complex subjects that cause the development we are dealing with, especially in the topic of this discussion, in the affairs of nurses. It is obvious from the figures referred to here and the information that the Ministry has on deduction that it is not so extreme but the lack of the professionals we need at the medical centres in the field of nurses primarily because nurses choose to serve other jobs than they have educated themselves. That's a subject we need to look to far beyond our education alone. My focus is on strengthening the university finance, and we need to reevaluate the algorithm for our university education. This will benefit all the professionals or the students we are going to give within the school class. I know and expect to have an excellent partnership with university presidents on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u52	Madam President. In today's digital world, many have suffered. Congress members think about it in recent years. It was approved by a council decree from which. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, who was determined to initiate a committee that would develop a series of actions that would allow Iceland to be eligible in the digital world. Similarly, 200 European experts who had identified the status of 30 European languages based on the new reality were evaluated. There, according to the United States, the highest risk of extinction is found in the 30 languages evaluated, following the Maltian language. I know it's the highest. During the first few weeks of his office, a minister of English made a talk of the subject. I'll be happy if it's the best. A minister is going to take that case for a special consideration. It had begun work as the former highest. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson proclaimed that there would be a strategy for language technology and language technology. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in particular study language technology and its prospects. I've been digging for the fact that there will be no application for the course of teaching in 2017/2018 into the school of grammar at the University of Iceland, which is the field of physics for training students in order to cooperate with technology and the language on the other hand. This surprised me. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in view of the information, unless there are any new information on the matter, whether or not it is needed to look at this study specifically and to strengthen it with regard to the programs that the government has announced to further Icelandic in the digital world. The study of science is designed to link artificial intelligence, grammar, computer science, statistics, and psychology so that those who complete this study can develop tools that can work with and understand natural language and that can contribute to the use of them in human and computer relationships. It's what stands out from all the experts in this field that it happens within a few years, and indeed it's already begun, I've studied some kind of device that is controlled by my speaking but does not require that you use your fingers to enter orders. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in his vision of this study and whether any action will be taken so that students can be taken into this study, preferably every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. They are two - point students with forward - to - future views at a university language degree. This question will be asked whether there is a specific value to study this article with regard to government estimates to promote Icelandic in a digital world. The client rightly quoted as the last government, which was at the meeting of the government on September 2, 2000. They agreed to contribute 50 million. K. in 2016 funding for scoring technical technologies, policies and selection of technical implementation for Icelandic databases, local standards of data databases, and implementing a precise financial and work programme for the five-year-old grammatical policy-making programme for Icelandic languages. October 28th. was appointed a special control group over this task. His main work is to set up a language - specific program for the Icelandic language. In connection with that group's work, they are working together to report the status and future of language education. This report shall specifically discuss public studies in college that can be associated with language technology or grammatical projects, how to organize mastering language courses, and what tasks might fall within them. At the same time, the report has to do with factors that might be related to grammar at the various degrees of university education in this country. That report will include four university professors, two from the University of computers in the University of Reykjavík and the University of Iceland, and the University of Icelandic and cultural school of Iceland, as well as from the organization of industry. The report is due in the next few months. It is directly linked to the five-year legal programme for the Icelandic language I mentioned earlier. The last time I heard of that assignment and inquired about its situation, I was to have a plan for it in the spring months. The question is, will new students be enrolled in seminary at the University of Iceland next fall, and if not, why? Since 2007, the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík has been in cooperation with the University of Language at the university. At the beginning, and now this information received from the Ministry was decided to take in every other year, and it lasted mostly until 2015. Until 2011, the study was started in cooperation with the Norwegian Language School, which allowed the university to send students to a short course at a university in the North and the Baltic States. When they finished working together, I understand that there was a very low level of study available in the local language. For this reason, the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík had decided not to offer master's education in the grammar of the winter, 2016,2017, including the United States. because of lack of qualified teachers and difficulty offering specialized language courses. My personal opinion on this matter is that I think it is important to consider priorities in the interests of university language, both planning and financing. I have requested that there be a specific examination of the procedure for the language technology program mentioned earlier. I have heard that, without having it confirmed, I had the experience that there was an interest and the students who wanted to get to that school. I've received no explanation other than the ones I've explained why this has not been offered. My will is to link this with the work I've done to the talk of operations plans or goal plans in grammar, and I hope that somehow we can finance a career in this field in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u54	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of the information he presents here. I admit that I did not know that this study had also been offered during that winter, i.e. 2016-2017, who now adds to my anxiety in view of the fact that we have been discussing this matter since 2013 when a strong appeal was made to work on these issues. The project, like any other, has been reduced from collapse. However, it can also be pointed out that the campaign was under way. The former minister of Björn Bjarnason was temporary, but it was important. But I think now the situation will show us that it can't be done just by a great deal of work. They need to ensure ongoing study, teaching, and research in this field. This adds to my anxiety in view of the fast time I have in these matters. We see technology developing rapidly, but at the same time we know that we have not been able to update this technology. V.E.G. Ministers testify that there have been 50 million on 2016 budgets to shape a strategy and that there are plans for a longer-term amount of money. It's the highest. A minister suggests that it can be useful to offer the study presented on the Web site of HI as a partnership project and HR during the winter of 2017 -18, if possible? V.E.G. A minister says, and I've heard the same thing, that there seems to be a considerable interest in the study. I think the opportunity is to go by us, that we don't get students who are about to prepare to participate in the big work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u55	A respectable president. I'll share my concerns with you. A leader because we are not maintaining speed of technology, not meeting the challenges that are there and actually doing nothing but increasing. As we do not meet them in some way, the number of subjects we have to deal with each day and day is increasing. There is something that we don't want to see and that we have a good match here in this room trying to fight this trend. When you ask for funding during this study, in the winter of 2017/018, if this extra funding could be useful in this sector, I don't know it. But I will look into it and look for the ways that are capable of meeting the interest we are, both foreboding and foreboding, informing that there is an interest in the study of these studies. We are at the point where we should use and seize every opportunity to fight this challenge. But the world is so floating and fast today that I heard the first of those cowards in one small moneybook entry where I just stumbled into this information that we've been shooting between us. My last words are that I will use every opportunity I can see to strengthen the work we are going to do in this regard in order to meet the challenges that Icelandic faces.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u56	V.E.G. President. Last year, there were an increase of 7.5% of the population in Smokejanes, or about 1,100 people in the area. It now has an enormous body of construction. The old defense zone at Keflavour Airport is now one of the flat areas of the town of Smokejanes, known as Ásbek. There are two high school schools and a elementary school. Then the local community runs a suitable station for people with disability on Ásbek. From a decade ago, the Keflavorian airport, Kadeco, took over the defense's property, and the cost of the conversion of the military base to civil society has been 7 billion. This means that 10 billion have slipped into the state fund. Now, more than anything in the area has been sold out of Kadeco's business and put into civilian use, the last time it's sold in real estate for $5 billion to Icelandic real estate ehf. With the sale, Kadeco has finished selling some 93% of the facility that the Society has had in charge of Ásbek on behalf of the state funds after the loss of the army. Since then, property has been sold to 38 different parties in an open trade process. The team of professionals at Smokeynesi, SAR, held a meeting in Smokeytown during the days where the position on Ásb bridge was intervening. Roll up. It stated that when the army left 2006, it was a major blow to the local economy that affected the community's business, which then got even worse after the two - year economic collapse. From the beginning, there was much more to the income of the local community. Hence, it is indicated at the highest level. Secretary of finance whether it is reasonable to believe that the State will contribute funds for building in the area that comes out of the sale of property on Ásb bridge. It would also be interesting to know what is the highest vision. Minister has a future arrangement and a management of the Keflavour Airport Development Society. The Society was formed to develop former defense areas and to place valuables in them. It has now been over a decade since the U.S. Army disappeared from the country. There are five rural communities that work closely together on the development of the region, along with the Southnesian Marketing Office. One must wonder: Is it still a basis for the operation of Kadeco? Or is it time to lay down the company? What's the highest opinion? The minister of it, i.e. About the Future of Kadeco? Is that a course yet?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u57	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir query. She asks if a minister intends to use the funds obtained from selling property on Ásbek, the former territory in Smokeynestown, to be used for building up in the area. First, I'd like to discuss just the conduct and key figures. Thus, during the takeover of the former government of the United States, three designated areas A, B, and C were divided into three designated areas. Area A is the airport area. This is the largest part of the air protection zone and land and buildings that are used for flying speed. The site is covered with Istavia. Area B is a safety area, i.e. the area of air protection that is used for protection, such as radar control and air space control. The area of staff C is a grossly affected section of the former protective zone outside of the air protection fence. According to Article 4. track No. 176/2006, following a deal with the United States on defense grounds, was permitted to hide the development community from the Cheflavour airport ehf. to take care of the government's administration of real estate in this latter area, C. The objective was to get the first area into a lucrative civil use. Furthermore, it was permitted to hide the management of a particular estate in the airport area and other tasks related to development and the conversion of airports and territory. In the area of C, about 60 square miles [60 sq km] around the airport, a total of about 320 of you were present. square feet of house to bridge, about 210 of them. square feet of apartment property. The rest, 110 of you. square metres, industrial and service facilities. After the registration of property for Iceland's National Registry, there were four square feet [35,000 m] in about 280 of yours, about 160 of which were yours. square metres of apartment house but 120 of you. square metres of industrial and services facilities. The total number of apartments was 2,000, 950 of which were traditional families and 1,050 individual apartments. According to Kadeco's development partner, the Cheflavor airport, about 94% of the houses have been sold to 40 different parties. At the same time, the regional host systems were sold to Southnes heat plant 84 million. A dollar. Smokeynestown accepted the maintenance of the parking lot of the area. So the total price of property in the management board is about 18 billion dollars. So far. To answer a question, why? The senator has all the payments for selling property in area C passed to state funds and will continue to do so. This is in accordance with the value of all other government property across the country. I will not use myself to make an exception to this rule in this case. In this context, though, it is good to mention the many positive effects that have been derived from government reactions and private members following the evacuation of the defense team. Real estate expenditures of all the real estates that have been introduced into civilian use flow to local rural society. It can be assumed that the buyers and tenants of the previously mentioned holdings may have added the financial value of a substantial contribution to the reimbursement of the assets to make them useful. The previously mentioned measures have resulted in a number of new workplaces in this area, with a source of worthwhile activity, as well as a profit from taxpaying the area. More than 650 people work in 115 companies, such as Keil ▪ National Centers for Science, Education and Business Life, Four Data Plants, Technical Institutes on Smokernes as well as biomechanics. Investments of one of these four data beings are now on the third of tens of billions. How satisfying it is to observe the transformation that has taken place in the South during recent years, where employment conditions have changed for the better and varied jobs are now available in the area! It can be noted, then, that the investments of the Istavia Kingdom in the airport area, area A, have been considerable over the years, and it is estimated to be even more extensive in the coming years. The annual investment has been up to 20 billion dollars. It can be said that each year, thus investing in the value of the total value of property so far. Finally, I'd like to say that meetings have been held with local rural communities regarding possible cooperation on the future development of the region, and the Ministry will continue these meetings. For your last request, why? I'd like to say that I've been in a meeting with Kadeco, but I haven't developed a social policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u58	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for answering my inquiries very clearly. Very detailed answers he gave here and a fine review, interesting details about the area and his vision of the construction of the area. We agree that the structure of the area is very positive. There are very exciting things ahead. Indeed it is true that the structure that has already occurred has had a profound beneficial effect on the whole Southnes area, i.e. has become a number of new enterprises. It is true that the country society of Rhines has found real estate fees for the property that has gone to civil use and so on. Of course, less. Still, I am disappointed at the highest. A minister has made the final decision that the profit of goods does not slide, not even a small portion, for continued building up in the area. Although the town society, which is like the highest. A minister knows a very heavily-developed rural society, receiving a number of expenses, and earnings on the job structure that takes place there is a great expense in changing former military bases into an ordinary Icelandic neighborhood. There are things that need to be done. The view of the area, like the highest. Minister knows it's very military yet. You'd like to see the area be more beautiful than it already is. It costs money. So I would have chosen a minister to have answered something else. [[The president calls.]] But it's a good thing that this is ahead of us. I know that rural areas in Southnes will not be satisfied with these answers, but this is his attitude. I will follow that question closely with regard to the prospect of the future. Minister has on Kadeco, the Keflavour Airport Development Society. [[The president calls.]] That is very interesting and urgent discussion too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u59	Madam President. I want to reiterate that I share with a what. A senator is concerned about the financial status of Smokeynestown. I think it's all the concern that's been watching how this town's been through a lot of trouble that he certainly hasn't come out of yet. I believe, however, that it may be excessive to say that no part of the value is going to build up in the area. Of course, tax returns in various ways to build up in the area. We know that the work we need to do is vitally important. I can, for example. Name two things in transport that have been much in the news lately, Grindíkótttir, and deforestation of the Smokey Way, all the way. I think that me and most of the members of Congress, perhaps all of them, would agree that it is very important to go through these procedures. Hopefully, it will be possible to get enough money so that it will be more quickly than later. With Kadeco, I can tell you what. I've been on my schedule for quite a while to go and visit the company. For various reasons, time has not been found. This has been a flexible meeting period that has moved into my program. I hope I'll be there soon, and I'm looking forward to that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to talk to and get answers from the highest level. Secretary of finance for reimbursement of a valuable tax for tourists or so-called ◯tax fres, as it is apparently called in Anglo - Saxon, by permission of the President. As it is now, there is a 15% remuneration rate for tourists at the cost of over 6 measures. K. and is bought here on land, and this is about what goes on and happens in other parts of Europe. The cause and ideologies behind ◯tax fress is to increase the retail trade and, likewise, that those tourists who come here to our country do not use our infrastructure to match those who live here and therefore should pay less attention to society. There is at least one reason why reimbursement of valuable tax should be available for tourists. In 2014, there were reimbursements for tourists from the state funds, which returned to tourists' pockets as well as middlemen who are responsible for paying back the merit tax, and 2.2 billion in 2015. We see tremendous growth in it. At the same time, we can even see. that our road system is not well thought enough. It is often a matter of how to obtain money from tourists in order to meet the needs of the tourism industry. So I ask a relatively open question: What's the minister's position on reimbursement of a cost tax for tourists? Does a minister consider raising or lowering his payment? Does a minister consider it necessary to offer his reimbursement? Is it necessary to give back for every sold product? Would it not be possible to reduce reimbursement from a government fund by e.g. moving the maximum to 10 ys. 1 0, 15 ys. Jar? For reimbursement, it is necessary in France to make a deal for 175 euros. There is much to do to make sure that we continue to build up, e.g. The road system. This is one discussion that needs to be handled. I can't wait to hear the answers. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u61	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Make an appeal to Guðrún Helgadóttir for your inquiry. It has long been used to reimburse the value tax from foreign tourist purchases in line with the principle that export is not to be regarded as a worth - price tax. I'd like to state that the numbers I've received from the Ministry are not fully in agreement with numbers. A senator, however, does not matter in any principle. According to the figures I have reimbursed toll a customs manager in 2016 over 1.6 billion dollars, 515 million of them went to the administrative cost of remuneration and the rest, about 515 million of them. 1 billion, returned to the tourists. As predicted, the reimbursement will account for 1.8 billion a year, of which nearly 600 million will be at the expense of reimbursement. A reimbursement tax for purchases can not be paid for less than 6 you can buy. At a rate of 850 bucks. of that money. Rather, the minimum amount of reimbursement is stated in the Regulation. Travellers are not paid back all the valuable tax, and the differences are made to the administrative expenses of private companies and in the late days are expressed in stores. Hv. A senator asks me about my position in reimbursement of the cost of extra tax for tourists. I'm thinking that we can reduce the payment of a valuable tax. There have been discussions, including ... intheFEC to raise the minimum budget. For example, it has been noted that the price to buy would be minimal to 15 of you. K. which results in approximately 2 you. K. Reim. I have had a positive view of such ideas. This will mean that rapid sequences formed at the Cheflavík terminal reduces, making it easier for the government to reimburse the tourist population itself, and most important, this will reduce the total financial level of the reimbursement. The first calculation assumes that such a change will reduce by less than one third, or by 25◯30%, or more than 400 million. K. compared with the activities I read in 2016. The Senator also asks if a minister feels the need to reimburse the money. My opinion is that reimbursement is not necessary, it is not based on international agreements or commitments. The reimbursement of the individual business sector, i.e. a little sale to tourists. There is very good evidence that this is the way the Kingdom is designed to show. The less than 2 billion undivided are reimbursed this year. A senator points out, making good use of his government, or paying off the debt of the state. Of course, it is possible that the reimbursement will probably work as an incentive to buyers for business and thus may be less likely to be paid on the lower level. In any case, it is reasonable to review both the minimum financial height and the reimbursement ratio to increase so that larger items go to the tourists themselves. A system where a third of the reimbursement is costing management is probably too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u62	A respectable president. I must thank you for that answer. With the figures that don't seem right for us, I'll get my numbers from the record record of 2014 and 2015. Other numbers may appear elsewhere, it should be considered. Sounds like the highest. The minister of finance is relatively agreeing with these issues, amazing but true. I think that might be a reason to make an assessment of how much value ◯tax free, or reimburse, for tourists, they have on a little business here in the country before major changes are made. At least I know that because of my experience, I have been raised in a store that sells clothes that it was no special market, as it were. There are many people who just don't care to be paid back by the tax. I'm the highest. A minister simply to enter the report first in consultation with storekeepers to see if any possible landing could be achieved. It's like we're at the highest. A financial minister agrees with the need to pay down debt and to strengthen the infrastructure. Each broad bridge will cost about that. 500 million to fix it, to put it on a double bridge. We can view this as an investment into the future, to ensure the tourist industry for generations to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u63	Madam President. I'd like to say that I'm not surprised at all. A senator will agree. I'm almost sure most senators agree on a reasonable matter. This is exactly one of them. Of course, we must not rush into anything. I agree with what. A senator may well consider the matter. It just so happens, as I put it in my speech, that we were already looking at this matter in the Ministry of Economics, which is why it might be said that the inquiry was a good time. That was something we had thought of. It is not always the case that members of Parliament are so considerate of asking Ministers about something they have been thinking ahead of time, but that was the case this time. I think there is reason to consider changes such as By next year. I don't think such changes are good enough to do very suddenly, I think we agree on that, me and the other. A senator, but next year it might well be considered to raise the standards in the way I mentioned them. It was fascinating to hear numbers from other countries that are much higher, which may be particularly encouraging to buy the most expensive things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u64	Madam President. The tenure market situation is very difficult, and it has been discussed both in the General Assembly and in the community in all kinds of contexts. This is especially true when we consider those who have a low income. The government's housing support and how it is handled are of vital importance. Sadly, there are very few cases of rent - rent workers with small provisions. As matters are now taking place, the government's housing benefits begin to be limited to more than 258 measures. K. ... money. On the one hand, I want to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities when he intends to comply with Article 30. Refuse to Save Your Children, No. 75/2016, make changes in the budget of the annual income of 17. The law, for example. poorer people who live alone and only have payments from the government's insurance agency for forwards have full housing benefits. I'd like to state that if I take the example of an invalid, it is worth pointing out that from May 1, next up to now minimum income after six months of work at the labour market will rise to 280 of them. K. So even if this is specifically the case, it is true that more groups with very little means of provision are important, as is the case with housing. However, I would also like to ask, because with changes made in housing support, the social security benefits, including pension improvements, are considered to be the highest. A minister will use a change in the law to prevent pension improvements, such as medical expenses and December satisfaction, in particular benefits from purchases, not thinking of operating houses, but in order to buy medication, to reduce housing benefits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u65	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for this inquiry. I'd like to state at the outset that I share her concerns about a position in a housing market in general. It is clear that it has the advantage of many very narrowly, and perhaps especially now because it is simply a great lack of housing, which greatly increases the risk of the explosion of prices or rent prices. There is good reason to be concerned about the situation, and, actually, it is acting as a special group on the government's behalf on which government resources can be used to support this narrow position on the market. Hv. A senator specifically points to me two questions, whether or not we intend to change the budget for housing and when. The answer is yes, we will. There is a Regulation at the Ministry of Health to address this change rapidly and safely. The history of the case is very simple. Since the General gave up a law on housing benefits. The fall changed the criteria, or the earners of the lowest improvement, which was added to the criteria submitted to the homeimpation process at the time. As a result, there was in reality a discrepancy between the lowest improvements and the home reform system. It follows, and it is reasonable to expect that a person with minimal improvement will enjoy adequate housing. This is what we're going to change and we're already preparing for it. I expect it to go relatively fast and safely and hopefully take value from next month's meet if it works well. As to the second part of the question, if we intend to change the arrangement for other incomes, such as December supplementation and possible special support for drug costs, the answer to that question is: No. The key issue in reimbursement was that all taxable incomes would come in recovery and that equal positions between individuals were maintained regardless of the source of their income. The house - to - house reform system was designed to begin with, so it was greatly improved. It has to be remembered that the base height, the maximum financial height, was raised from 22 o'clock. K. of 31 up. K. and estimated that this will increase the spending of over 2 billion to achieve this position, which I think is very important. In another context, I have discussed that it is of utmost importance in supporting us that we do not discriminate against people according to the source of their income. Rather, it is based primarily on whether they are tall or low. It was a basic thought that greatly improved the new housing laws; it is no longer a distinction between where people earn; whether they are employed or due to disability or other income. This is of utmost importance because we can often get into it, at least in my opinion, that it is a very wrong message on the part of the government to tell people: We cannot give you support if you have a low income of a job market, but we can help you much more if you have a low income, e.g. of disability or of any kind. That's what we need to be careful about. In fact, it is one of the measures we also look at, in addition to support in housing markets, to direct these improvements, as well as making child - making, and so on, just to the most efficient groups, regardless of their background. I hope this answers questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u66	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For the inquiry, the Árnadóttir Þóra Yearsy, wants to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss alimony and impairment in general. Despite the government's talk about floundering, economic growth, and improving public interests, it is evidently that there is an ever - increasing number of people in Iceland who have been left behind. People in the shelter of Icelandic welfare policy are being held in a poverty trap, minimal help with impairment. Throughout the years, well - being has established laws and regulations that provide people with so little compensation that the amount is in poverty, as well as extra income and compensation are reduced, thus keeping people in poverty. Iceland, by the way, is contracted to ensure the economic and social rights of the people of the country under the UN International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights. I would be interested to hear if a minister thinks we are fulfilling our duties according to that contract, and if not, how the minister intends to strengthen the economic and social rights of the Icelanders and to make sure that people have equal opportunities here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u67	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answers as well as the sharp ones. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for her inner moments and comments in this discussion. I am glad to hear that a minister is concerned with me about the status of a housing market. I really hope that this brief conversation we have here will be included in that big discussion, for it is very important that is very important to me that we approach the housing and housing markets from a very different point of view because it is a very wide and complex and indeed a difficult problem that many face, since housing is one of the most precious things each individual and every person has. I want to start by celebrating the first answer at the highest. Ministers that there is a policy in the building and hope that it will succeed even at the next month's and the highest. Minister for good works there. Let me ask you: Is the Minister willing to inform us here and now about what the holidays will be? What is to be expected there? For the second question, I don't find the highest pleasure. A minister in that area would answer no, but he did well to appreciate how he approached that matter, and it can be said that the system may not be right to discriminate against people according to where they have their reward. But at the same time, I'd like to point out that because of their high drug costs, pensioners, microenergy pensioners, are very likely. [[The president calls.]] That's why I feel that the system has to take this into account. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to suggest to the minister that there is another way to cope with the challenge, of course, is to improve the improvement and thus meet those with high drug costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-20-44.u68	I want to thank you again for your time. In a very short answer, I would feel very important to remember that while discussing the welfare issues, when it comes to discussing poverty in this country and the opportunities there for people to submit to them, I feel very important to remember that even though we are always supposed to be working on better, we can also thank you for the fact that our position is on all the standards of immense strength. That's a good thing. We experience a very strong economic situation as a nation and wherever we live as we look at these factors, we see that there has never been a higher level of money, there has never been more pay when you see a Giin body and when you compare yourself with other countries. The buypower of an older citizen has never been higher, thanks to that. rapidly improving or stronger pension system and its interaction with social security. Social security spending was increased by the fact that I'm holding one twenty-three billion between 2016-2017. Clearly, then, we are adding a considerable amount of money to support poor people. We should always have ambitions to do better, to fix the system where the offenders may be, etc. It may also be noted that not all that has been done well over the years need to be torn down, which I feel has not been done in speeches at all. Senators, but sometimes I like to talk like, and even The weekend's discussion gave evidence of this, but all is impossible here. Although it is always so, unfortunately, that people struggle with poverty, we know that this group is now less than ever before. [[The president calls.]] All evidence suggests that much of him is temporarily dealing with poverty and that opportunities to increase his income are certainly there. [[The president calls.]] This is very important. Of course, we should keep ever in mind how we can correct this situation.
