ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for the 1st. Smoke. So, Brunsur the Brynjar of Níelsson can't attend next week. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district, Bessí Jóhannsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, 1986, and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u2	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health requesting every request to give a written answer to a letter asking for this request. 353, for the use of antipsychotics and hypnotics in nursing homes, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and for inquiries. 358, about long-lost children, from Lára Arnardóttir. Borist has received a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 359, for the import of raw meat from Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u3	Madam President. Last week, I wished for a special discussion at the highest level. Social Ministry on poverty and measures against poverty. V.E.G. A minister took advantage of that discussion. I was asked to ask you questions because the program might be scheduled for this week, but now I am told that this special discussion is not going to be a part of the program or any other special discussion. I wonder, Madam President, if it is really so that at last already the highest. By means of a government, of course, on the last day of a donation, as has always been true in spite of the wonderful promises of something else, should all other matters be removed, or does the head of the council not want to discuss matters of poverty? This is a huge political issue, Mrs. President, and I must be surprised if it is not to be allowed to set up this matter or any other special discussion that the representatives of the government stand have requested, probably on important political issues, because at last, when the government moves, it is so urgent to establish its affairs. Madam President. I make serious comments to this and insist that special discussions be expected this week, as in other weeks. It's just not okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u4	A respectable president. I have to come up and say something. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, said that it is highly unlikely that there will be no special discussion this week. This is the Generalist seminar where we formally discuss various matters, not just the government's primes at their convenience, but how important it is that we have a discussion on other important matters. That the government has finally decided or had the opportunity to handle some matter on its part does not mean that the rest of the council's daily activities and the role of this seminar is not being carried out. Similarly, I would like to call attention to the fact that some people are young. Porta's members have waited a long time to find out and have a place to say. Minister. V.E.G. Ministers canceled participation at this meeting today, even though I see them sitting here in the hall. I make a note that we have to wait so long to get answers. Some questions are only more unpleasant than others, as some have. Evidently a special discussion, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u5	Madam President. Not quite unexpected, then I'd like to agree with them why. Councilmen who have spoken before. I don't like to be given room for special discussions of the government position, so I don't talk about this particular subject that has been much better during the last days and week, and it's very important that we handle it. I find it disrespectful to the large group of poor people not to take a little time. Of course, we can reason with this discussion that when we talk about the financial program, nothing is really under way. That is why we would have needed special discussions, and I insist that it be scheduled for the week.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u6	Madam President. I agree with what others have. Councilmen have said about the lack of organization here. This is really interesting, not to put things on the schedule, especially since I've been here many times and asked to see the schedule ahead. We've said that when we get it ahead of us, we're totally inaccessible. But now, despite the fact that the program is not available in general, we find ourselves in a hurry to get information about the team ahead of time. So once we've prepared, we're just out of the way because the government's gonna have to get some of its own business. We need to have some kind of forethought in this matter, and we must be able to trust what we are learning about what is to be discussed in the near future. In that case, I refer both to special discussions and to the highest level of inquiries. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u7	A respectable president. Right away. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is asked to submit emphasis to the council's office for the planned discussion on Monday at the highest court office. Social Ministry on Poverty, we assume that it means something. Then comes the day when the decision is made on one side. The president has to cancel the preparatory program with a view to allowing more space for the week's program. A respectable president. This has the advantage of the president's actually drawing the balance of the administrative element in making sure that it is not a matter that is uncomfortable for the government to discuss publicly in the leading of the Passover permit, i.e. the disgrace in the modern world of poverty. I contend with a respectable president to address this discussion, one would be a disgrace to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u8	A respectable president. On February 9th. I asked you a question to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the passage of election law, but there's nothing to answer to her yet. This is the third Monday in a row where I have announced that I am ready to discuss this matter, and the Minister of Justice has since canceled his arrival. Third in a row. Then I hear that the election laws that come to change are about to be ready. It would be very strange if there were to be a bill of all the changes in election law before the discussion on that subject, because part of the discussion is about how to coordinate between the parties on the contribution of election laws. I wish for the highest. Minister of Justice will answer my inquiry orally as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u9	A respectable president. I have to say exactly as it is for me to think it's the best. Government and what. The government doesn't start off well. Perhaps there were some hopes that this would be a different practice here, at least many people have a sledgehammer. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers spoke in such a way before entering the Ministers' chairs that everything would change, but the attitude toward the Council is actually a disgrace. We wait until the last minute to pile things up, and then the Council shall sit and stand at ease. Overseers are right to do so. People shrink back from having special discussions about matters that concern all of us in order to the highest degree. A government can present its affairs. It is not as if in the financial program we are now discussing, for example. the big problems of poverty in Icelandic society. This may be understandable if there were solutions, but it is not so good and failure to discuss this matter is shameful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u10	V.E.G. President. I would like to state that it is far from good practice to have started with a process and work with a specific discussion and then unassigned completely. But there's something else I'd like to point out. The one here asked a question on the basis of the strategy, its progress and its status as a member of the national, transport and rural government. He has not yet been able to answer that inquiry. I'll call for it. Are these acceptable practices? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u11	Madam President. It is certainly disappointing to not be allowed to discuss here in special discussions on the subject of poverty in Iceland because, as we know, the subject that has been very much in the recent discussion and is directly related to the financial program we are going to take up here. I must express great disappointment that we cannot share our views and that we are not allowed to have the highest viewpoint. Governments to this important issue while important discussions take place on the financial agenda. This is something directly related. It may not be surprising that this is off schedule, since it is like the rest of us. It is no doubt that members of the council have introduced themselves very uncomfortable for the government to discuss poverty when it is so poorly that they have a financial program. It is possible that she does not want the discussion to be completely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u12	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen must show the highest order. The president of some fair people in these matters. I believe that in no two-month period in the council, a special discussion was as frequent as the last two months. I think it is a search to see that members of the Parliament so readily communicated their views in the manner that specific discussions are taking place. I'm also thinking about what to do. Congress officials do not have to complain that they have not had time to speak here at the council. They have had ample time to talk about their concerns. This affects the program of the council. It has, for example. making it possible that there is more to be in this week than it might have been if the last week had been a little better discussion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u13	A respectable president. True, there has been quite a lot of recent discussions. But this is simply because the government has had nothing else to talk about. The government situation is as good as having held the respect of the council for the past few months, so to speak, simply because the government has not been able to agree on the issues it is going to make. We're here to see old ghosts from the last term that's going on right now. Why could this issue not be brought about sooner? A respectable president. The lack of organization on the part of the government does not create an emergency on our part. We want to maintain the respect of the council when it comes, for example. to discuss nationally important issues such as, for example, The business of poverty is. Although we have had many special discussions simply because the government could not go - I'm not going to say the word I thought - it couldn't agree on what cases should be handled by the government until now it's not our problem. [[The president calls.]] We want to continue to receive special talks on the program, no matter how many special discussions we have received in the past two months to maintain the respect of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u14	Madam President. I have to agree with my colleagues. It doesn't mean anything to be rude. Yes, there have been a lot of special discussions because there have been no other cases to settle the government. It has been most fitting for the president to set up a specific discussion on the program. Now that this is not convenient, because the government is suddenly in full possession, a special discussion is to be taken over. I thought the President was supposed to be the president of the council, not the president of the government. It must have to be taken into account that poverty is a subject that burns on all of us. People suffer. It's about life and death. Children suffer in the community, and we are to discuss this now. This is the most important issue we can discuss right now, especially in view of the fact that we are about to take up the financial and financial policy of the government until the next five years. I don't think it's acceptable, and I think the president should show that he's the president of the council, not the president of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u15	Madam President. I truly agree with my colleagues in the opposition. I don't really understand the arrangement of not having a special discussion, even though the government has something to do with it. This week, there has been an arrangement set up in the financial agenda program, which can be good, but there is also a need to get on schedule, not just what is acceptable for the government. I urge the press to specifically study the financial program and the sensuous presentation, since it does not address the subject that has been encouraged to arrive on the program, i.e. that we're going into poverty. Poor society is very serious. And it has been described as why a number of special discussions have been here in the past few weeks. I have to agree with the republic president who said, "The problem, i.e. Poor things are there, trying to deal with them even if that is not the case. We can do this by talking to a minister who has even a ministerial servant. ... abouthowit will be arranged for the government's financial policy until the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u16	Madam President. I thank the chairman of the government's council for a touching speech. All I could do was tear my eyes because I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson described the state of affairs here at the council. All of us know that the reason we have had so many special discussions and members of Congress is that other matters have not been available and we have not wanted to have a meeting here at the General Assembly. However, it is totally unacceptable and incorruption that at the end of the hearing from the highest level. A government is being swept aside by special discussions. I have to now say that if these matters had been organized, we would have been using this time to form a special discussion of poverty, which I believe is a significantly greater demand for the public than to listen to disputes and disagreements as to how to conduct the council program. [[Up front.]] I love the highest. The president and I trust that she will direct this last week to agree that this discussion and others will come to the fore. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u17	Madam President. First, I'd like to say the last speaker, please. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It would have been possible to talk about poverty now as we discuss the President's conference board. Of course, one special discussion will take only 34 minutes for all classes to participate in it. It is true that during the past few weeks, many special discussions have been planned. I like it. In fact, I like it, regardless of the fact that it was because there was nothing other than a senator's case. We too are to be discussing matters of the present time, and poverty is indeed such a matter. Therefore, I feel overwhelmed if this special discussion is not to be conducted now, preferably today, but at least this week, as well as taking more special discussions this week. Like I say, it won't take very long, but it's important for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u18	Madam President. It's our birthday today. It's been a year since Panama documents appeared to the nation, and we were told that there is a group of rich people who can't see the need to throw money in a tax field rather than pay for the combination. It is a cold reality that we stand here and cannot discuss poverty, the other side of this coin, how we can use our drinking in order to bring relief to those who are walking their feet in society. It would have been nice to discuss here either a tax bill or poverty rather than a government administration that is too late to proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u19	A respectable president. The puny defense will be worse than that of the Great Cub of Men. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of a year. It's a little vivid to the attitude that I feel is at the cove. Headquarters and the highest. Councilmen to the Generals. There has been no discussion of government issues here because they simply haven't arrived. It's kind of like this: Well, guys, now you've got to play, talk about what you want to talk about, and this thing that doesn't matter, it's all in you guys. Now we, the big people, have all our business. Now, get your things out of the way, we've got some serious business to do. What's our business, the government of the rich people, poverty in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u20	Madam President. I'm starting to notice a certain treacle at the time of the accident. The members of the board of directors, especially in the middle of the year. The members of the Independence Party who prey on us members of our minority and tell us to tune our words, refrain us from saying things because of our own shy response. An example of this was found in the words of a man. paritaprevir Empresses, the Brynjar of Níelsson, who had in mind taking the report on the personal development of the Bank of Living and doing so before attending the council discussion, chose to ask us to adjust some of the statements, since we would not have had enough time to study the matter. He had in his hand to give us that time. Likewise, word spreads. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, gives a witness when he asks us to adjust to the highest degree. His government hasn't had time to do his work so far, and now let's just not like it here in a bunch of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u21	A respectable president. I can't let go of any of these exhilarating words directed to me. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, and concerning a inquiry that has been on my table for a few days. I can tell you what. On the contrary, I feel that I have not had the opportunity to take that matter on the program and to have an upbuilding conversation. The senator for the election legislation that I believe is important to be done here before and if the election law is taken into account and changed to some extent. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned that it had passed three Mondays since this inquiry. That's right. But I have to say, I think it's overly sensitive on the part of my life. The senator said she has not been on the program for this brief period of time. But I have no intention but to discuss these matters as quickly as possible. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Elders must take into account the programs and the needs of others. Senators when it comes to conversation in a council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u22	Madam President. I agree with this with the time that will take special discussion. Just over half an hour would have been replaced by the President's conference board. If things do not change, people will remain happy. There will be a meeting here after the end of a query meeting. He's got 17 cases on him. Of these, 13 are EU consequences. It's now very much of what's being brought here on the table, a change in the privacy room, a change in revision. It's all a minor case, except maybe one thing. That's not what's postponing the council here. Those issues will undoubtedly cause a measure of reasonableness to slip through. A respectable president. Special discussion is important because it clearly identifies a minister's policy as to the case. [[The president calls.]] I have to agree again and say that we have a financial program and policy that doesn't cover these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u23	Madam President. I've taken what I've got as bad as I can. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir said we don't want a meeting here at the council. I totally agree with that. We must bear in mind that there has already been a meeting in this week unless there was a meeting called a professor, a committee with virtually no committee meeting, and there was a repeated meeting. It was simply called aavika to hide that there were not enough cases coming up from the highest level. A government in order for us to have something to do here at the council. Now we're past the deadline. Friday, when new issues can arise. As a result, I compiled what had come from each minister. It wasn't much, Madam President, it wasn't much at all. Some ministers have returned exactly zero primes. Zero. Think about it. This means that we can totally look forward to a meeting in the future if the less part's labour case is taken up to no greater extent than it has now been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u24	Madam President. I do not envy the need to organize the work here when the government presents a case on the last due day after having had an empty schedule for weeks. I'd like to give you one example of how to work in the Board of Directors. V.E.G. As a minister sits here, he declares to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson that it has all been offered and improved by the Ministry's work program. I am here with a request for a man-salter operation program originally submitted on December 21, reassigned January 24, and it was postponed to February 13th to make an answer to the council. Now, on February 9, where the request was requested until March 6th, to submit this inquiry. Today is April 3rd. This inquiry, which is available for 15 days, has been for the council between two and a half and three and a half months depending on the day in which you aim. [[The president calls.]] Is it just hope that you're a little surprised at this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u25	A respectable president. According to Congress, a minister usually has about two weeks to answer. Then you can ask for some time, and I have a few questions, though, to a minister who remains the majority of them. It's just under two months since I asked. I said that over the last three Mondays I would have expected to get an answer and to ask for it orally. I had an understanding that this would not be so. There wasn't a minister in the country, was foreign because of the Generals' work, but for the last three Mondays I've expected a talk about oral inquiry with a minister. It has failed for all those times. I apologize for wearing jeans up in a punk, nobody noticed last time, and nobody died.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u26	To answer, Budget and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u27	Madam President. In recent years, significant discussions have been made about the financial policy of society, after the Supreme Court. On April 1, which may be an appropriate date, a minister declared in an interview with the Finic Times that the current situation is inaccessible. Now all of us in this room are aware of the Supreme Court's position. A minister who is also the president of the political class, what position that class and the minister have as a politician toward the currency. But when it's the highest. In the power of his office, a minister declares that the position of the money and currency is incorruption. A second matter is that a minister is not just a politician, he is also a government official. As a result, the highest power runs. Prime Minister up to his hands and feet to return the words to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget, but the headline for the Finic Times News is by permission of Presidential News: It's all right. The headline for Bloomberg, the highest. The prime minister is an interview: Iceland Won't Peg Currency for Foreseeable Future, PM Says. " I wonder, " I think it's the highest. ' The Secretary of Economics and Economics to his claim and supreme. The international prime minister increases the credibility of the Icelandic economy? We have had a lot of talk about credibility in view of our building up after a difficult crisis. How exactly does it count? Minister for these things makes you more credible? Does he consider such statements to be compatible with his position as minister of financial and economic matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u28	A respectable president. Witnessing to the French Times. It is true that my comments are quoted. The context of the reviews was this: I was asked, most likely about ten days ago, perhaps longer because the reporter has spoken to me twice, and the first time this money conference committee was being assigned: What will be the job of the Committee? I explained that the Committee's work is in accordance with a government contract to find a money policy that would lead to a constant success in the Icelandic government and what ways you could go to that end. Then I even mentioned. that the projection had pointed to the currency advice in the pre-election campaign. That the Icelandic crown could be linked to large currency. The people who would accept them would be the American dollars, the British pound, or the euro, and I believed that the euro was there at all the most affordable. Or it might be to link the crown to a basket of currency. I also mentioned that it was a terrible idea to associate the crown with coins, such as. The Norwegian crown and canadadol, as some have suggested. This is one of the things that will likely be considered in this committee. I'm not making any comments that Prime Minister says this is not imminent. The committee has not concluded yet. When it makes a decision, we will process it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u29	Madam President. I asked the highest. Minister if he believed that such statements require a reply from the highest level. Prime Minister, Minister of the United States. Secretary of finance, would have been enough to increase the credibility of the Icelandic economy. V.E.G. A minister comes up here and says he doesn't comment on the ultimate. Prime Minister objects to him. Now it's so great. A minister is not only a representative of a certain political policy, he is also a government representative, government official, speaking into a world where it is important to maintain the credibility of the Icelandic economy. We have noticed that foreign investors are standing, for example. not exactly in line after buying Icelandic banks. Then it is important for those in charge to have a problem. V.E.G. In this interview, the secretary of finance says that the situation is undefeated. So he has actually given his conclusion to the money conference committee already appointed with a pomp and fine and should have made extensive consultations with all members of the body. The current situation is inaccessible. [[The president calls.]] But I ask them again: Does he believe that their office of ministers increases the credibility of the Icelandic economy? [[The president calls.]] And he believes it will increase the credibility of the Icelandic economy if the highest. Economic and economic ministers need to explain their words specifically after they appear in a foreign medium?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u30	Madam President. I can gladly repeat here that when I was talking to the reporter, three weeks ago or so, I was explaining what this money conference should do and what it would look at. In itself, I can have no responsibility for the way that men interpret it or tell about it. I've explained it here and explained in a magazine interview how it happened. It is known, however, that not everyone agrees on this money policy. I know it's the highest. Prime Minister does not have exactly the same emphasis as I do. But that actually proves that the Independence Party is not a branch from the tower, as some seem to think.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u31	A respectable president. I want to ask them what they say. Prime Minister, whom he had dropped here during an unprepared question period for about 30 minutes ago. Two weeks in which the word was pronounced, by permission of the President: There are no special plans for selling state property in Iceland and U.S.A. and U.S.A. Then, during a conference discussion on financial policy for five years, it turns out that there is still a special plan to sell shares in Iceland banks and Banks. With President's permission, the Chairman said what? Fundament Committee, what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, answering: ▪ Actually, financialism is a major factor in how we manage to rid financial resources. As a result, the answer is: Yes, we are going to release the government's financial resources during the period of policy. A respectable president. How could one day be without any special plans - an unscrupulous plan or a supreme one? Secretary of finance trying to dance around it in order to speak to the surfer each time, whether the banks are private or not. Is this bank to be private? Is it not a plan of finance, is it not a plan, is it not about where we're headed? I have to ask the highest. Secretary of finance again whether there is any plans to sell the property of the state, of the country's property, of Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands. Are they there, available, or prepared in this regard? It's the highest. I don't agree with the fact that economicism must then be considered a plan, preparatory work, where financial policy for the next five years seems to be based on selling banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u32	Madam President. I happen to think that I have answered that question four times in a discussion about financial policy, and I am happy to do so one more time. In the financial policy, government income is expected to be on the annual basis of about one year. 35 billion bucks. These incomes may come from interest payments, special remunerations, or purchases. The pay of banks this year, which the State has in all respects, is over 35 billion dollars. and it is not unlikely that they would grow that much in the coming years, so there is no special pressure on the sale of banks. When I said it here that there were no plans to sell these things at the bank now, and I can deal with it, I've explained it and I'll repeat it: I haven't contacted anyone, I haven't prepared a description of the bank sale, and no one's contacted me and described interest in having these banks. I've told you that when we sell them, we're supposed to do it in good terms, do it by the rules that you're comfortable with, and in an open, transparent process. I believe that's very important. I think it's important that when we sell the banks this time, we don't repeat the mistakes made when the banks were sold last time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u33	A respectable president. We are talking about financial policy, which is largely based on how we manage to pay off the government funds. It says, with the permission of the president, in the members of the leading section: To a large extent, the subsidence of the State's debt is determined by the way it sells these assets. We're talking about a policy based on selling things that are not plans to sell but that are just ideas. This is the basis for a full financial policy until five years old. A respectable president. I don't understand this plow in the words of the highest. Secretary of finance when it comes to selling banks or not selling banks. I don't understand how he can justify promoting a five - year financial policy that is largely based on it, according to the words coming from the wind. The budget, where the Independence Party holds the presiding position, is intended to sell banks. Then he comes and says: "Well, maybe there's some remuneration, which is just a drop in the ocean for what we'd get for selling banks. [[The president calls.]] I just don't understand the half of it. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand how he can come here and say there's no special plans, and then there's just a very special plan to sell banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u34	Madam President. A drop in the ocean may not be a very precise unit, but 35 billion per year are somewhat accurate, and more than 35 billion are payday from banks. In other words, the bank's income is more than just what is expected during financial policy periods. Even if we didn't sell them, we would have met 100% of the required goals, i.e. spending 35 billion each year earning money of these assets in payment of debt. Well, that's about as simple as that. I can come and explain it a few more times. But there it is. [[Up front.]] This is how - we can fully discuss that the government's tenant policy has been submitted too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u35	A respectable president. If all the king's feet had their own will, that beast would probably be extinct. Thanks to our Creator, it is designed to coordinate the birth of our feet. The Creator, however, had nothing to do with the formation of that government. The counsellers and the rulers now run out and south, every one according to his own ways, and there is no rule of folly. We know that Bob Dylan, Beyoncé, Kristinn Sigmundsson and Björk are all great singers but would probably not be good together in a chorus, at least not if they made their own laws and chose the laws themselves. Hv. Councilmen disagree on basics. Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson, and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson about the timing of the bank sale. Nichole Leigh Mosty and Kristján Þór Júlíusson about the 25-year rule. Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir and Braunur Níelsson in an investigation of the privateization of the Lands Bank. The Teitur of Björn Einarsson and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir of the Sea Road Policy. Jón Valdimarsson and Óli Kárason Kárson for EU application. Páll Magnússon and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson in the agricultural business. Andersen's sails and Fearrs Proppé's business of the health system. Björt and Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir on terms of resurrection agreements of great industry. Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir and Guðlaugur Þórðarson for the EEA Convention. And finally, Þorsteinn Víglundsson and Sigríður Andersen of the same pay-off. I could keep going. Last year's meeting with the Office of Jehovah's Witnesses, the prime minister, said, with permission of the president: ▪ The study assumes that the next year the currency of Iceland's currency will be a dollar. And in a recent interview with Surra, the secretary of finance said, with the permission of a president: However, there has been no doubt in my mind that Iceland and I were filming euro. It's the highest. Secretary of finance satisfied with government foothold? Has the inconsistencies made matters late and ill? Is the minister over his head credible to contribute five years of financialism now when the management teams disagree in principle, and the right or left brain whales cannot agree on what money to use?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u36	Madam President. It's always nice to hear the language coming out of your mouth. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, as it is, with fictional illustrations, and a man rolls over the spider, walking in various directions, and tumbling her feet. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator says there are three categories in the government, and they disagree on many matters. That's normal. However, they agree on certain issues, and this is a government business. It is not unusual for groups of people who held something before elections and had different policies that have not changed after elections. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. On the other hand, there are agreements on the outcome of certain issues. That's what the government is about. I know that not all minority groups agree on all matters. [[Up front.]] It's just normal. There are four groups in a smaller section. And even within classes, not everyone agrees, even in relatively small members of Congress, there are different emphasis on the various issues. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. That's how communication is. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u37	Madam President. The reason I took an example of the spider is because I did not know how to name the octopus here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, earlier in the same interview, it was said that it was the highest. Secretary of finance that he missed that there was no better cooperation with the smaller parts than there really was. So I ask, "What's the most important thing?" Secretary of finance designed to make this good cooperation? If nothing, what will he do? Or does he intend to go to Erlingur Ólafsson of the insectist and learn something about the birth of his feet? Maybe he's just gonna trust in the smaller parts here at the Council to get the government back a couple of times during the election season?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u38	Madam President. I certainly said that. And I've said that before I sat at the General Assembly that I thought it was very important that we considered not only the greater and the smaller parts of the Council but that it was viewed as a convention of 63 people where everyone could contribute. I've had several conversations with why. A senator for my benefit and satisfaction. I've had quite a few meetings with the heads of the minorities, where we've been discussing certain major issues. I think we could do more of that. I think it would be good for us to be more diligent in putting a matter on the table and saying, "Can't we get together on this side and on the other side?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u39	A respectable president. A financial and economic minister likes to talk to foreign media and has recently gone to some of these interviews in which he presents the government's policy in various matters, in order to form the money policy. But we don't like the rest of this stuff very much, because it's a disgrace to Iceland's credibility. During this weekend's Finic Times interview, financial minister says it's undefeated for Iceland to maintain its own floating coin a few days after capitalizing. This statement is quite remarkable. The situation today is the highest. Secretary of finance offering a complete adventure in terms of money policy, and it seems to be the highest. A minister intends to speak down the currency of international readings. The interview with the FT is so amazing that I was wondering if there could be some extra depth in it, if it was the highest. For example, a minister of finance would be making himself up to some kind of national emissary system that works in such a way that when a dollar is strong, he will just show up himself and talk it down and when he is ill he will come up and talk it up. I'm wondering if Iceland's Secret Bank is aware of this new instrument of the Minister of Money. A respectable president. Now a three-man projector has been appointed to reevaluate Iceland's money policy. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and Economic Ministers: 1st Is it not a more professional approach to wait for the results of the task management before the secretary expresses himself in this way? 2. The government officials disagree completely with the future policy of the nation, so I ask if it's the highest. The minister of finance feels honest with the nation to sit in a government where there is so much difference in opinion about one of the national interests of the nation, such as money policy. 3. If the highest. A minister of finance was misunderstood, and his words were taken out of context, would it not be wise to correct this misunderstanding, as embarrassing as it is today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u40	Madam President. It's weird to hear what you're talking about. So a senator makes the shoes cease to have opinions as soon as they are in the government. Of course I still have my opinions. I feel the same way now that I had before the election. I haven't hidden anything from it. I've thought it would be better for Iceland to have another money policy, have a policy where there was more balance. I've believed that it would not be successful for the export branches to have a currency for the euro at 160 k. One day 140 k. the next and then it goes down to $112, then it goes up to 124. and swing back and forth, so that those who do business in this coin never know the day after how much they get for themselves. I have no comment that others may have other opinions about it. That's democracy. That's how communication becomes. There are, of course, some instructions that are given to work management on the setting of the money policy. The main guidelines are those in the administration covenant, i.e. that we are going to create a financial policy where the Icelandic gangs are more stable. It may well be. A senator is opposed to such a policy, but this is government policy, this is the policy we have achieved. I'm not ashamed of her. I'm very proud of her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u41	A respectable president. I don't know if the U.S.A. has noticed, but I didn't get one answer. No answer. I don't think it's acceptable. Maybe it's that troublemaker already. A minister is talking to the foreign media, so he has a great deal of difficulty answering the questions presented here. A respectable president. The reason I asked the highest part. A minister of honesty is that, as the situation exists today, he is very unlikely to show what the framework of money policy should be accomplished. That is why I ask him: " Does he feel honest about being in such a government when he is having such a hard time reaching his goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u42	Madam President. Yes, it is indeed honest and good to be in the government and to fight for its goals. This is to be done by politicians, and they too are to fight for their goals and be honest even if they are not in government for some time. So it's just our Senate case. I think it's very normal that we talk about how money policy is supposed to be. There are other things that we are going to change. If everything I thought would have to change, I wouldn't have to be in politics anymore, then my job would be over. It's not like that. That's why it's the most honest job I can take now to be in politics and fight for my less policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u43	A respectable president. I must continue in the same area, for no answers have come from the highest level. Secretary of finance. It may well have been that the minister had an error or a different understanding during the interview. You can't put it on, it can happen. But that's the conclusion, a respectable president, the highest. Ministers that the main entry, the headline, the coverage of the interview, was simply wrong, that in all the main steps, it was wrong. Minister? Is he not, however, the opinion expressed during the interview that it is incorruption to keep a floating dollar in the long term? It is a very strange position, as it was clear to a reporter who wrote the interview, that a few days after the flagning, the national financial minister will arrive and announce that she will not be able to run for long. This is really like taking a ship in a slipp, repairing it, and when it is sead again declaring it over that it can hardly float long, this ship. There would not be a fall for passengers or employees on the ship. A respectable president. So I reiterate my question: Was this all wrong? After a nice tour of a dog. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson earlier appeared in reply to the highest degree. Secretary of finance that the government would agree on a number of matters, even though it disagrees about many things - but I just can't think of anything. Of what does this government agree? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Is this the main conclusion that she agrees that foreign hedges are right to sell themselves to Arion? So I'll add my previous questions, topmost. President: is the highest. The secretary of finance does not believe that if today, as appears, the hedge fund sold itself to the price of the government's price to intervene in, it does not seem to be the highest rate. Ministers for State to do so and use their premium at the bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u44	Madam President. I find it interesting to have the underlying opinion of the question, whether it is unacceptable that we live in the present state. Is it adequate for a dollar to float up and down like a boulder? Is it acceptable for a company to receive a much lower price for its products than was previously obtained? Is it acceptable that fishermen now receive only a fraction of the money they previously received, even if the price of foreign coins is the same? Is it acceptable that the services we are building are constantly selling at one price and then getting a lot less money at the end of the day? Is it acceptable for a national industry company to live under the constantly lowering of the prices of the rivals? I say, "No, it's not satisfactory, it's unacceptable." That's my opinion. That may be the problem. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson and Lilja Alfreðsdóttir believe that this is acceptable. That's not my opinion. Regarding the question of whether it is proper and normal for banks to sell themselves to the bank, I have to say that in the past government, these rules were set in place, and I understand that those rules were carried out. I have asked the SEC about these demands, and I expect to know the answer to that inquiry soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u45	A respectable president. I thought it was a speech of the highest. Minister here, something familiar. You see, once before, I've heard exactly the same argument as it was at Erich Honecker, leader of East Germany, when he explained that it was completely unacceptable to the currency, East German target, move up and down, nobody knew what it would be for the next few days. That is why there would be a need for rules about the cost of the currency. I think the highest. A minister is knowledgeable enough to know how that arrangement worked. To hear here the Chairman of a party, which has been counted as the right category, some sort of liberal right category, proclaim the East German policy of money comes as a surprise to me as the least I can say. A respectable president. About Arion Bank. There were rules regarding how to return to the State the value of the bank. It is simply being wrong with those rules. It's under the roof. Ministers it acceptable? Or does he intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u46	Madam President. It's interesting to hear what you're saying. A senator covers gang policy in East Germany. It is also fascinating to compare the discussion with his previous plans to pick up a Norwegian dollar when we were supposed to get 2 of you. Billions of loans from Norway eight years ago or so, and when we had to record canadadols a few years later. What was that policy? Should they attach the crown to some foreign coin? It was considered quite practical for the Icelanders. I have said several times that it is a very foolish course to pick up a canadadol or a Norwegian crown. [[On the other hand, what is your course?]] That's what I said to this foreign medium.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u47	President. I'm asking the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers in this challenge period for organic farming. First of all, if a Minister believes that organic farming has sufficient support in the agricultural policy and then on the other hand, what the significance of it is that organic farming can have for the climate targets established by Iceland. Indeed, the support of organic farming has been greatly increased in a new livestock contract that is a source of satisfaction. But better, if it's enough. The nations most important to encourage increased organic production have, in first place, set a goal, that, or so much of the agricultural production, will become organic, e.g. 20% by 2020, and followed with handsome support. These include Denmark and Austria. In fact, Danes have recently decided to aim for all Danish agriculture in 2025. The main reason is significant pollution of groundwater, mainly due to the use of artificial applications, so that unpolluted groundwater is no longer available in the country. Other key reasons for increasing domestic share of bioproduction are the growing demand for organic food and the substantial lack of the most common species, requiring the introduction of organic vegetables in much of the year. For example, after the harvest is completed in the fall, organic carrots, cools, potatoes, cabbages are available. These are species that can easily be cultivated and stored well, and therefore could be held in well - being late in winter or until spring if there were enough of them produced here within the country. Since the question of the potential for organic farming to have special significance for Iceland's climate targets, we can note that the procedure that would probably be most effective for carbon binding in Iceland is just what organic farming is. Two studies are available, which I would love to share with the highest degree. Ministers in this area, while organic farming, are the most sustainable and environmental forms of agriculture. The action that would, therefore, probably produce most of the results would be organic farming. These studies show that if all farming on earth became organic, it alone would bind all existing man - made carbon emissions. The process of organic farming is in short order, so the greenhouse gases and building materials of the vegetation are exactly carbon compounds. However, in modern culture with chemicals, the breakdown of these compounds, such as vegetation, becomes a significant release of carbon into the atmosphere. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on these two matters, which says of organic agriculture in the Regulation and then organic agriculture as a participants in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, on the basis of the expected review of a livestock contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u48	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Savvarsdótti Svavarsdóttir for this inquiry. This is an important element and offers opportunities for advancement and high value growth in agriculture. Sadly, though, I have not received proper attention. Looking specifically at the design of organic farming, it can be said that the rules for organic agricultural production have required updating over a long period of time. In the United States, organic agrienvironment schemes and markings have been in force for 15 years. This Regulation adopted the 1991 European Union rules in accordance with the EEA Convention. As a result, they are nearly three decades old. In 2009, the EU was followed by new and more detailed rules. Recently, these rules were recorded in the EEA Convention and are expected to be effective in May. So the same rules apply to the production, certification and labelling of bioproducts in Iceland and Europe. This is a positive report to Icelandic consumers, where the agreement improves information flow and monitoring. In the long run, the change is also positive for Icelandic producers. For a short time, the change means that farmers who have practiced organic farming by older regulations will not receive organic validation for their products. This is also accompanied by a set adjustment cost. Yet, it is clear that greater interests are involved in having international recognition than home witnessing, which compromises weaker demands. In support of the government's bioproduction process, it is based on a framework made by the Icelandic government at Iceland's Farming Association last year. The Convention says that the main focus in organic farming is to investigate market-based grounds for organic products and how well specific soils and production are suitable for the adaptation of organic farming. The deal goes to about 33.5 million. K. every year, on average, for the next ten years. It is my opinion that governments have not paid sufficient attention to these matters over the past few years, that the instruments of organic agrienvironment production have not been looked at at at at at at at at all. Then I have in mind market opportunities as well as environmental considerations. I will take advantage of the fact that in the next few years, all of Iceland's food policy, food production, food security, food culture, and commercial marketing of Icelandic food will be implemented. I also believe that targeted policy on organic farming must become an integral part of such holistic policies, including because of the ideological value of the image that Icelandic food has among foreign consumers. It's an image I believe we should promote and promote. I have consulted these opinions with the farmers' judges, now the last meeting of the district prayer of sheep in the past week. I sense that it has great interest and enthusiasm. In this light, over the next few weeks, I plan to appoint a growing organic agricultural population in Iceland. I think it's a long time. Like what? A senator came into the world, and other countries set high goals and were successful. [[The president calls.]] For example, my cousin, Dani, was involved in this matter. Such results do not come naturally. [[The president calls.]] It is the product of vision, clear goals, and follow-up. V.E.G. President. I thought I had five minutes, but I'm sorry I didn't answer both questions. [[President (TheE): The President is requesting respect for that. There's some confusion here at the clock.]] . This veneer entrance in a man was unnecessary, half the answer, I cut it short. Thank you very much. President, I'm assuming I have two more minutes. Then comes the second question. A senator, of what significance a minister believes that organic goals can have for the climate goals set out in Iceland. In the United States, therefore, the implementation of the 2010 action programme on emissions reductions to 2020 and on the application for intensive climate change measures is under way. A senator knows a lot better than I do. A program presents 16 projects that will help combat climate change. Although there is no mention of organic farming in these projects, one task is to climate-based agriculture, which will provide a way of reduction of agricultural emissions by the government and the national community of Iceland. In April 2016, the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister signed an agreement on climate-based agriculture, along with Environment and Resource Ministers, and Iceland's Farmers Association. In accordance with the agreed agreement, the Environment and Resource Management Board is aimed at working on practical solutions for agriculture to reduce emissions. In October 2016, the Department of Agriculture reported on the request of a project on the analysis of greenhouse gas emissions from Icelandic agriculture. The task management is now working to shape suggestions for the guidance, including cooperation with several different habitats by housing on ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but the aim of cooperation is to provide practical and practical ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture. In this discussion it is also important to distinguish between organic species, i.e. products requiring certification, on the other hand, sustainable use and development. These include the lack of organic production according to EU regulations. However, the marine route places a high priority on sustainable use and aims at reducing emissions by 40% in 2030 compared to 1990. When it comes to organic farming, there is no analysis of the importance of increasing organic production in this country as climate targets are viewed. The aim of the organic product policy is to establish a sustainable management system for agriculture that recognizes nature's system and cycle and also uses energy and natural resources in a responsible way. This refers to water, soil, organic matter, and air. One of the principles is that the use of external resources should be limited to production. Finally, research suggests that treatment of soils in organic vegetation results in more carbon binding than all of these factors have a positive effect on our European climate targets. This is my very good reason to establish a clear policy on the development of organic farming here on the land as I could about here. Surely we look for ways to maintain our international commitment to climate. This too is in context and in harmony with what is stated in the government covenant. For this, there is a rich will. I will allow these views to be guided by agri-environmental policy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for the inquiry. I think that this group of paintings is in the off - limits, the agricultural system that is installed today is discouraging the development of goods. In support of this, almost all slaughter is central, i.e. large factories. It cannot be trusted that the same meat that is brought to the slaughter will return to the one laying it for slaughter. One result of this is that the source marks are unreliable, non-recognised meat cannot be classified as organic breeding. There is also great restriction that farmers can kill themselves to resuscitate. For the greater part of this material, disposal of hazardous tissue is in too few areas of the country. That's why I'm asking the highest. Whether she wishes to pay for a way to home entry and contribute to her independence of farmers and innovation in the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. For good inquiry and a positive tone in response at the highest rate, the lead manager, Son of Svavarsdóttir. Minister. I've heard them before, and I think there's something that can be built on if we try. I think there should be a foreground in the implementation of existing or existing agricultural contracts and should be done according to the last agreement by 2019, to examine the environment, to approach the agriculture out of the environment. Its eco-efficiency needs to be assessed, not only by the agricultural industry itself, but also by the trade involved, i.e. The import of any products it uses or is sold as a competition with it. In other words, if I use that boring word of politics, it'll have to be a complete eye on the lawsuit. That's what needs to be done, right with the climate in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u51	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of the council who have participated in discussions. I welcome reactions to the highest degree. Minister. First and foremost, I want to inculcate it in me for fine works. I hope, first of all, that a very clear will be shown to the core tone, which is being revised in a domestic agreement, or at the level of employment planned for the target, i.e. that organic farming views are supported. I also want the stern minister of it - I missed not hearing that tone clearly in her language - especially looking to the climate issues. I realize that there is a significant potential for improvement in the market market markets where this type of food demand is increased; it is in my mind that it is very important. It is of utmost importance for the long future that all the changes we are making in our business life are fundamental to climate goals. All of our plans need to include that all measures are directly involved in either binding more carbon or reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I trust it will appear in the second answer at the highest level. Minister that it will be, i.e. that we agree to look especially at the instruments in agriculture, both traditionally, when talking about what energy sources we forward to, etc. to support agriculture, but also to these perspectives in agricultural agriculture in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u52	Madam President. Thank you for this discussion that's important. I'd like to draw out to the highest, too. The Environment Minister is looking at certain aspects related to agriculture through the Action Programme. It also says that in my ministry, as well as in the Department of Veterans and Agriculture, we are taking a very close look. Last week, I enjoyed this clear vision of the future, the environment, the environmental factors, the carbon equations, and the way they want to support the organic farming of sheep. This is something that we politicians should promote when we find this great cooperation and vision. I agree with what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn's Óttarsson Proppér says it's probably better to look at the whole thing, but sometimes it's good to take specific tasks experimentally. I wondered about starting a group, for more members of the council have declared interest in it, with sheep farms that would merely take the sheep's flocks for inspection, perhaps appointing two of them from this council, from a government and a government position, and identify me ready to command quickly. Svavarsdóttir I'm ready for that. I know there are others who have expressed interest. I'd check it out, then. I think this is important. I can see that it would be possible to appoint a group of three to five people to do this that could work quickly because we have about clear goals. I think farmers would also welcome it and they would have their normal representatives in such a group that could then be in support of the Action Programme, the work there, but also in support of the Review Committee on livestock contracts, where we are looking at how to bring a part of the bone payment and more to the culture agreements, etc. There's a lot of opportunities. I'll thank you again for these suggestions, and I'll consult with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u53	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Environment and resource minister on the environmental impacts and sustainable development of the construction industry and ask the minister how it feels it can be done in the land of eco-friendly and more sustainable. I think it's right to ask the Minister about this, I'd like the Minister to approach the missions to the Ministry's planning and mobilization. There are very important projects involved in the construction industry, and I know that the Minister has been very interested in environmental impacts and sustainability. It is estimated that the building industry's carbon tracks are enormous, and globally, it has been proposed that the construction industry is responsible for about 30% of greenhouse gas emissions and consumes about 40% of the world's produced energy. On the other hand, I have found British government policy in which they deal with the construction industry in Britain, even talking about a higher proportion when it comes to carbon tracks in that country and also the use of e.g. Water that seems very large, so I don't talk about wastes that are left to be made up. Recently, a seminar was held that discussed climate and sustainable construction practices. I ran through, preparing this discussion and the inquiry, speaking at the highest level. A minister, but I didn't think it was very much about how it envisions that the Icelandic construction industry can be more sustainable, environmental. It was noted that the Agency has been a national pioneers in regard to focusing on eco-friendly views, but much less on what the construction industry itself has been doing. Although I have been preparing for this discussion at another seminar, I think the oldest one was from 2002, where the same factors were spoken, and you also see that this is a large part of the work of other countries around us, it seems much less to have been considered in this country. I am very interested in hearing from the minister what he sees to be done in this regard, how we can focus less on short - vision, speed, and greed when it comes to buildings, how we can consider the sustainable reasons but also what kind of situation we live in here and what aspects we do not need to consider to the same extent that such as the potential use of water, as in many other places.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u54	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry, and I'll say it with what. Foreman. There are still many things to do, and when we discuss, as is now a bit of fashion or talk, about building regulations and the speed of building, and the lack of housing, I think we need to remember, too, that we have to have some balance here at the speed and so the quality, because we're going to have the buildings lasting, so we're going to build for the future. I think there are several ways of making the construction industry around here more eco-efficient and sustainable. However, it is not enough to change law and regulations to do so. The householders must also experience that environmental and sustainable buildings are what should come, not just public buildings, but all housing. Today, only public buildings are built according to eco-friendly standards and witnesses as such. Hence, more instruction is needed for the construction work, and this was done during a controversial debate. A senator refers to this, and I opened. More education is needed on the value of living more than traditionally, e.g. how to minimize carbon tracks and reduce resource waste production of the building process and the survival of the building by maintaining the sustainable target in the foreground. It also needs to see if it is not yet time to implement a specific local environmental production system for construction in Iceland rather than to use a foreign witnessing system that is in our circumstances less than usual. I know a lot is seen in the British system, but we have other factors to consider, but energy consumption, for example, is an important factor there. If I handle only the design of the building industry, pointing it in a green direction, then it is first noted that all construction projects shall meet the requirements of the law of No. 160/2010, about the structure and regulations set up in accordance with these measures. It is important to be aware of the challenges of design, component selection, and disposal with the continuation of the workers. As there is increased quality, the extension and use of human activites are generally reduced in a general way in terms of the need for reform and maintenance that has a negative environmental impact. According to Article No. 112/2012, about the choice of materials and waste, should be kept to a minimum in the setting allowing the reused and reusable materials and waste to be kept to a minimum. It is also recommended that there be a biography analysis of new monumental activities, repairs, monumental monuments, and major maintenances. It seems that it was not right back in the time when the Regulation was being carried out to make an unsupervised requirement for the development of a life cycle. Rather, it is suggested that public members be among the first ones who required a life-time analysis for their projects. Thus there would be practical knowledge for counselors who might be required later on for general projects. In this way it would not be to increase the cost of the general enterprise. Then, in part 15 of the building regulations that deal with manpower pollution and the handling of structural and deforestation waste in general are designed to contribute to the environmental and sustainable construction activities of the country. It is also important to highlight the education and professional knowledge of the people working in the industry, especially the designer and industry. They need to know well the wide variety of eco-friendly structures beyond traditional and direct buildings in that direction. In addition to improving the persistence of human activities, environmental design, chemical selection, and disposal not only establishes the basis for green and climate - changing development in structural processes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u55	Madam President. Of course, our simple, most important answer is that we live less, more organized, so that we live close and close to one another. Today, each Icelander lives in 64 square feet [64 square m] while his find lives in 34. But we also need to look for ways to increase our donations, including those we make money. with light and standard building units, and increasing speed, but I warn of plans to yield to the quality requirements of buildings as the Norwegians are now doing with the so-called TEK17 Regulation. GEN, the Norwegian architect society has warned about this and asked: "Who will take it? And who will achieve the benefits? I agree that witnessing needs adaptable to local circumstances, and there is a need to teach people to associate with their buildings. Today, we are not allowed to sit behind a steering wheel but learn about a car. When it comes to our largest investment, it is important how we handle buildings, just how they treat us and our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u56	Madam President. It's a very important matter underneath, an eco-friendly building, but we're getting used to it. In this regard, the choice of material is of utmost importance. Once, against every ton of concrete that is made, one ton of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gasesase, is released. I think it is very important, therefore, that the choice of matter, the use of trees, and even the local trees is very important, and now we expect the growing forests to come into it. The machine use itself, i.e. attempting to reduce the emissions of machines in the construction industry, these can be done in various ways, evaluable, in a mixture of methadone, etc. and then, most important, maintained. It has been with the Icelanders that I assure them that they have not cared very well for the maintenance of their buildings. How well - intentioned they are to do so! All of this is a tip to the highest. Environment and resource minister on items that could enter a revised building structure with clear environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u57	Madam President. This is an important debate that will take place on the question of how to make the construction industry in Iceland more sustainable and sustainable. It is evident from what was shown in the reply of a minister that even if there are laws, there is more to be done. It is urgent to take action, for this is a major part of the way we are going to control greenhouse gas emissions. I was happy to be the highest. Ministers would also talk about the need for construction, because that is what I think is going to be extremely important about sustainability into the future. I'm gonna allow myself to refer to the top financial program. Governments showing that it is the goal for more individuals 80 years of age and older to live in their own housing, at a rate of 85% in 2022. It's gonna have to make sure that there's an apartment that's available. This is how it needs to be built today, in order to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for the discussion and answers from the Minister. What I take with myself from this discussion is that it's a question that we redefined in Iceland what we have with our quality. This has often shown in our discussion that the quality of having as much square feet per person, that we use as much valuable material as possible and preferably move, far from here, to show our quality and how much money we have to put in our house. I also agree with the minister on what it says about vital instruction. I think it is particularly important that her subsidiary and hers provide increased training for the construction industry itself and, as noted, be sure that we who live in our apartments will have more to do with our housing and demands. Although it does not depend on the Minister, I would like to strongly encourage her to examine, as it has expressed itself, possibly a tax-based impulse that, as we have seen, may change reimbursement of environmental cars, whether it is possible to reevaluate the worthiers of eco-friendly building products, whether a lower payment of rural areas might be considered, and that the lenders might consider how they value those who are going to stress the environment when it comes to construction. We build mainly from concrete in Iceland, and it is long before we try to enhance our variety in this regard. There's been talk of living less, that we're living according to standards, I truly agree, that we're reinventing new procedures and reinventing more and that we're not going to 2007, where men threw out the entire kitchen rights that were very nice to their bridges. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u59	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. She has been very productive and positive. I think we agree more and less. I especially took along from the discussion what was mentioned about the maintenance of buildings. I wonder when I sit here, because it's quite right by what. First of all, I'm especially interested in how we can use green catalyses to help with greener behavior, so to speak, or encourage it. I think it's general, so we're not good enough to keep us building, and we go to tear them down when it's too late, even people feel that they don't pay to remake. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make any sense to me, if you don't mind. I wondered, " Some sort of thing, it's just a rule. ' There's something I'm thinking out loud. I also agree with what happened. paritaprevir And architects, Logi Einarsson, that the quality of living is good not necessarily in building bigger and not at all, you just have to clean up more. The quality is designed in an ideally designed space. It's often even better if space is smaller, I talk from experience. I take along the many practical suggestions that have been presented in the discussion and that are a thank - you experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u60	Madam President. I've already done the people's affairs that get paid from the Social Security System for a discussion at the General Assembly, and this is the number of pensioners who live at all of their greatest poverty. As a review, first the system works, so a person earns full rights to pay from the social security system at the age of 40 while living here at the age of 18◯67. However, those who have been living abroad are paid part of their lives. The system expects people to get that from outside too, but that's not always the case. I made a very thorough inquiry earlier during this council, where this group was super-compressed, and you can see, for example. that the number of sensibilities paid by foreign residents has increased from 382 in 2010 to 746 in 2016. Microenergy pensioners have also increased from 451 in 2010 to 910 in 2016. So there is a growing number of people in that group. I'd like to be happy to know that in the government financial program, there is a need to increase the support of this group of disability, which has not earned full rights in this country because of a foreign population, e.g. immigrants. I'm gonna be glad it's at least written down. But the question is, how should this be made up? It's been a disaster. It was, for example. it was not discussed in a financial committee on the review of the social security system. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Whether or not to appoint a group to review the terms of insurance protection and rights in pension insurance, in view of a large increase in the number of pensioners who are affected by damage from the social security system due to previous foreign habitats. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to re-examine the Regulation on the basis of the calculation of the proportion of future extensions due to the former abroad to ensure the minimum implementation of all pensioners. As the system is now, those with relatively reduced payments also receive relatively reduced improvements and therefore relatively do not have what is considered minimal progress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u61	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for this inquiry. It is asked if a minister intends to appoint a group to review this matter. Clearly, this is a very important matter that must be considered. Like what? A senator correctly mentioned it in a five - year financial program and realized that there is a group that has a very special budget, in some cases at least, and that it is urgent to look to the ways in which it can be more supportive. It is true, though, that at the outset we are not talking about the impairment in this context, for this is the case, as is the case. At the beginning of his inquiry, the arrangement for people to earn these rights over time and reach full rights over 40 years of dwelling, so that the longer people have lived here, the more rights they will gain. The social security system does not require any Icelandic citizen's rights, taxes or occupations, or that the person has worked here before. Additionally, it is not required that the person be in good health when being transferred to the country. Then I'd like to make a special note that in the case of microenergy pensions, the period between the person being a micro-energy pensioner and until the age of 67 will be taken into account, allowing a substantial increase in the rights ratio. Of course, it is also clear that the number of people who have not lived in the country is increasing as long as possible. A senator came in. It may be only a matter of time to expect, for in recent years a large increase in foreign citizens has taken place in this country. That is why they are more insistent to look to this fact. Today, these are some 746 pensioners who had not earned full rights in October 2016, approximately 2.2% of the total number of sensibilities, and exactly 973 biofuels that did not have full rights in October 2016, or about 5.2% of the total energy and rehabilitation donors. We must agree that as Kingdom citizens, we are to contribute to the minimal growth and well - being of those who are not able to support themselves for some reason. There are various ways in which this group can be used. In my opinion, it is not necessarily necessary to make fundamental changes to the social security system in terms of insurance protection or rights development. Of course, there are more aspects of our welfare system than the social security insurance we have to watch and interact with social security, such as financial support on the part of a country or on the part of a country. Although there is both the sensibilities of sensibilities and microenergy pensioners, the issues of microenergy pensioners have been more discussed in this context. In some cases we are dealing with the claim to rights in a country where there are other definitions of disability and disability rights, and although a person has been decided by disability in this country, the person may find himself in the land and therefore not be able to get the benefits he or she had the right to do. This may mean that we need to take other steps to make up for it here. In continued global review of the social security system, the disability-based improvement system will be considered. It is only natural to review which methods are effective in dealing with pensioners who live in this country who have not earned full rights. We firmly assume that at continued observation of the disability system, this factor will be specifically considered. Hv. A senator asks if I intend to revise Article 3. Section 15. Regulations requiring a relative calculation of specific progressive yields for the previous habitat. In short, the law on social assistance is permitted to provide special replacements in addition to the pension to those pensioners who have an overall income minimum, but today this warrant is only for microenergy pensioners because we recently changed the pension in public insurance was the addition of a sum of bills in pensions. Of course, in this context a comparable change must be expected to be planned when it comes to our biofuel system, but this review has not yet been completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Þóra Árnadóttir's Stone for the inquiry. How could it be that in the social security law there are laws forbidding farms abroad for more than 11 years, there will be reduced pension rights, regardless of the individual's efforts or efforts to the community? In the same article, it is said that work in Iceland until its 70's is possible to avoid it. Mind your own business. Minister to such broad limits in an environment where the free flow of labor is a fact? Would it not be an approach to considerably lower the number of 40 years and take e.g. ... ofthe 25-year Navy rule of the same law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u63	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and rejoices that the Minister considers the matter to be at least The nature of the matter must be considered. I'm still worried that it's going to be put in as part of an opinion or a change in the disability-fuel system. I'm afraid this may become an elbow child at such a job because we know there are other factors to make in terms of professional ability assessments that are likely to extend the discussion. I think this case needs special emphasis and a special focus so that it will not just be pushed aside one more time. You're absolutely right. According to a minister, there are other aspects of the country's global security system that are relevant and that are linked to the social assistance of a community. Then we must remember that it is thoughtless as a short - term solution. It is not thought of as an extension of life, as this group needs. So again I feel that I have reasons to look into these matters in particular, so I want to encourage them to the highest degree. A minister to do something special about it. For two things about the Regulation, I cannot read the Regulation any other than that it was only a decision to use a percentage calculation of the specific performances, but it really doesn't have to be done, so if it was a political wish to perform this differently, though it cost more money, there would be room for it within the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u64	Madam President. Of the righting process, indeed, it is true, as it were. A senator points out that this is limited to 40 years of right work. Of course, it has to be assumed that when we move abroad temporarily for employment, we are gaining some rights in the relevant state and taking advantage of them against the rights we already have, therefore, it is assumed that the righting process in itself is in itself correcting practice in a fairly normal way. Then we have continued rights work within the microenergy system when appropriate, i.e. for the group that lands in that position. Of course, this is important to keep in mind. First and foremost, I want to celebrate this discussion. I'm not worried that the discussion about the rights of this group will be an elbow child for the work ahead of us on our social security and microenergy pension system. It is extremely urgent that we look to this. We have a very growing group of foreign citizens who have moved here, returns very much into national preparation, and we see in all places that are of utmost importance to us. We need to cherish the rights of this group. Surely we do not want our social security system to differ in any way or to arrange for so much poverty after working here and working simply because they have a very limited right from their own countries for whatever reason they may be. I can assure you what. A senator that we will keep this important matter in strict focus on a review of social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u65	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for wanting to have this conversation here with me. It's time we again discuss housing because, as we know, it's not only in Iceland that real estate prices go up in a way too quickly. Last year was also one of the largest annual rates reported in Norway that led the Norwegians to adopt temporary changes for a year and a half on the property loan policy to match the characteristics of real estate zoster and especially around Oslo and the area. The mean increase in Norway was about 10% but not nearly 22% in Oslo and its surroundings. However, in Iceland, the increase was around 15% and continues to increase according to the latest prices in the last 12 months, i.e. about 19% of the capital area. The debt status of Norwegian homes has grown and has increased concern over the negative effects of long - term economic benefits. We know in Iceland from hard experience that a building that is driven by an inaccessible debt is not going to do any good. Danish homes are far more debt than Icelandic homes, and the same applies to Dutch homes. After last government operations, Iceland fell to both Norwegian and Swedish homes in recent years and was only Finnish homes that owed less than Icelandic at the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016. Evolution shows that in 2016 this was reversed in Iceland, and unfortunately we hear of young Icelandic people who are in great trouble, whether when it comes to buying a home or what is committed to consumer property and looking to an agent of debt. So, according to the Norwegian Economic Commission recommendations, if the person bought an apartment number two, the minimum percentage of his own money would be increased to 40% and the maximum loan time was to be reduced, and demand pressure was to be reduced in areas where there has been high costs. By such measures, the Norwegians believe that this demand pressure can both be reduced and at the same time provide extra space for the first buyers to get into the market, where financial people who already own possessions may find it harder to acquire more. The same has been true here in a country where prices of real estate have been determined by a shortage of explanations, such as we know. But I have to agree with an apartment loan fund that says, with President's permission: Investigating the time of the bid to enter into the market, there is good reason to reduce investors' positions in the real estate market. So I'd like to direct two questions to the highest. Minister: 1st A minister might consider taking measures similar to those now used in Norway to block the high prices of an apartment building in the Osjoar area or other measures that served the same purpose, and then what? 2. Does Ministers believe that the high prices in housing recently in the capital area are evidence of real estate abductions requiring excessive debt for the apartment buyers? [[The president calls.]] If so, how does a minister feel he should respond on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u66	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. This is probably one of the most urgent issues we are facing today. I don't think it's a secret. It is simply a crisis in a real estate market that is largely due to an enormous lack of housing into the market while we are going through a very strong economic surge. That is, therefore, to answer the type of action that needs to be taken in the market is that of number one, two and three, for it is quite clear that people need to live somewhere. True, we can take action like those taken into Norway, and we may well be able to see if there is any reason to act here. However, people's main problems are that they simply need a place to live in this market. To this end, the actions this government has taken to number one, two and three. What are we doing to cope? We're trying to sharpen the development of rural communities in making common housing plans for any of the communities so that this is not just a subject of each rural society but of them together, for example, it needs to be done. meeting demand in the capital area, not with individual communities. We easily move between rural communities, so rural areas in the capital area must share responsibility for that important issue. They look to what they can do to help build new buildings. On the other hand, much of the condensation is being carried out, causing significant problems in organization and taking much time in organization. We look at how action could be taken to help. We also look to what is happening to the fact that small and relatively efficient apartments are not being built, but most often called into this trend. When talking about the structure of the population, when talking about increasing fiscal prices, the focus of the rural communities on these materials is a significant concern, i.e. and an ever larger exchange on the property itself, caused the very idea that small apartments simply fall off the market, it is not practical to build them. As a result, the demand is not yet met, where the need is most urgent. We continue to see that the construction market looks primarily at relatively expensive luxury farms at the same time that young people cannot enter the real estate market. This is especially true of rural society, but we can also look at how it is being paid off for property. There are other ways in which the Kingdom views itself, e.g. whether we can take government guards into consideration for further sealing or for further increase in the number of apartments into the market during this brief period of time. However, blessedly, the situation seems to be a considerable number of apartments on their way into the market, although, unfortunately, the plans have not really increased to this point, at least not quickly enough. Hopefully there will be a change. The second question was, Does a minister believe that the rising prices in recently existing housing indicate a real estate evasion that calls for excessive debt? It is quite easy to observe when real - estate prices start to increase excessively. We simply know that real estate prices come with the power of purchase and have always done so. There are two covariates that are the best, the source of money, and then the level of real growth. As we look at these two factors, we see that here, real - life prices are clearly increasing considerably above the level of money gain and some of the changes in loan rates that have been made. It's quite clear that we're about to start loading into the next real estate bar if nothing has to be done. The differences here and the situations referred to in Norway and the conditions we have experienced in the past are that, at present, there has been a very small increase in domestic debt in this context, so there is no reason to worry deeply about it. However, once again, enough invitations must be ensured into the market in order to prevent high prices, since these prices are mainly explained by the market's lack. One basic law of economics that we know so well is that when there are more people who want to buy it than those who want to sell it, the price is too high.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u67	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for the inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer. I'll agree with the highest. A minister and, in fact, a leader, that's one of the biggest issues we have to deal with. There is no one solution. I think the highest. A minister may have realized that. For example, the way we build up and how to build weights is going to be to stay in touch with the climate goals we have set for ourselves as to whether we are going to seal up or not. However, the suggestion that the inquirer asks about is an action that could come about quite quickly. I've thought about it myself with special groups going into the general market, I'll name it, e.g. invalidation where Empress is, the House Fund of the Quantum Community, whether the government should not simply lend the relevant mortgage funds at the expense price to provide for a special group that is not connected to the general market. If so, a certain air from the vaccine could be allowed to be clearly formed in a demand and can be justified as a specific procedure. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna give this idea here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u68	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. This is one of the issues we have to discuss all the time. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for the addition. I think she's worth a lot of money. I think the Norwegian method is one of the things that are supposed to be in the package. Of course, as a minister came in, much is responsible for the situation. I have to say, I think we need to do more to reduce investment status in the real estate market, I think that's very important. We now know that Bust is building some 80 apartments without a garage that meet the requirements of being smaller and less expensive. That's one of the things that's been missing, and we weren't prepared for it. There was almost every construction center left the country, people said it was just one left after a crash, the market was a long way off. It is also possible to wonder what we can do for people who are not doing well, for it is not enough that their apartments become less expensive, that the people are having trouble collecting themselves because the rent market is ruined, how we can help them. It is similar with reevaluation. Compared to what I see at least In a financial program, it seems I shouldn't change or add to it. The mean increase in shelter prices is around 19% in the capital area, and it is still so much up - to - date that we will have to turn it back so that small apartments in a good place will still be much less expensive. As the minister came in, these weights are more expensive and other things that require a total effort to change. I agree that if we need to stimulate the supply, we need so much new housing that there may be a long time before we can put our arms around it. That's why I think we need to look for ways that soon come to action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u69	I thank you again for the time being. A senator's idea. Maybe I'll just steal it, I don't know, you never know. In fact, I forgot to mention that one of the things we are doing in these matters, and it says in the five - year plan, that we are making a permanent funding of the state on the so - called general housing system that will then be 3 billion per year in 2018 and 2018 and then 1.5 billion each year thereafter. We assume that this building will remain permanent and we are trying to establish a reasonably powerful living environment system that is specifically intended for this low - income group and that is, primarily, tenants around it. It is hoped that it will help at least those who are in a much heavier position. We are considering a number of other measures, both in terms of growth reform, how we might be able to improve with all the most efficient groups, but as much as how we can better support our early purchases, especially with those who have too familiar problems. A large group of young people living in a rented house actually have a substantial amount of payment but cannot take the first step into a real estate market because they will never be able to lay low to the head, although they certainly have the power to pay. All of this is being examined. I'm a little worried about the Norwegian way of reducing the maximum exposure of others to the current situation, because when the market is primarily building at the top end of the food chain, so to speak, i.e. Above all, for a very powerful party, a folding up the entire chain is required to free cheap housing at the bottom. Such a procedure actually requires more personal commitment in other purchases and delays the next step in people's lives, resulting in the release of the small inexpensive apartments later. I think it might be dangerous in these circumstances, although economically it is the idea of all good values. [[The president calls.]] But I thank you again for very good discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u70	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for speaking with me on these matters. We've only been through these discussions in the past in connection with other matters. I think we're at the top of the world. There's something the Minister would agree on in these matters. But it's good to be able to discuss these matters. The fact is, according to the electricity laws, a minister should submit every four years to the Allied Council proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. I've investigated these matters at a council meeting office. The fact is, such a course has never been submitted. Now I don't think I'm going to go to the highest level of my life. Minister, recently we are, regarding that policy here and now that her predecessors have not submitted such a course, but I feel that the fact of all the attention is worthy that this has never been done. I think that when electronics come, there is a lack of government policy in general, I am not pointing to any particular group of others in it. It is customary in our neighboring countries that governments, members of the council, simply set up an electronic policy, where to put lines, how to arrange them. I feel that the situation that she is in some sort of impossibility today is that a company owned by the energy companies is actually premiumed to take a step through the lines every time. I think it should be a political policy that we're dealing with. I know there's a system plan coming in here and I know there's a policy on landline, but it's not exactly the same thing as political policy. The second part of my inquiry turns around so that a energy efficiency programme I think is pretty important to set. I don't know we have one. We look at all too much of the power that can be achieved and activated from what we have. That's not a energy efficiency plan. It's an energy-making program. Since then, we may have found some kind of manufacturing activity to use it. Then what we're going to do is move the energy from A to B. I think we lacked a very complete policy in these issues, where we're looking at it from A to O. How are we going to use the energy that is possible to produce? What are we going to use it for? [[The president calls.]] How are we going to get her there? Then we can begin to wonder if we are ready to activate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u71	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager to submit this request and to draw attention to the issues of electrical energy transport systems. I think I'm right next door. A senator and I hear in every respect that we agree that we can work through that conversation and discuss these matters in a good way. Regarding the first question raised by the Ministry, a proposal is made for the synopsis of the government's policies on the building of electricity transport systems. The work is in line with the changes made in electronic law in June 2015, where, according to the changes made by the greater part of the WCC, a law was added to the electricity law that the Minister should, like the year before. A senator entered, submit every four years at the General Assembly a proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. A provision for temporary action in the ensuing process of change was found that such proposals for a government resolution on the building of the electropower transport system should be proposed to the Council no later than October 15, 2016. As we recall, there was a time preparation for elections and including because of them it was not possible to make such a proposal for action within the time frame that the law certainly assumed. However, the proposal is now being made. It is proposed that it be submitted for presentation and open-label consultation with the Ministry's Homepage in the following weeks, hopefully at the latest by the end of April. As noted in the aforementioned Committee of more part of the employment committee since March 2015, part of the policy will require principles and guidelines on earth cables or airlines, but also other general aspects of the transport system of electricity and how it should be developed for a longer period of time. I agree with what. A senator's importance is that the politicians, both the executives and the council, let it all go, but don't leave it all alone with the Landsnet. In accordance with this, the proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems will, in part, be based on the interpretation adopted at the General Assembly on May 28, 2015, for government policies on electrical recovery. In addition, it will also include other policy emphasis on the construction of electricity transport systems. I believe it is important that these policies be successfully handled, and we try to do good. With such a synonym, the Council can provide specific emphasis and principles that should be taken into account in the construction of transport systems and in the construction of a system plan. It is important that the Council have this approach to the future view of this series. The challenge we face is to try to achieve as much harmony as possible about the vital structures involved in the electrical transport system. To that end, we look to economic, social, and environmental views alike. Long-term sowing is a normal balance between these three support for sustainable development. So now we have an opportunity to take a responsible and informed discussion on the importance of these infrastructure and to work on government policy on the building of the transport system. Open consultation and cooperation are very important here. I'll be guided by it in this job. It is noted that the Parliament's resolution proposal will be submitted to presentation and review over the next few weeks. As a result, the tips and comments given will be considered carefully and taken into account. Following this, a synopsis proposal for the development of the electronic transport system will be submitted to the General Assembly. To answer the first part of the question directly, I think it is realistic to believe that the Council's resolution will be after the open process of consultation presented at the Council either at the end of the present spring council, perhaps leading to the beginning of the coming fall. After all, I would expect it to be more in the fall. About the energy efficiency programme as a function. The senator came in first to answer, of course, that we already have a specific energy efficiency programme through a frame plan such as its name, its proposal for the protection and energy efficiency of land areas. The initial objective of a frame plan was that it was an equation of protection and energy efficiency. So we must not forget in our discussion of the frame plan. Regarding the energy policy asked about them, the answer to the fact that such a public policy does not exist. I believe there are a number of reasons for working on a formal energy policy in Iceland, that's what I'll consider in the Ministry. Such a policy would be designed to provide a long - range view of the energy of our Icelanders and what our priorities will guide them. I believe that the general state of agreement on the main reasons that would appear in such energy policy, our general focus on energy matters is increasing the share of renewable energy sources, etc. [[The president calls.]] I'm not quite done here, I'm gonna get better access to energy policy if somebody's already asked for the word that I think is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttarsson Kolbeinn Proppér for the query. It is interesting now to hear that Icelandic law is not being followed, especially when it is done by itself, which is most likely to be done. According to electrical law, no. 65/2003, it is the Minister to submit a four-year synonym to the construction of the Icelandic power transport system. Here we have a direct law that goes on increasing transparency and organization and also reduces freeness, but it has never been used. The highest. Will a minister approach the government to ignore the legal process? Will the minister then submit a program for building the power transport system this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u73	Madam President. It is important that we, while using machines for energy, speak the same language as the procedure is normal. There is something called an electrical demand that, of course, has to be defined. Then you create something called an electronic energy production program or an electrical activation plan, that's the frame plan, it's not a energy efficiency scheme, because energy efficiency is about using what is produced in some level. We can talk about a change in energy that takes hundreds of megawatts. We can talk about energy forecasting to 2050, where we need 500-600 megawatts and we can talk about the unknown size energy users, but there could be hundreds of megawatts. That's what we need now, i.e. an energy efficiency program where you put the stitches on and create some vision for the future. Then we build an energy import program on this. It's this process that I think very important that we are talking about with the same terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u74	A respectable president. I thank everyone who participated in this discussion and the highest. Minister for clear answers. Bitterman now, I'm just saying, there's a long-range program for the development of electrical transport systems. But only with regard to the second question as the highest. There was a minister who went over them. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was well aware of these definitions. That's exactly what I came into, what I'm looking at as energy efficiency is not where we can activate energy, where we can produce energy. There we have established a plan of some kind in a structure called this misleading name for the protection and efficiency of land areas. I feel that it reflects old - fashioned thinking when it comes to these matters, that there is actually a dropwater or aquifer that isn't activated, that's energy that's ruined and really okay just to activate whatever it is to do with the energy, that's the second thing. During the few months that have passed since this ideal period, we have discussed the climate goals and reports. We've been discussing transport energy exchanges. Rammann has held here, and more and more, all of these have been linked to this big case. That's what I've been calling for in my case, and would wish a minister to enter a little of his final words, i.e. This policy, as explained in the latter part of my questions, which I know that a minister was not far enough to answer, i.e. Plans on how much energy is devoted to transport, homes, medium-sized users and large users etc. [[The president calls.]] Here you can add green and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-03-52.u75	Madam President. I'm gonna start by answering a question. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Son of Guðmundsson, I will submit such a plan in the fall. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Sir Kolbeinn son of Óttarsson Proppér of the fact that this is true, this course is missing. Actually, I can also say that it is actually a prerequisite for us to work the box. It's a little reverse with all this energy and time that goes in the box and doesn't have energy policy, why we need the energy and what we're gonna use it for. This general focus on energy is, of course, increased proportion of renewable energy sources, continued energy exchange, sustainable consumption of energy resources, energy security of households and enterprises, and energy innovation, such as winter. A senator came in, increased delivery security, electrical power in the country area, etc. Moreover, in such a energy policy, it would be possible to highlight the energy efficiency itself as early as possible. There's a senator here asking. As with the government's policy, energy exchange in transport is emphasized. A senator also came in. To meet this, adequate electricity and transport and distribution systems must be available on national level, e.g. to receive increased electricalvailisation. This point will be specifically included in the above proposal for interpretation of this policy. The same principle applies to the energy security for homes and SMEs. I'm also going to say at the end that it's quite right what has been set up in the terms of the law on the box, that's actually a bit misleading, because that work is not a energy efficiency scheme. There's no energy policy, and then there's the frame next to it, i.e. where we're going to find or activate whatever energy we need. But then we need to know what energy we need.
