ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on deck. 71 and changes are required. 72. The Committee's opinion is on the bill for changing the law from the budget of 2018, which we call to our convenience, bandorm. The committee has tried to review the bill as effectively as possible and to be helped by a number of visitors as mentioned in the Committee. We're going to propose a few changes to the bill. I'm going to call it what. Councilmen on top. A few are technical, but it is first noted that more part of the Economic and Business Committee is right that at the same time, the tax rate of income is increased from 20% to 22% will be raised from 125 you. K. of 150. K. According to the information we have received from the head of the state tax, this change means that despite the increase in the tax rate, the tax pay of the main interest population is reducing. This is true primarily for those who have some tiny savings and thus enjoy interest; a person 400 thousand, a married couple 800 thousand, is then equal. Those with lower standards are a little better off then. But everyone else does pay considerably higher. We believe that it is wise not to have a government's intention to burden ordinary employees with such changes. Concomitant increases and modifications of 1 mg are necessary. 2.g. the legislation on income taxes to match the tax per tax in income taxes. This applies to people who are involved here. This also applies to communities and other things. So being, for example, would not result in taxes. in a community. Therefore, it is suggested that the tax per cent be increased from 36% to 37.6%, as explained in the Committee. We also make a suggestion for 2nd. Section 3. legal innuendo of motor vehicles, such as those with methadone, has shown that vehicles are being driven by evaluable. In effect, this change is in line with the synopsis of the energy change strategy adopted on May 31 of that year. where it was pointed out, saying under the permission of the president: "Preparation will be the main source of renewable sources, and then technical words will come there. " Therefore, we contribute to this, a small change that has little or no effect on the income of a trust fund. In terms of a social security cut-off of income when it comes to older citizens'raising it substantially, or from 25 levels. K. of 100 you. K. is based on a pre-existing bill. More part of the Economic and Business Committee is celebrating. But at the same time, we direct to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs as well as to the Ministry of Health that it must be considered that a permanent contribution will be made to non-employed pensions and employment income. That it's an assignment here, hopefully right now, in the coming year when we take up the budget of 2019, to raise the amount of remuneration in the same way we're doing right now when it comes to earning a living. It's a justice thing. However, this is a procedure involving a considerable increase in financial expenses but is intended to protect equality between senior citizens. We also have indications that tax motives need to be considered when it comes to eco-friendly public transportation. This is also in accordance with the above energy exchange action programme. We did not feel that the bill could be adjusted in terms of this, but we do believe that it is important that this should be checked immediately in the coming year, thus building up the incentive to contribute to public transport, and also when it comes to tourism. It is also important to note that in the review of Iceland's Convention Insurance Insurance, it is noted that the Convention Insurance is done, under current law, paying taxes that are not made to others, to our other institutions, such as Legislation, Substitute Bank, etc. Of course, this doesn't reduce the state of normal insurance that we all know how important it can be, though we all pray that we don't have to test commitments, but that happens, unfortunately. It is essential that the law be adjusted on the basis of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee and also follow up the decision in the budget of the UN to reflect better than it is currently necessary to monitor, the monitoring of individual companies. This applies, e.g. In Iceland, a relatively simple company, which calls for, not a lot of work at the F.A., it may be more reasonable to think that there is a rather fixed dollar number made to these institutions, rather than the way they do it today. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this year, unchanged, will result in a loss of 1 mg. 57st. b-involves a law on income taxation, where there are restrictions on authority rights to reduce taxable interest costs and losses due to the commitment of linked parties. We believe that changes are necessary to prevent the development of an enterprise to be subject to increased costs or problems because of this. This has nothing to do with government income or government tax pay. This is only about when a mother's partner decides to borrow money, charge bonds or the way it is being done, can be a country-based subsidiary, it's a business group working within the country, subtracting from the interest industry. If the law fails to replace it, these interest revenues become taxable at the mother's club. This is unnatural and is not the purpose of the Lawgiver, and this is why enterprises will employ other and less aggressive means of financing to the overall corporation. So instead of the motherhood in the power of a corporation doing so and achieving a more favorable advantage, a baby society goes out on its own. This is normal, and we wait for the matter to be taken up between the 2nd and the 3rd. in the Economic and Business Committee and are expected to submit a different proposal when 2rd Environment. will begin with a world of Congress aware of this. Then there are some technical adjustments we make. They can be more familiar with the committee opinion. Mr. President. To say this, the one who stands here has never been a special spokesman for raising taxes, but has spoken more of the fact that the government merely relaxes the clone, promising remuneration to keep a little more in the pay layer than it does. There are some tax increases, including those listed. capital tax, which is, of course, a very hot tax base, and you need to be very careful when moving the tax percentage there. In turn, more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee was working against this increase by increasing the payoff target so that at least The majority of normal employees would not be affected by this. In fact, this results in a slight decrease in tax burden, not much but a little. Then, according to this bill, less than the previous government was going to do, carbon charges are raised, and I objected to the rise in the platform, if I recall September 15 of that year. But now in politics, at times you have to compromise and realize how you can advance your priorities. I say, in the Treaty, the government promised us a lower income tax reduction, hopefully in the coming year, which would take that value of 2019. And then there is the question of continuing to cut down on the insurance that, of course, matters to a great deal. However, I have a clear understanding that there is a need to see what the situation will be like in a new year on the results of collective agreements. I think it's better to make this clear in the history of much of it. It is clear that it would have been better for us to make all the tax - system changes that we intend to make at once, but there is neither the situation nor the fairness to expect it to be done at the time we have now. Mr. President. I believe it is otherwise clear and in place of the position of more part of the Economic and Business Committee and the adjustment proposals made here. The things I haven't considered are mainly technical, but I want to draw attention to the fact that there are some changes in the Constitution of the National Institute of Iceland, which is found to be somewhat higher than the prices. There are explanations behind it. More part of the Economic and Business Committee doesn't think it's a reason to make comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Senator earlier described his lack of appreciation for tax increases. Is it not, though, that once we've been going to the top of the economy, taxes have been lowered? However, it was not required to build well enough for the interior. That's why we're in this situation right now. We all agree that we need to build up the wood. We're at the top of the economy. Is it not necessary, then, to maintain stability here in raising taxes just in return? Is it not a poisonous combination to intend to reduce taxes and extra expenses in the exact position we are? I want to ask you why. A member of Congress: Is he not concerned with changing the tax bases of the capital tax - mentioned as taxing just for real growth - will it cause the state to become of the amount expected in the bill? I'd like to ask who, too. Senator: Is the change advisable in the low level of the income tax system at the top of the economy during large expenditures? I want to pray. A senator explaining why it is a good change and why it will not cause harm and a mismanagement in these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. Now we're in politics. [[Up front.]] At last, that's right. I think I can argue that we're at the top of the economy, but we still see the laxness of the economy, that's getting a low workforce. I believe that it is wise at this point to relax when it comes to the tax, in order to balance the declines that are coming into existence, and that it will in the long term bring more money into the state fund. I'd like to point out that already, for example. income tax was reduced from 50% to 18% in the state increased the income tax of an enterprise, an enterprise's legislation. So I believe that tax - based moderation leads to greater wealth and prosperity. I think so. I think I have reasons for that opinion. As for the tax base of the fiscal tax and the ideas to reevaluate it, I'll be subject to the senator's concern in that I think it may be very risky to record some kind of price change into this tax stock. I haven't seen the layout yet, and I don't see how it's going to be made up. The rationality of the fiscal tax, however, is that the tax supply is clear and the taxprosentan is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u4	Mr. President. You see, the political is in the tax system. We as superiors view the importance of the tax system as much as the source of income. It needs to weigh together. That is why we strongly criticize the government's controls to counteract social inequities. In fact, they are still sick and continue in the course of two earlier governments. That's too bad. We'll make some adjustments in an effort to build these equation devices. I want to ask you why. A senator in cashier's rental trucks. Today, we are nearing the end of the year, just a few days. If so, you would be required to use law that would disqualify you from rental companies. The companies had been well aware of this, and they had recently taken into account the change in their management plans. So, what's up for the highest level? Government and what. legislatures suggesting that they still give discounts to rental companies? Well, maybe. A senator argues over that decision? Is it not likely that this decision will counteract the goals of working against the climate? That by promoting more vehicles that are contaminated by giving these discounts. [[The president calls.]] This is not a green tax, this is the opposite.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u5	Mr. President. It is quite clear that with the proposals that more part of the Economic and Business Committee is currently saying that when it comes to the fiscal tax, that's the way it is going. We make sure that those with the highest capital pay more now than those with just their usual savings are going to come out better than under the present system. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator must be pleased. In fact, that is not far enough. I'd like to talk to you about raising the holiday goal further. It was about this. Regarding the likes of a rental car, it is so, and people can have different views on it, that we think it is wise to give these companies a discount based on their part of their business models. The discount has been one of the key elements for their reinvigoration of their vehicle fleets during the past year, which has included the cost of more economic, more money - consuming, and environmental automobiles. But this discount disappears at the end of the next year. It is only a question of whether we will do so at the next year or if we will have a slightly longer adjustment, but not so much indiscriminately. We're going to halve it now and then finish at the end of the next year. That's all the magic. I have suggested, however, that you take up roads or roads in particular on rental cars for 24 hours, and all rental cars that come to Iceland for a short period of time. I think we should discuss this in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u6	A respectable president. I'm going to try to talk a little about politics, but I'm going to talk about economic politics, too. I am very interested in how the so - called left and the so - called right reacts in different ways to the economy. Us politicians have different opinions on that subject, both depending on where we are in politics, but I have seen things appear a little depending on what it is to do. I thought about it with the top advantage. That's one of the things we never had a chance to discuss on a committee. It is more appropriate, too, that we discuss it here. If we are at the top of the economic swing now, and I suppose a certain fine nothingism without wanting to go into all the depressions of that fine man, don't we need to react now as if we've come down to the swing? We don't have to worry about things like this. To raise a personal discount? It was one of the suggestions that came from my company in the campaign, and they are aware that all such decisions are subject to circumstances, as we explained them. It wasn't campaign plans, it was election proposals, and we're talking about it. That's why I think it's important that we talk about them here. Everyone seems to agree that we are at the top of the economy. That's why I find it odd to me that if we now raise expenses and raise personal discounts or anything like that, we're increasing the spell. Is that not the time now? I'm asking because I'm not sure. Is it not the time now to take such action so that it will be effective when the downturn has taken over the apparent peak that we are on right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u7	Madam President. On a large scale, I think we're gonna what we're gonna do. A senator is consistent in our assessment of what is wise and what is not. I'm just going to add a little bit. I think it's true and indisputable that we're at the top of the economy, like a sledgehammer. A senator pointed out, and I think it is only right now to consider how to relax and give an injection to the economy, including by reducing tax recovery, including by reducing income tax to lower levels, which, of course, comes primarily to those with moderate income and less for good. I can't believe that any man in a council hall is against that. I also think it's very wise to consider large investments in transport and other valuables. We must begin to insist that they are profitable. On the other hand, I think it is equally unwise to make a decision to pay the cost of the business to which we bind for an extended period of time in the current swing. We make a decision that remains to increase the rate of government spending in the coming year, apart from capital pay, about 54 billion from what is expected to occur in the current year. That's an amazing growth in Kingdom interests. At the same time as we discuss it, we do not consider how these funds are used, what services we receive back. We do not have a standard to measure the quality of the service we agree that we want the State and that all of us share in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u8	A respectable president. To be honest, I'd like to hear a little more or more specific comments about why the increase in government spending should be of concern to them now. If all of us agree that we are at the top of the economy, we should agree that more Kingdom spending is good. I'm not going to do what I say. A senator has heard from his point of view that people there always want to lower their taxes and always control the government's expenses. Also, there are differences between which taxes we are talking about, such as. to raise capital taxes. I don't see, perhaps simple, that it would help a lot to draw up the economic fluctuation to lower the capital tax compared to, for example. to lower the income tax. I don't think so. If we were to charge the income tax, I'd think the best way to make use of the tax reduction would be to slow down or get out of it would be to raise the person discount. I'd think a higher person discount would be the first choice if the tax reduction aims to contribute in the economy, i.e. Either drop down or hold it where it is. It seems to be the first option, but I have found unnecessary emphasis on taxes, such as capital tax, which, as I say, might be subtly, I don't think have the same effect. The personal discount is the first thing, isn't it? So these are really two questions: Why are oppositions or hesitations in increasing expenses? And: Is there not a personal discount the first tool we should use to soften the swing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u9	Madam President. To be perfectly clear, I am not a Catholic against raising certain financial expenses. I think there's a reasonable basis for that, and in fact, I've claimed it, both here and in writing, that there's a need for more money in the health system. I don't think anyone's gonna argue about it. I fear, however, that we are making a decision to expand, e.g. Health expenses without complying with the requirements for the services we want to be performed, that we do not have the right criteria for the quality of our ministry, whether in the health, education, or anything else. I warn that the State's budget is being increased just to create some fluke. What counts is what the money is about. It is now wise to engage in profitless investments. All economic evidence suggests it's wise, I don't talk about if it's only outside the capital area where the spell is the most. It is also recognized, however, that raising or lowering capital taxes is, of course, having significant effects, including on savings and savings and investments. A lower tax calls for higher investments. A lower tax also calls for greater savings and lower interest levels. This is how it stimulates the economy. Where, though, is the proman, and where is it reasonable to place the percentage, whether it is in 10, 15, 20 or 22%, there is another discussion. [[The president calls.]] We can take her. I'm not sure 22% is the right number.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u10	A respectable president. I would have wanted to continue a little anti-Answering note from the last talk, and it was very fun. I suggest this is the opinion of the 1st reduce of the economic and business committee and I want to start by briefly reviewing it. I'm going to try not to give this a lot of narrating to people, but, of course, the situation is that we're in the most devastating time crisis and, in fact, a time crisis which, in my opinion, is that it is possible to correct matters as large as it is. I think it means everybody, and it's because of the circumstances we're in, we got back in elections in October, and again this time pressure was even worse than last year. I think it's important that we be completely aware of that, because there's a general tendency to rush, to speed up all things. People want to do things as soon as they put pressure on others. I think it's a particularly strong policy from the government to a smaller part of the Generals to put the pressure there, and then there's really little understanding of that situation. There is little given to the fact that we generally have too little time at the General Assembly to do well with the work that the public requires of us that we do well. This is a general unpleasant problem, this time I had the luxury of volunteering for this work knowing in advance of complaint, and I reiterate that I consider this fact as no reason to doubt it. On the other hand, I feel that people need to face them, admit the problem, and state themselves ready to do something in order to meet it. Now the situation is even worse than usual, and this is an inevitable goal, but I think that two minutes will do it. Of course, the first part of the memory cannot take a position on the whole or the part of it. A memory of 1 things cannot take sides with all the factors presented in the reviews. I've crossed many of them, several of them, I don't even know what words to use, and I've been helped to distinguish them, but time simply isn't enough, so it's not ready at this level in my opinion, certainly not on my part. However, there are topics here that I trust to make a suggestion, and I'm going to do a little on them. First, it is that in the 14th percentage of the provisional rules of a social insurance policy law, there is a high-cost level of disability due to employment revenue in the calculation of income insurance. This netmark is considerably higher than it is in the law itself, as considered without regard to provisional regulations, much higher. I have to admit that I don't really know the story behind why this vacation target is on temporary grounds. I strongly assume that the lack of time has done so, and I have heard that once again there is a review in progress that should be taken into account. Away from the reason, I heard complaints at my time, as well as in the year, from microorganisms in the position that they are concerned that it will not be extended. They worry about this every year, and they wonder, " Will politicians listen to me this time? The answer to that question is usually: No. Since there is no need for people to be constantly wondering if they will be affected by this loss of income, at this time of the year, so this is a suggestion that instead of having this provisional budget, they will be taken out of the laws themselves and the provisional principle. I mentioned this at a committee meeting, which answered that there was some sort of revision going on somewhere. Well, that may be, but I strongly assume that the product of this review may as well be suggested to change the law as it is rather than cancel the provisional principle. I don't see that there's evidence against doing this, it's not a matter of substance change in the law itself, and there's no increase in the financial resources or in any way in the cost of change. This is simply so that in the next year, the poor do not have to wonder whether this will be extended or not, they can accept it as a fact until it is decided specifically to reverse it. Second, a 1st smaller section contributes to the delinquency of the pension of social security for employment. Now I am glad to have a little talk time that I needed earlier today. The fine category of people has provided a bill that is truly in harmony and that is well, but I'm going to go over the basics for this. On October 25, 2016, significant changes were approved in the social security section of the pension system. The system was simplified extremely much, which in itself is positive. The high complexity of the social security system is one of the root causes of the problem, in my opinion. It's hard for people to understand their rights. I think sometimes it's hard for a insurance agency to get this right. It's hard for us politicians to try to fix something because it takes a long time to get into it. In particular, if you are not personally experienced in dealing with this system, it is long before you realize how it works and simply for a long time to believe how much injustice is. I needed to hear the same sentence over and over again before I understood it because injustice like that doesn't fit right into your head, like a dollar against a dollar's impairment. It's so insane that you don't believe it's there, but it's over there with micro-germs. It was removed by this change, which, on its own, is good, i.e. for old-age pensioners, not for disability. The cutting still stands for the disability. There were different rules for different income categories, different rules for employment, pension income income and money revenues in their time, with varying leaves, varying proportions and percentages of things. It was simplified, so there was simply talk of income, the problem, that along the way they suggested that the vacation market be removed permanently. In the original bill, which later became legal, there was no easy - paying target defined above its head. It was beginning to cut 45% of the first crown that a pensioner would earn his way regardless of the source of income. Of course, people noticed. In fact, a local man recommended the highest standard. Ministers with special attention to the committee. V.E.G. A minister came to realize that this needed an opinion. I calculated at the time that for the changes made in 2016, there would be no harm in the commercial income of the people. free income target all over the place. I don't remember exactly who the number was, like, 10,000,1200, something like that, to make the situation worse when the changes were made in 2016. The cost of such changes is overwhelming. We're so lucky, though, to have what? 11th. Smoke. As a result, Bea Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson asked how the cost of delinquency would be affected in the social security system. He asked for disunition and received a very good, thorough answer that gives us sound guidance on what we can do where and for how much money we can do. It shows that the very interesting thing to do is to stop compromising social security entirely is simply too expensive, unfortunately. Then we're talking about hundreds of billions of dollars, don't remember if it's 45 or 48 a year, somewhere in that scale. Illegal amount of money. However, it was also found that a very small part of this was from employment. In fact, it was observed that for less than 2.5 billion a year, the pension of social security could be cut off. There is an extremely low number in connection with social security, and especially with budgets. I think it was 5.6 billion, or so if the microchip had been included, but because of simplifying this system in its time, and I understand that the survival of the microchip part of the social security system has been called on to raise the range of income money back to what it was for that change, 109,000 k. This bill suggests there will be 100,000, 9,000 dollars. lower than it was. By the time I remember, as it did earlier today, 109,000 bucks have. Stayed unchanged for a relatively long time, so that relative to inflation, it is very relaxed too. From that point on, it also states in the budget that the cost of the state's funds will be increased by that hundred thousand dollars. free income of about 1.1 billion. That's the difference between having 100,000 bucks. Free income markets and excluding the decrease in pension due to professional ridicule, 1.4 billion a year. It's also a very small amount, with the lower you see in the social security system. There are some reasons why we should do this. This may seem a radical idea, but it's not. This was mentioned by a committee when we asked about this that it may have been on a committee in Norway already. I haven't had it confirmed yet, but we were told on the Committee. As I've traced here, the cost of this doesn't worry about government funds, and it's quite likely a gain. Perhaps it is difficult to calculate in advance how much money a government fund would receive in tax pay with increasing employment initiative for the elderly, and it may be difficult to predict the magnitude of that increase. At least I know that. Could not connect to torrent %1. I know, however, that in 2007 it was examined. At that time, please note that there was another system and another price, and 29% of the senior citizens said that they would be involved in the jobs if the losses were not present. I think those numbers must have gone up since then. First, the number of senior citizens has increased. Second, I think it's worth 25,000. The current vacation target is much more discouraging than the system was at the time. I suppose so. I haven't asked anyone. There's a group of older citizens out there who want to get involved in business, but they don't do it because of the impairment, understandably, in my opinion. Business parties are not just about government income money or older citizens putting on hard business, nor is it about the opportunity for people to participate in human life. Business activities are part of the human life of very many people, so they are also about things like health and the like. As shown in the fine talk of the day. 8th yrs Smoke. So, Inga Sæland, before today, it is quite possible that the government fund would simply not be exposed to any of the expense of this change. It's just a good possibility, and now it's an opportunity to measure it. We have quite a number of numbers around it, though. It's pretty well kept in mind information about the seminary. If we make this change now, we can measure the increase in employment participation, measure some of the things around it, and even do further research if we choose to do so so that I might view this as an opportunity to try new ideas. An additional advantage in this approach is that it simplifys the system in my opinion more than raise the payoff target to 100,000. To raise it to 100,000 for one income party again, a little contrary to the objective of the law of last year, but if I think that it will run a little bit off the holiday line, it never contains more complex accounts. I would think that at least it simplified the system from the change to raise the payoff target to 100,000. It even simplifys the whole system. Defeature of the decline prevents, or at least makes it harder for authorities to cycle with the holiday goal, or allowing prices to reduce their proportion compared to other incomes. That's something I know that the poor must have had a lot more than enough, the way the rounding is doing things. This results in in insecurity, unpredictableness, and any subsequent problems that may result, but if the declines are simply removed, the authorities must go much further to restore the decline to that particular income party. There would probably be a loud discussion, and it would be more difficult to screw something small, jump up, or let prices eat it up. I'm glad that a group of people have presented this case as an independent bill, even though it appears here as a change in proposal. This is a point that needs a lot more discussion. I think people think it's a radical idea, but it's not. I hope that a group of people will have their bill agreed after further discussions at the Council on this point, for this is such a unique opportunity to try new things that may at first not appear to be very reasonable, but when they are better checked, they are. In this context, I have to mention one thing, although I don't want to involve the people's opinions in it because I just don't know them from that particular subject, the civil pay. It is another idea that often seems extremely radical. It means that people will simply receive unflinching payment from a treasure. If that sounds like a crazy idea, many people agree. Listen. These are all being experimented on in many areas around the world, and civil pay is particularly thought to be some kind of preparation for the future when machines, computers, are taking on many jobs, in general, only a relatively small number of jobs. Here we have a group, an older citizen, whose job party is normally low. We have a lot of information about the system we have now, and we can measure the increase in employment participation there, we can take some kind of step in testing and seeing what happens. This is also an opportunity. This is a complete petition with what is said before. I don't support this case because civil pay is in itself. I just feel like I'm here having a friendship with that subject. I think it's practical for that discussion, but regardless of the civil pay, I think it's a very reasonable change - I'm presenting it. I think I just finished that part for now. Then I'm going to have to do a little business on fiscal taxes. The bill suggests increase of capital taxes from 20% to 22%. Okay, that doesn't sound particularly crazy. However, at the same time as reported on this plan, the proposed changes in the underlying capital income tax system itself were also reported, and particularly for the taxpayers, whether they would be Name or Real interest. There is a fundamental difference. I don't know exactly how much time I'm supposed to spend explaining the difference. I personally have been caught up in the matter of listening to Congress and not understanding what the speaker is saying, but he could briefly explain it. I'm not sure I can quickly explain it, but I'm going to try. Name fruits are derived from prices as well. When inflation is high, the fiscal tax from the name-growing tax of what is added by inflation alone, i.e. The insurance policy. In real - life growth, however, this can be said indiscriminately, so that it is some kind of insurance solution to fiscal taxes. As far as I'm next able, the concept is unique, and I merely reiterate that it is not available, but it has been discussed and discussed in the Committee. Likely, this is what was discussed most in the committee. Therefore, the 1st smaller parts support this increase, but they are aware that, of course, it would be much better if we discussed all of this. It's weird to have a 2 percentage change when the percentage must be excessive, if not entirely, depending on the underlying tax system. When a radical system change is thrown forward along such a small scale of capital taxation, it is a bit confusing the discussion. This suggestion may never exist, and then we have spent a considerable amount of time discussing it without cause, and that in itself is a critical waste of time at worst. According to this, 1st memory calls for less things by the highest. The minister of finance or any other government power, whoever they are, make their plans clear as soon as possible because of making such a call as what other factors may cause their own expense. Changes in the tax percentage itself are causing community costs, much less how the tax is calculated. All this costs. The changes themselves cost, even if they are good. It would have been better to say simply in advance: This is the change we're going to make, increase the tax to 22%, and maybe you can argue about the percentages of yourself and the holiday target which is, in fact, totally related to a concept and also need to reason along, a change that I support, i.e. ... toraisedthefreemark. No matter how you look at it, it would be better than talking about it at the council if it was all discussed when your ideas are complete and generally written out so that there is something written to talk about. Finally, I'm only going to consider the greater portion. Part 1 supports in advance the discussion of a section of the majority of the European Commission's list of interest markets, taxation of methadone cars and tax incentives for eco-friendly public transport, the section on Iceland's impervious insurance, it had the most convincing documents I've ever read from reviews, and then the Othersoperities mainly involved in technical activities such as the validation principle and the like. There is no need to discuss this specifically. Then, the 1st small things quickly support the United States' suggestions on not having had time to sit over them properly, but quickly, they work wisely and logically. Finally, I also assume that more adjustments are made, whether from the councilman here or from the rest of the council, for which there has been no considerable time to discuss this matter because of circumstances and how the General Assembly works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u11	A respectable president. I'm on the side of this case right now. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is involved in these matters, particularly in the off-country markets. I point out that in this context, Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson has won a very good report for an older citizen in Reykjavík. This report is available on the website of older citizens, and it basically shows in black and white that it will not cost at all. In a society where there is a need for workers, it must be very strange to say to a particular group that he is not really allowed to work. It's amazing, and it's sort of incomprehensible. The second thing he came in on is about even more ugly things, about desperate vacation limits. They are capitalism, a capitalist who is completely incomprehensible because it affects so many other incomes, causing chain - working impairments that such a system has been invented indiscriminately. Punishing sick people with such a strange system is strange. That's why it's very good to simplify the system. It was simplified by older people, and the need, of course, is something to do with micropigs. In many ways, I support civilian pay. I'm looking at the idea, I haven't quite got my arm around it. She's been experimented on, and I've been trying to keep an eye on it. It's just cool. Then, in terms of insurance or taxes on interest, I think that's all right, but I can never understand that if you have low interest, you may be losing, not really getting any interest. Why isn't the interest just outside the inflation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u12	A respectable president. I thank the first part that I heard was more likely to be answered. For my interest in interest in interest of interest, this is why when I first heard of the idea of taking money taxes from realism rather than because of its name, I thought it quickly, after studying it a little bit, rather logical because of these effects. A senator mentions. If the tax is taken from names right now and inflation is high, the real value of the deposit may be reduced directly by taxes. I find that very strange. I don't think it's the least awkward thing about using a name as a tax product. However, as mentioned in the Committee, the use of physical growth as a tax product is quite complex. In the past, something that was now dropped out of me was called, an accounting method that expected a change in prices, and it is certain that foreign investors were very strange, completely crazy. I understood in the Committee that some such practice would really have to be done to make it work. I reiterate that I'm not against insurance, but I think it's important that it's not a duty, it's a choice. Still, solutions like insurance thinking are indiscriminately complicated. That's what I'm most concerned with on insurance on an apartment loan. This is so complicated that the borrower usually doesn't quite understand exactly what he is doing, and that is an independent problem. I think it's a very complex change. I'm not sure that it will be impossible to resist the effects of illness. A senator mentions. But the effect is real if there is severe inflation. Now I don't have any more time to get into this, but maybe I'll find out in the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u13	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I understand that, but insurance usually gets on older citizens who take the least reliable investment and, as a result, will end up in it for the most long time. The other thing I'd like to figure out is how you want this idea developed. You talk about civilian pay, how do you want to transfer it? This discussion would have to be about that. I'd like to know how much this is supposed to be and how you think it. As I'm saying, it's more of a senior citizen. Imagine that, that's an older citizen's requirement and disability for every year to plan for future inflation. We are, in effect, required to be financial geniuses because we are to be aware of an advance trend in order to get the right calculation and not have a impairment of July 1st of August, the Great Dread Day. If there's a requirement for us to try to calculate this, I don't understand that those who are in this day-to-day, like banks and other institutions, can't calculate this and the state just one, two and three. It's weird that we should be able to do this if they can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u14	A respectable president. I've learned that even if someone wears a suit and speaks well, they may not be able to calculate all the numbers mentioned in the conversation. Hv. A senator asks how we want to do this civilian pay. The short answer is: I don't know. Pirata's policy is to examine this possibility. Also, we have suggested in the past a plagion arrangement for this to be recorded and examined. The idea in itself is not practical, as the situation is today. In fact, it would be rather simple to calculate the civilian pay so that they could sustain a person, but it is not practical today compared with the figures of state funds and population. This is not too difficult to calculate in rough terms. On the other hand, we are thinking about the future, for now we are faced with the fact that computers and equipment will continue to make people unnecessary in all kinds of work that they have so far, although absolutely necessary. Some translations, interpreters, and so on, something that a few people would have thought two or three decades ago, would ever be a time when we would not need someone in the flesh to do that work ◯ while technology is doing this. She's taking over one of the most amazing things, and it's just going to be a continuation. It is predicted that future employment activities will be very small. The prophecy may not be fulfilled, but if it remains, it is very important that we have already examined these benefits. It is our current policy that we are in the future and must now examine the benefits to see if this will work out in the future if and when that situation arises.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u15	Madam President. I did not succeed in coming up after a fine talk. Senator. He went into civilian pay, which, of course, can never be a goal, but can include solutions to the problem or the change we are facing, i.e. how we react to the insane technological changes that occur in the digital world. Knowledge and inventions now grow at a rate of power and activity. Of course, there have been a number of ways in which they can come, including the civilian pay. Milton Friedman spoke of a negative income tax. There are various ways, and I agree that this needs to be considered and considered. But I'm not sure that we're at the time when we're supposed to go on this just to do some experiment. Because we're even. I think there is much more to consider about the future tax collections. If jobs disappear, if people do not work for 40 hours a week, but maybe only five or ten or none, we are quite ready to find other income institutions. Therefore, various countries, e.g. Americans and British, began to wonder, " Should I just start collecting taxes instead from a production unit, of the amendment itself? ' I think our most important challenge is to observe, not to experiment, but to observe what is being written and done in these events all over the world. It's the only way we have to make sure that the government can survive the concordance and the civilian pay as a result.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u16	A respectable president. I just want to get it straight, as I mentioned in my speech, that it's like I called it a petition. This is not why I believe in the change I suggest. It's just that this is suitable for me to just dip the toe into the water to see what happens. We are in a good position to test and measure it, but the main evidence was said there earlier, and I refer back to the committee's opinion of the evidence of making this change, i.e. I'm sorry, but I don't want you to do that. I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't mention a civilian salary in my committee party, and that was a conscious decision. It is always hard to predict the future, especially when we are living in a time when we do not know exactly what our children will do when they reach our age. We don't even know what field to work. We do not know what knowledge and education will be the most important thing in this regard. We can guess. I guess math will always be classic. Likely, philosophy will always be very useful. Likely, we will need to know how to read and write. We can give ourselves a few things, but as soon as we're in a special program, we're on a very high level of ice when we plan to predict what future professions will look like. It is also a question of how the economy itself develops. All of this is what needs to be charted, that's what our proposal is about, i.e. to map and explore this possibility. If machines take over these jobs, they tell themselves that some people will own these machines. In other words, if this development is to take place, it will quickly appear as if it would result in an enormous balance of property and, in fact, that property would become the focus of the economy rather than of employment. That is, in fact, the fundamental change I see in my mind that, in a private financial system, I would finance some solutions such as civilian pay. The economy itself would have to change, that's right, because civil pay is considered to be a response to that possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u17	Madam President. Thank you so much for this. You actually ended up with what I was wondering about, we don't know what the change will be like, but we know it's going to be huge. We are familiar with the first industrial revolution, where there was also a power growth in technology via a steam engine. We have seen extraordinary social changes, almost all residents of the United States moved to rural cities in one century. We also know that this growth in the digital world is at its rate. We're on a curve that just goes up vertically so we don't even have very much time to think about what it's gonna be like, and we have to be on our toes, I agree. But I want to pray. A senator to continue a little where he ended. I agree that we need to consider what will be taxed in the future. What will be the rightful advantage of the owners of the enterprise? Whatever the case, how much money is to be paid, salary, or other? Got it. Is it not necessary for a senator to discuss these things now? These changes we don't follow, they're always harder to make, and they take some of the people they may have legitimate expectations and think they can have.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u18	A respectable president. I am kind and obliged to continue with this discussion. One thing I think is certain, people will create things, people who don't have to work, but they still take on jobs, they do all kinds of things. I sometimes think of myself, what I would do if I didn't have to make money. I'm a programmer myself when I'm not at a council, enjoying it very much, and I've been all my adult life, and actually I'm thirsty from my teens as well. If I didn't have to worry about anything, for example. I'd still program it. I'd probably program just as much, possibly more, but I'd program things that no one would really want to pay me for, that wouldn't exactly be one customer who would have some particular business interest in it. I would program things like a system to add democracy, a system to analyze official data and set them up in a beautiful grave with colors and stuff. I'd always use my powers to do something creative. This is what people do in my industry when they're good or they sell their business and they do good after it. People continue to do something creative. As I say and repeat, this is a petition on the other thing I said about the violation of the social security pension. The point is, there's people out there who can work and win, of course, far from any senior citizen, but there's a group that's stuck in this system and can't win, of course. I wondered what kind of creative force we were releasing. There's a chance to test it in one way, dive the toe into the water, see what happens. There's nothing to be expected of that. In fact, it may not work because the amount we need to test this out, even if the more the older citizen's income would be empty, it is not high that it does not pay to try.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u19	Madam President. I recommend members of Committee 2 my share, but he appoints the members of the Continent to the Economic and Business Committee. Other smaller items initially want to reflect disappointment with the arrangements taken by the Committee and the General Assembly on the topic under discussion with a bill for budgeting in 2018. By handing a few days to address a professional committee of the General Assembly as important as it is important, professional practices are thrown to the calmness and the attendance of the Parliament at work, especially to the ruling parties, to the weak and almost ignored. 2nd smaller things consider this to be an incorrigible way, describing a firm opposition to the practice. Madam President. I'm really, really important to say this here. True, I made an agreement to make an attempt to handle these big cases each year because of special circumstances. Our experience now shows that this is something we are not supposed to do. Let us see again that a new government takes over late this year, we have to find another way to win the big issues that are so important to the lives of the people of the country. The Council is not merely a label for the Commission for the greater part's proposals. Indeed, the role of the government is something other than to provide an assembly of giant bills, just as we are now doing. Madam President. The proposal for a bill to legalize the various laws of the budget for 2018 shows that the Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir's government does not intend to use the tax and reform system to counteract the growing inequities of society. Inequities have increased rapidly in this country over the last few years. Today, the total share of the total 5% of the population of the country's population is as large as the total holding of 95% of its population. In the years before the collapse of the economy, there was a high level of inexorability in this country and much higher than in other Western lands, and then the collapse was reduced. This includes: See the book Ungastered in Iceland, published during the days following Stefán Ólafsson and Kristjánsson Söljánsson. It shows that about two - thirds of the increase in the rate of collapse is explained by the high financial wealth in the upper part of the income. The majority of the remaining third is explained by the change in government policy on taxes and benefits. After a collapse, this was completely reversed, as a growing equation of one third of the government's policy on tax and reforms was clarified, and two thirds of the decrease in capital gains. But now, as with the actions of the two governments that have worked after a collapse, the trend of economic collapse has again begun, and the government's actions have intensified inexorably. Governments have controls that, at the same time, can soften and amplify the balance of income and possessions in society. The question is, How or how do they use these controls? Clearly, the policy of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is that the controls should not be used in order to increase the equation in 2018. The ASI government concluded that the ASI budget study shows that the tax burden of pay paid people in the past 20 years has increased and the more money costs are low. ▪ Not responding to this trend in the budget but continuing on the same course by reducing expenses for child development, growth reform, and housing. The level of chemistry will continue to increase as the equality of the tax system is further reduced, as the conclusion indicates. Government tax policy indicates how they want to live in the public and how governments want to see society developing. The role of the tax system and its effect on property and income distribution are just as important as its income share. Similarly, French economist Thomas Piketty in his best - selling book, published in 2014, suggests that there will be step - apart financial taxes to increase the equation in the world. He believes that the tax system is the most effective instrument in the community to achieve the goal of reaching people's health. OECD, the National Institute of Economic and Development, published in December 2014 a study showing that increasing inequities reduces economic growth. These research and other respected studies show that more equations lead to more fairer societies and to economic and economic prosperity. The changes in recent years here on the child- and growth reform system, housing improvements, credit taxes and income tax, as well as the deduction of resource taxes, all have had negative effects on income balances. The results of international studies showing a negative impact on communities, as well as international analyses, which show the clear impact of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir income balance measures, should provide sufficient evidence to abandon policy over the past few years and should be avoided by further stabilisation of the mid-wrecking factors. Other smaller things are supported by the rise in fiscal taxes. The share of entire income of high income groups has grown considerably after a crash. Between 2012 and 2016, there was an overall increase of 24% in income income and 58% respectively. A lower part of criticism, however, is that the increase is minor and does not result in making the most money money money for the most money earners. The increase from the lower level of the income tax system is only 0.66 percentage points while 8.64 percentage points are still up to the higher income tax level. In addition, a reduction in 2 less portion criticism that as soon as there was a report of an increase in income taxation, plans to change the product were also reported. In particular, taxation would be considered to be a real product of capital gain, but if that is the result, the change probably means loss of money for the state's funds, but the improved status of the most money funded. Madam President. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Commission contributes to the increase in the payoff target for the fiscal tax. The Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, in answer to me earlier today, indicated that as an agent should be pleased with the change where the tax system was being used. When I'm talking about the government using the controls they have to improve the balance in the community, I'm talking about improving the status of those who have children to those who do not have children, improving the status of poor families, so they can, for example, so that they can. Make sure that their children engage in leisure activities, that I don't talk about music school or anything like that. I'm not talking about using the equations just to make sure that the people who are in the bank book at 7 to 8 million don't have to pay money money. It can be fine in itself, but not priorities that we as superiors want to see. That's the tax change, and that's what I'm talking about. The head of the Economic and Business Committee feels that it is an equation. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir suggests exactly the same price of child reform as did the government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, but the criteria for child development have been changed slightly. Parents with less than 242 you. K. a month's pay will replace 225 you with impaired child support. K. This year. First - child payment is slightly increased by 1,447 k. per month and payments rise by 1,758 k. every month for each child thereafter. That's all there is, and it's extraordinary, in view of the fact that child support has been added by 23% to the real value since 2008. Since 2013, the number of recovery families has decreased by some 12 thousand. And the system is still being weakened. There has been great agreement on the value of support for child families in the North and around Europe, but right control has reduced their impact and policy in the government under the leadership of the left green. Children's benefits in the north are fixed up with the sum of a child while support in Iceland depends on the number and age of children, the income of parents, and the marital status. A lower share suggests that evolution will be reversed, and child support will be adapted to the North American system where child reforms have the responsibility to balance the standard of living for people with a similar income but a variable amount of living. In Iceland, by Stefán Ólafsson and Kristjánsson Sölvánsson, the book Ungained in Iceland discusses the effects of child improvement and the standards used in the relief process. In fact, as the case of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir promotes more poverty among working people, much child damage is immediately reduced by low incomes. A couple who have both paid jobs but who have a low salary get small child benefits in this country, and this is one reason why their family has no children. This is a known fact and no further analysis is required. The government does not have to wait for action, and it should increase child reform immediately and change the terms of distribution. 2 smaller items suggest changes aimed at taking steps towards increasing child improvement. The first step will be the change in reference numbers to the 3rd issue of 4 mg. a-arms 68. g. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. A further financial status of young people and the weakening of the children's reforms and growth reforms system has undoubtedly influenced the decline of childbearing in this country. Young people's standard of living is now worse than their parents expected, and young people's housing situation has deteriorated. Thus, the level of government support for child - rearing families is a huge step back. Along with the so - called correction during the last terms, the government reduced interest rates, lost pedophile value, and added to the harsher income cuts. People who have the right to make up their payments slightly lower, but there is a much greater decrease in growth, since real - estate prices have increased considerably. Many homes are left behind because of this, with much less provision. People already say, " Yes, but people have much more in their homes,'they say, " There's much more in their apartment. ' But there's nothing going to sell these apartments. There's nothing to go to the box profit. Just ordinary people who have to make a living. By reducing the housing reform system and support to underpayers and average carers and less interest improvements, and at the same time, property prices are increasing, the revenues are reduced. It's not a complicated example. It's not that difficult to change either. The idea of improving growth is to increase the resources of those with low income, medium income, and share in the high interest costs laid on people by deciding to keep the least independent currency in the world. This equation wants the government to weaken even more. There is a 2 - year - old who counts as a 2 - year - old incorruption and does not benefit people with low incomes or intermediate incomes, and makes changes. Another small part warns against the plans for the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is involved in reducing taxes and increasing expenses at the top of the economy. 2 smaller items consider the need to respond to a great need for infrastructure, but it needs to be financed by permanent income instead of irregular revenues. The ASI budget, the economy, and others have pointed out that the government's operation is in irons when it is overlooked the impact of the economy. Inevitably, economic management will cause public damage in the form of a worsening dress. Madam President. Icelandic society faces tremendous challenges involving climate change and their impact on environment and society. It is a priority to set the economy in line with the changing world conditions, reevaluate economic standards, and establish climate back into business. The autumn government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson stressed the value of green taxes, but the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir falls from her plans for double carbon pay. They're now suggested to rise by 50%. It is estimated that the state's budget will be 2 billion. ... according to the plan of the previous government for this. The incentive to switch to eco-friendly transport is reduced, and the amount of money taken together is reduced in the same way. There is no doubt that if you are able to achieve a successful battle against global warming, there must be a reduction in emissions. In order for a relationship to reach green taxes, they need to be considered in the context of other tax changes. Thus, green taxes do not weigh heavily on vulnerable groups and do not add to one hand but take along with the other. The government's purpose to continue to give discounts for car remuneration is an action that counteracts the aim of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The General has agreed and given good notice that the discount falls on January 1, 2018. Some days before their implementation of the law, it is suggested that half of the discount be extended for another year. It's a proposal that doesn't hold a opinion. I guess the car rent has long been expected to change in its plans for next year's business. Exploited questions also arise about sectoral tax support and the impact of the sponsors on the competitiveness of the articles. It has been claimed that these discounts encourage rental rents to buy eco-friendly cars, but it is wrong because prices are not paid by electrical cars and eco-friendly cars. With this discount, it is being encouraged to do so and to reduce the likelihood that rental cars will go further into inviting customers into electric cars. Another smaller section, described above, describes opposition to the bill. This means that 2 less items will be submitted in accordance with the opinion of the 3rd Environment. since there has been no time to acquire the ancients. It's simply because, Madam President, it's all worked in record speed. To make adjustments to child reform criteria and make adjustments to their criteria for calculating the figures, you need to consider the figures and figures from the Ministry on both. That work is being done and will probably be done in all respects, both for growth improvements and for child reforms, for a period of 3. The changes in criteria await that time. On the other hand, the Conspiracy and its representative in the budget suggests adjustments on the remuneration gate, which will then clear up these secondary changes that occur at 3rd. which I expect to be accepted because they are wise and good and will improve the terms of the people of the land and will contribute to the success of the battle against the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u20	Madam President. I guess you can consider the bill we're discussing here as the first deposit, the first payment of the Independence Party to the left movement for the use of five Ministers for four years. At the very least, the policy that the Independence Party has referred to is not too much to be recognized, and it was thought, in this bill. It is all about taxes and fees. I haven't counted how many these increases are, it's hard to realize that, but there's quite a lot of them. And not one drop, not one tax reduction in the bill as the Independence Party led by the Supreme Opportunity. Secretary of finance has introduced and we are speaking today. In addition to the ups and downs, I'm going to go briefly below, it's interesting that it's confirmed by the bill that it's not on top of the highest level. The secretary of finance to fulfill the promises he made and signed in January 2016 that could be reached by a bargain agreement, a promise of a reduction in insurance fee. But insurance fees are known to the highest level, and they have been held there despite significant reductions in unemployment, to the extent that so much is said and the world's highest level. Also at that time, a minister of finance gave a formal promise that the price would be reduced in a certain way, including the cost. by a reduction that was to occur at the beginning of this year, the year 2017, that did not occur. And now we see that it does not stand to remedy in a new year. Before I go back to the insurance fee, I'm going to trace to the government's short plan for raising the various amounts of taxes and taxes. Interestingly, a carbon bill will be increased by 50%, Mr. President, 50% in one step, and the story will follow that it is only the beginning, it will rise again, and probably again, and there is also a chance to invent more green taxes and raise the green taxes that have already been invented. Of course, it's an incredibly large jump, a 50% rise, that's the point. But then the government points out that this is not so much because the last government has intended to raise this by 100%, and this is actually a reduction from what was introduced in the previous release of a budget bill by 2018, which is, of course, reasoning that does not hold water. What remains is that we have a government, the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, indicated an increase of one set amount by 50% between the years. It's natural to be just the top of the iceberg, because the bill lists the number of fees and taxes currently to rise. There's registration fees, they're going up. Check fees are rising. Permits are raised. Radio charge's going up. Climate charge is rising. Oil charge goes up. Fuel costs rise. A kilogram's charge is rising and, of course, the price on alcohol and tobacco. And all kinds of things. All this goes up. This is said to offset the price effect, i.e. Increase in price balance, 2017. This continues the roundness that we have seen today for decades, and we, by my count, were designed to get out, where the government and the government are sharing in the maintenance of chain-based prices, chain-based inflation. In 2014, a team was appointed to find ways to detect the automatic index increases, as it was called. This was part of the work of the then government on decommissioning insurance. This specific feature was performed at the Ministry of Presidency, but most of them were loved by the Ministry of Economics, where they are still in progress, hopefully, if they have not only joined the papermaker as soon as possible. But this joint was at least smart and introduced policy and ways of reducing automatic index increases, getting out of this chain-acting inflation. A large joint and vital factor were to be the failure of the public to contribute to the maintenance of inflation. On the contrary, it tried to restrain the rise in prices. This place is completely gone. All these petals are being promoted, raising everything that can be raised. The result? The result, of course, is the rise of prices and the loans of the households, the rise in prices, and the number of loans in the homes rising. I'll give you one example, Madam President. One already seen example is an increase in a special price, a transfer fee laid on dairy farmers and cow farmers. They pay a price to collect the milk. That price has been 4.70 k. It has now been reported to increase to 5.10 K, a significant increase in proportion. It is the result of these high costs, especially the carbon and other fuel costs, so that farmers can be affected. I guess they'll have to raise the price on the milk or get a raise in favor of this, etc., Mrs. President. The state is here giving the concert a new year. All these remunerations, of course, will occur, such as the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, who knows well just keep rolling into the economy and raising prices in the various products in addition to these government repercussions. Then there's the fiasco rise. It has largely discussed an increase in capital gain tax, a 10% increase in tax rate. It is said, as the Treaty puts it, by permission of a president, to make the tax system more righteous regardless of the origin of income. Ideally, tax rates should be equal regardless of how the income comes into existence. It seems completely forgotten to calculate this problem to the end or that those who wrote this government contract were not completely aware of how this tax works. Because those who have made a living on income in one form or another do not just pay money from those earnings, they fall on other taxes. There is no one - and this was specifically discussed on the committee and confirmed by visitors - who earn money, so to speak, is the living bread, as it were, in one form or another that pays only 20% taxes. Consider, for example, the one who runs a small business is even a monotonous with a small business for a time of business, a trader, for example. The person may rely on the business to produce the rest, make profits, and make the money, which is said to make a profit of the business. What, then, does the person pay the taxes? It's only 20%? No, it does first pay 20% of the company's income tax, then 20% of the capital tax falls on top of it. The overall taxation rate is 36%, after which the rate of increase is 37.6% paid by the person. Well to mark - this is the person who has taken a real risk and who is not at ease with him that he is benefiting from his business. So that despite the risks and despite success, the individual would still have to pay 37.6% taxes. Then we can take an example of an older citizen who lives in a life savings program that the person himself has arranged for. What, then, is the final tax rate, a real tax rate? Of course, it depends on the interest rate and the inflation. In fact, it takes a considerable head position to survive the interest industry. But make an example. Suppose an older couple owned a home and managed to pay for it in 40 years and had it fully acquired, viewed it as a pension fund. They sell the house, and they have 100 million left. Let's say that interest is 5%, but inflation at the same time 3%. Then there are actual incomes, the real income for every two million a year. But 20% of the capital tax is paid by 5 million. In other words, it is not taken into account that the head position needs to be maintained. Or there are people who still owned the house but rented it out, thus making their income. Of the 2 billion. K. is 1 million paid for by tax, of this 2 billion. K. income is 1 million paid for tax. In this case, there is actually a financing tax 50%. After the government's rise, he'd be 55% in this case. If inflation occurs, all of this may change rapidly. In fact, financier tax under these circumstances can exceed 100%. You may find that paying more than 100% taxes is a problem. It was discussed in the work of the Committee how this tax had been originally planned when it was applied. We received an interesting review explaining this and why it would have been decided at the time to have only a 10% tax rate in different countries where the rate is higher. This is because it was decided to move on with a simple arrangement and no recovery efforts unlike those in countries where the tax rate is higher. At the time, this lower percentage produced relatively more money for the State than the same tax in other countries, where the ratio is even much higher, but all sorts of complications, all sorts of deductions, and complications that made this much less certain. This is in harmony with what happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, described as his opinion or religion in the past that moderation in the tax can lead to more money for the state's funds. Then you wonder, " What is my situation? ' A senator has landed, preaching changes, talking about the bill that seems to violate what he thinks is right and reasonable. So I encourage members of the greater part who agree with the assessment. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son to work with me and others between conversations to make more sense in this bill, so that income for government funds will become even greater and, in any case, the status of the taxpayers, whether there are older citizens or some who are trying to make something new, start a business, become more reasonable, so that we support the terms of the government contract to pay more righteous, was the word, the tax was the tax, regardless of the source, but will not be punished for either savings or making money and making something new. You're wondering, it's kind of ensuing, it's the basic conclusion of these changes all, that this is not exactly the right thing for those who want to build up something new, standing in what is called innovation. The government was often used by the government as a new creation in the government covenant. But it is as if with many other features of this covenant and with the formation of the government, one thing is said, and so is another. Just see the example of the Neo - made man how he gets out of the changes presented here. The person pays all the money to create something new, a job for himself, and perhaps more, not paying himself more off from the company than the company does, but the tax on the income goes up, and at the same time, the person will have to make more money in a pension fund than is betrayed for the correction promised on the insurance bill. Not only that, but insurance costs are also put on the extra payments, the extra pensions. The person really increases what he needs to pay for, which is, of course, the tax on a job. At the same time, all the fees he or she has to pay, not only the fees that must be paid to the state for all of this that I traced before, the visas and the check fees, and the registration fees and climate charges and oil charges and all of this, but also the prices, because as I could, these were turned into the prices. All fronts are being punished by the people with the changes we address here. Is it really possible to promote new material creations, promoting new and varied activities? I would have thought it would have the opposite effect. I've got a suspicion. The chairman of the board agrees with me. And finally, Madam President, the danger of raising taxes, just as the remuneration grew, continued to turn into the economy, with negative consequences. There I'm talking about the real dangers and people have previously discussed that the increase in income taxes leads to growth. When it comes to the price of money, problems are like those described at times. A market price is paid, as it were. Money is the market price. This intervention encourages an increase in prices, as when taxes are raised on other products, e.g. The food, it's gonna roll at the price. Wouldn't it be more reasonable, Madam President, that interest would simply be lower? I think the problem is that interest has been way too high in Iceland. If there were normal interest rates, there would be no need to worry about people having too much interest, but by this means the State is actually promoting growth. Well, I guess it's the opposite of growing up, and it's going to be the strangest cycle, which is what it is. A committee chairman may be able to explain to me how he envisions to work if he comes up here to answer. Is the idea that if interest increases are due to increase tax prices, increase interest rates, and this cycle continues, income from tax, fueling interest rates that force the State to pay for higher interest rates? It's like the actions we're having here have not been planned to come to an end, Madam President. One more thing before I close this up for a while - the home income market for pension workers that have been discussed in the discussion. The suggestion is that there are 100 of them. K. We will, as we did in a campaign, exert ourselves for the loss of this peak, and commercial income does not interfere with pension money. Sounds to me like I got allies in it, including... I hope enough members of the committee and many at the council will be able to make that possible. Finally, what I mentioned earlier, I hope that the Chairman of the Committee and others who may share my concerns about the effects of these changes will be gained to reevaluate them in the work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u21	Mr. President. It was interesting to listen to a talk. paritaprevir The winners of the Middle Party's Chairman, Gunnlaugsson Gunollson. I have much to agree with what he said. What, on the other hand, is going through me, chief. Mr President, there's a hurry. A senator is opposed to the bill and the changes being made. Let's call it a day. What I can't figure out, though, and I haven't figured it out since the Central Party was born and since the campaign, it hasn't changed, and it hasn't happened here in a Senate hall that helps me, is the Central Party's policy on tax issues. That's why I'd love to get an answer to that, so that we can continue talking about tax policy in general and who it should be: Who is, for example. The middle category's policy when it comes to the tax percentage of capital incomes? 10, 20, 15%? What's the point? A senator till and the squad? How do you like it? A senator conducts the income tax system? How should growth reforms and child benefits play with the individual income tax system? Is the senator in favor of some tax-based incentives in the system to promote energy exchange, to provide energy exchange programs that most or many members of the council who are now involved in agreeing, to succeed? That's what I'm talking about. A senator, e.g. In favor of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u22	Mr. President. I had hoped to do so. A senator would explain how he believed that what he preached here would be compatible with what he had before and would even repeat in his speech earlier, but instead we can discuss the policy of the Middle Party, that's all right if you have a problem. In such a situation, a senator feels that it is more comfortable. It's very clear. The Central Party's policy on tax issues, such as other matters, is a rational policy. There we base on reason rather than on some foreword from books or doctrines of liberals or socialists. Thus, in each case, we can determine the circumstances and the best results in the form of a trust fund and, at the same time, where we will achieve the best balance. You could say that things like the Laffer repercussions are like that. A senator well knows the value of such food. At some point, we can achieve a critical limit of the total economy, overall impact, the limitation of public quality of life, whether that quality of life is ensured by having enough funds to live up to the health care we want to see, etc., or by having the motivation for valuables. The best, Mr. President, in everything and everything. A senator knows this is that it doesn't have to be successful. We do not necessarily have to sacrifice health care for the motivation. Like what? A senator pointed out in his speech: If we are successful in doing good if we use our rationalism in taxing, this can result in a further increase in government income, even if the ratio declines. In other words, this can be achieved at the same time, both in this positive motivation and in the highlighting of government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u23	Mr. President. With all due respect for what's happened. I'm no closer for the Central Party tax policy, unless it's just a rational policy. Yeah, yeah, I think we're all at the councilroom trying to figure ourselves out at least. Faith that we are reasonable in our thinking and that our course is reasonable. But let's leave it in the middle. I'm just asking simple questions. Counts 'em out. A senator, e.g. If we're talking about the Laffer account, that the tax per capita should be considerably lower? That we're supposed to turn it down to 10%? If I get the answer to such questions, maybe we can keep talking because we're going to win this bill between the 2nd and 3rd. I also think it is important to know the policy of the Central Party when it comes to paying taxes when we are trying to implement a energy exchange program that was a great deal of solidarity here last spring and was thought very important that we were going to achieve it. Is it a rational policy to resort to such taxes? If so, why is it unwise to raise carbon bills, e.g. 50 percent? I have my opinion. I've described them as doubts. But the reason why I believe this is possible is because I trust it and believe that in the years to come, we will also lower taxes. at the bottom or lower level of the income tax. But again, Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir If I value Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, which I don't agree with more than agree with, I simply wish to find answers to simple questions: Who is the taxprofen to be on capital tax returns? What about the individual income tax system? [[The president calls.]] How should they play together in child support? When it comes to implementing a energy exchange program, how should or should headily apply tax motivation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u24	Mr. President. I'm sure I'll do that work with a bit of what. A senator trying to calculate or guess, there will never be more than a guess, the best percentage of capital taxes and try the same thing with other taxes. I don't believe in the liberalism I think it is. A member of the body who is truly committed, which means that it is always better to lower taxes. But in some cases it is better to lower taxes in order to achieve the full effect I attributed to the above. In this case it seems to me that this increase is damaging, that the government does not necessarily give more money, even less, as was done well at the Committee's work, where it was considered how this tax was originally thought. At the same time, he is an unreasonable and discouraging, negative force against thepayers. Talk about motivation, why not? A senator specifically asked about them: I truly am a source of positive motivation in the tax system. But I'm not as opposed to negative impulses as they introduce me here. I don't think they work as well. I like it, for example. It's a good plan to extend the tax rate on environmentally friendly cars, since we're talking about the environment in this context. That's a positive impulse. But to punish people for driving a car that, anyway, needs to continue doing so, I think that is really nothing more than a tax raise. There is an increasing penalty for the general population, a penalty for those with reduced income, as they also have to get their way more and less - than - proportionly to the population of the country, since they usually have to drive by longer distances. Such negative impulses are in my view for harm. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would agree with me about this as well as with what he mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u25	A respectable president. Listening to what I've been doing has been fine for me. A senator when he's in a position of government. I'm gonna leave it in a committee party or something. A senator, a third minority opinion, by permission of a president, says: It is surprising that in the days of unprecedented economic surges, the government is acting out with nothing more than taxes and paybacks and extra curses without a single reduction. I was wondering if I'm getting the wrong idea. I've understood things so that when it's growing - it's a certain theory that people believe in the different ways - and the economic situation is up to, you shouldn't let the taxes down. When the economic crisis goes down, you should not raise taxes. On the contrary, you should lower them. Pick it up when it goes up. I was now critical of a little tax down in the last few years of my life when I was at the council, during the season of 2013-2016. But now it seems clear, and I wondered why. A senator agrees that we are at the top of the pace. I'll think about it. A senator agrees with me that it should just lower taxes or at least do something to stimulate the economy, whether with increased national expenses or other. And then, of course, we'd argue about how the tax collectors would like to go on. I'd like to see an increase in character discount myself. But I think this funny line is because I think it implies that you shouldn't raise taxes when there's an unprecedented economic incident. I would've thought it was the other way around. That's when you're supposed to raise taxes. Perhaps we should be lowering taxes now because we are no longer in an unprecedented swing, but we are at this height. I wondered, " What do I think? ' That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u26	V.E.G. President. I just have to admit, it's right around the corner. Senator. I noticed this myself earlier when I was preparing for the talk, that I might not have said it quite well enough. His counsel is correct, but so is the understanding he offered at the end. What is meant by this is that the circumstances that called for an increase in certain taxes, to make up the insurance policy, to cope with problems in the government, and especially in the labour market, would no longer exist but would be the State's position on the contrary to all other and better, and would no longer justify this dramatic rise that has come to face with problems that have gone past. Just like that. A senator specifically notes that we are at the top of the economy or that we are just over the top, likely, and that we begin to lean ahead. That's true too. Under these circumstances it is desirable for governments to share in softening the landing, as it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u27	Mr. President. I'm here speaking for Committee Control, my share of the Economic and Business Committee on Elements to legalize various legislations due to budget. There are some factors to consider when discussing the above - mentioned bill and the budget talk in general. Of course, it is here that the government's economic policies reveal the most clearly, i.e. in the budget and income provisions contained in these bills. The Icelandic government has long been criticized for the lack of financial resources especially in these times, during a time of high economic expansion. We do well to review that in the payment of the budget of 2005-2007, the maintenance was much more than now, much more. The remainder of the wealth was included in those years in the range of 5◯6% of GDP. Here we're talking about just over 1% leftovers next year if bodies do. Nevertheless, the government was criticized for way too much nonstop, the total lack of legislation in the state's budget under those circumstances, as it occurred during the day that there was a significant need to be cut off in the service of citizens of the country when the pressure arose. True, it was an unusually deep down in the years that followed, but it was clear that the government funds had made a promise that he could not keep without the climax of an economy. Unfortunately, it seems to be a repeated mistake in the economy right now that, despite all these warnings following the experience of 2005◯2007, despite all the reports that have been written by the World Bank of Peace, by the Secret Bank, by the agencies such as the Association of Business Life, Business Council, Industrial Association, the People's Association, so on, we are still and repeating the same mistake. It is interesting in the context of the small attention given to this irresponsibility of the government in the media, and it is helpful to recall that at that time the media severely criticized governmental authorities. Afterwards, for your inability and prove that you can. to warn the superior parties, the World Bank, OECD, and especially the Pentateuch. It was then stated that these warnings - perhaps especially the warnings of the Federal Bank, which may have been subsistence and vague, might have made it somewhat pity for governments not to respond to them. The late bank has again spoken in this context. True, it is as subtle, as it was, someone would say, but it is worth keeping in mind, and, by the permission of a president, I quote into the bank's financial affairs today in November or December that I believe: Therefore, the maintenance of these items will inevitably mean that the increase and survival of the crown will be higher. It may not be a long sentence, but this simply means that the bank announces growth increases, which means again that the gang is more likely to be undermined by the export work that we would like to build our long-term economic access, especially by technical and sceptical companies for which we would like to create a powerful and good working environment. It is good to remember that in the review of the Federal Bank on the budgetary bill of this government, it also warns that the holding level of the state's budget is greatly reduced from what the bank previously thought and expected in its forecasts that further add to this danger. It is also worth remembering that since financial programs that are still in force for us have been adopted, economic adults have but grown strong, as the budget is being set up at this point today, a considerable amount of income from what was expected. Of course, all the expenses are spent, which means that it is even more important than before to be careful in your business. So it has to be highly critical that a new government is approaching the important role of government interests in such light. Today, our view of the extent of tax recovery varies, the scope of the laws of the State. That's what politics is all about. I'm no special fan of taxes, much less taxes. It is clear that Iceland's taxes are high in international context. That would be a good reason to make room for reducing taxes here. But our situation is also difficult, for our debts are still considerably high. We owe over 900 billion bodies to the end of this year's direct debt to state funds, but in this context, we also forget to assume 600 billion GDPs that have grown very fast in recent years. Despite being paid in handsomely, such as. In the past government, we still have 600 billion commitments. It grows a year from year to year, despite all down payment. In fact, it is still a mystery to me how we will overcome 600 billion pension bonds by coughing into it each year 5 to 7 billion. In any case, it is clear that under economic conditions, there is good reason to set priorities in debt and commitment so that there is room in the financial affairs when society's basic needs are pressed back. This is extremely important. There are, of course, classes that would prefer simply higher tax rates and higher levels of the combination. It is a well-valided political bitch who, in itself, can join responsible financial administration for as long as the financial expenses are permanently financed in the long term. I don't agree with that politics, but it can totally resist the issues of a responsible government. The problem, however, is that there are members of the government that do not agree on these fundamental politics when it comes to the government's affairs. There are groups here who want much more government spending than there are today, and here are groups that would like to lower taxes. These groups are trying to unite this vastly different political vision by doing both, which is extremely dangerous. It's been tried before and didn't go well, so it's over and over again. This is a danger to the government that we simply have to take seriously. There is good reason to speed up the payment of public debt in these circumstances. We are paying the third largest growth in the OECD countries in spite of good results in subsidies and reductions in federal debt over the years. It follows that a government fund that pays more than 70 billion interest each year has less room to deal with if the economy is failing again. It is good to bear in mind in this context that the sector of industry has taken up in its discussion of the financial bill how fragile it really is. Just the fact that next year there would be no economic growth, we would be at zero, meaning that the state's budget would become unsolved at 10 billion angles. A slight recession, 1% reduction in land production, would mean 25 billion angles. You could continue to count that. There's a lot to be done so that there's no more money left to distribute. Therefore, a 4. smaller bit stresses that we take care of ourselves in these circumstances, that we continue to exercise caution in this area, that we continue to focus on reducing debt as rapidly as we can in our present circumstances. We have quite a chance to do that. Of course, this need to be kept back, now or if the government continues to increase expenses significantly from the present time, it will simply have to face the reality that then it also needs to raise the taxes and finance the long - term expenses. Otherwise, it is actually just going to walk on the financial reserve and then the next government is going to take on the budget that this government is giving. This does not have any responsibility. When it comes to the individual teams of this bill, I'd like to stop first from planning for an increase in capital income tax. It has long been the vices of the Icelandic tax system how fast and little in advance we change it. Unfortunately, tax - based political policies appear to be primarily due to the financial needs of the next year so that the European Commission settles down until the fall of budgets and think of how it should now finance what it has promised for the next year's expenses. Then, in December 1, next year, tax changes often take place on a monthly basis for those who are affected by these changes. In the large context of this, it might be said that a 2% increase in fiscal taxes may not be large, but it may also be asked, when it is accompanied by a core review of the currency capital tax subsidies, whether it would be closer to waiting on the arrangements until the currency is established. Because in this case, we may as well have a tax reduction to the future if we give, for example. sources of tax recovery or interest relief, or if plans are in the same way as a new government has shown that the tax of real growth has somehow been taxed. It's like a beard, it's in the eye. paritaprevir In his first talk, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson pointed out that it takes extremely little inflation to reduce the income of a new taxpayer's income by 22%. Two hundred and twenty - three percent of inflation, which is now relatively moderate in our context, would simply mean that the income of that tax would be reduced considerably. I think it would be far more difficult to make decisions like this in time, to make this planned increase simply to delay and finish the job, to complete a review of the currency, and how to achieve the long - term future taxation of funds. I think it's worth keeping in mind two at least ... onthatreservation. In fact, any kind of scheme to tax real-growing means that an inflation account is being reimbursed in Iceland that we left behind for two decades ago. This means that individuals and businesses need to hold on to some kind of real - life development on their property even years back in time. This will complicate the tax system. This may sound simple when it comes to taxing interest on credit. That is true, it will probably be relatively simple, but when it comes to selling debts or stocks, how to handle payment, the purchases of fixed funds, and so on, this will greatly complicate extramarital affairs. That's why I don't think it's a good idea to look at the taxation project on real-life. However, it is quite true that our real taxation on capital pay is quite high in international context, although we have relatively low tax percentages e.g. in the Norse context. This is simply because in other parts of the North countries there are sources of far more subsidies from capital gain than is customary in this country. It would be fine, especially for the homes of the country, to look to sources to reduce home interest costs, including those of the family. Because of housing debt, from capital pay, and, to protect equality, also from employment income. Our house - to - house support could include tax recovery rather than direct growth reforms at this time and, more importantly, I come to more detail later. That's what I think I need to be careful with. I think we need to keep in mind when it comes to raising a budget tax that when a capital tax was determined by 10% at its time, it was precisely the result of a historical high inflation in this country. Then it was tried to meet the view of taxation in actuality with a low tax rate. It would be worth looking to a similar arrangement, i.e. that renovating is taxed for simplicity, but rather look to the tax per cent and authority to the deduction to ensure the simplicity of the system and its fairness, especially to the homes. In view of this, a 4th-mind contributes to the simply delay and completion of this change. Setting plans for the increase of capital taxes unchanged supports the fourth lower part of the proposal to raise the stock market from 125 levels. K. of 150. K. I think it's a very important arrangement to make sure that the traditional home is not subject to significant tax increases, but it is also consistent with the promise of the left green for elections that spoke of no tax increases in the public. It is the turn of growth. The bill assumes that the temporary calculation of the rules and the reference levels of growth improvement will be extended by one year. It is good to bear in mind in this context that this expression speaks of preventing growth reform. But this provisional principle has really gone wrong since it was originally set. If you look at the reference levels, I don't think they were rewarded with the same conscientiousness that the state funds have been paid over the years. This can be seen in the simplest form, so in 2008, before the full scale of the crisis, the cost of budgeting for 2008 by the growth reform system was about 5.8 billion on the price of the year, corresponding to about one year. 9.3 billion at the price of 2017. For example, a budget bill for 2018 estimated that 4 billion will be provided for the expenses of the state's budget on interest. This is not to confuse specific growth reforms during the crisis but simply the way the system worked to support real estate buyers before the collapse. This is also well illustrated in a simple example that I gave of a couple with a share of income in a third income, equivalent to some 460 of yours. K. each month, so that their total income is doubled at that rate. They have a minimum share in a modest four - room apartment, say it is 110 square feet [110 square m]. The average price of such property is some 45 million today. This couple, according to the government taxpayer's calculator, gets 44 points. K. every year in interest, with interest costs of up to 2 million. This growth system does not even serve poor people anymore. A single parent may be able to reason on the need to live in a similar home as did a married couple, perhaps with two children, a four - room apartment, who will be able to do nothing. This system won't get a dollar out of it for interest. It is obvious that this growth reform system has been slaughtered by slowly eating from within by not moving up the thresholds. One of the things that particularly hit me in this context is that in this case this couple or a single parent is expected to have a 20% share in this apartment. It's the property end-of-the-arts that are adding up the interest. No more funding for this couple. So they have a minimal share in a moderate apartment, and it's the property of the growth reform system that extracts them. That's why I think it's becoming urgent to revise these boundaries. They are considered considerably lower than they were in 2008; yet, there is a potential value for real estate of about double at the same time. Thus, a 4th - year - old contributes to an increase in growth reform system by 5 billion. K. In either case, whether for an individual, a single parent, or a married couple, it would at least be taking the first step to rebuild this system. There may well be other support systems that can help us, such as. promoting the use of specialisations in support of early purchases, etc, but at least while working on such revisions it is very important that these support systems work for the groups for which they are to be active, which are the most efficient members of the community. They don't. Therefore, I think it is very important to take immediate action in this respect. Then, about the stress of taxing on rental cars, the extension of incarnation. I'm not gonna have a lot of words about that. I think it's a blowback, talking about the short changes in the tax system. This decision was made in 2015 to eliminate this indiscriminate manner. Therefore, there were sound reasons, i.e. that the appeal such as this helped to prevent the import of environmental vehicles, as well as to show that the growth and access of the tourism service may not be as cause as much as previously indicated by public subsidies for such a large and stopped sector. Since then, the growth of tourism has been greater than expected. We've been better than we've been afraid to hope to market Iceland as a whole place to live. So I can't see that there's no evidence to suggest that the government is subsiding the industry in this way. We have had an excellent rule to avoid subsiding our basic works. It seems to me, based on the numbers the Ministry of finance has shown on the survival of rentals that they should fully depend on this change. Thus, a fourth minor suggests that plans to extend this incarceration, which was to be canceled at the end of the year, will simply be taken back. It comes to environmental and resource taxes that have been discussed here only by good or bad motives in the tax system. The former government planned to raise the carbon price by 93% and received considerable criticism. I'd like to start by putting this into a complete context. For one thing, it is quite clear that if we don't achieve our goals in climates, we'll be waiting around the corner, after a decade or so, a pretty high bill to buy the rights we need to get if we don't get these goals. I've called for information from the Environment Ministry on how this commitment works today according to the effectiveness plans. The figures have been listed as 1,975,200 billion as a government fund may have to pungate on the basis of authority. That's why I think it's very important that we change the tax system to reduce emissions. If we look at the plans of the previous government for a 93% rise in carbon charge, which is certainly a great tax change, I can totally agree with the members of the council who have discussed this here that it is a big change, it costs to drive a car that drives 15,000 miles a year and spends about seven litres a hundred, approximately 450 bucks. per month. It's the expenses involved in these carbon costs. With President's permission, I'd like to read from the opinion of the fourth fraction which must be acknowledged to be stolen from the minority wing of the left green a year ago and I confess to this incorruption of writing here: It has been said that carbon charge is the most effective taxation to reduce the use of nonrenewable energy sources, including by the World Bank Commission, which believes that carbon costs are a far more effective method than the EU-wide emissions market. OECD has noted that the number of carbon taxes and taxes on gasoline, diesel oil, and oil for heating is generally lower in this country than in any other country in the North. OECD has further suggested that carbon dioxide emissions are about 80% too low to be used to protect the climate of the earth. Support's over, we can say here. I don't understand why the left green, which supported a significant rise in carbon costs, is now a part of the plans of the previous government, especially when the effects on typical driving are not greater than we can see. We must also recognize that these impulses have worked well. There are virtually negative incentives in this context of the European Union that have worked best with car producers to produce cars with smaller machines. Suddenly, after the regulations went into effect, car producers designed machines that had spent 50% less than we had known. Of course, we rejoice. But it is good to bear in mind when talking about negative motivations such as that are meant to destroy the currency imposed by these taxes, to encourage environmental transport, to promote energy exchange. Few societies if any have more opportunities than we have for energy exchange, to the extent possible. We know that not all of this is true, and technology has not yet arrived, e.g. for longer driving, but driving in urban areas is very realistic today. We are to take advantage of the motivation we have to support that change. Thus, a fourth minor part simply suggests that the decline in plans of the previous government and that it remains unchanged, i.e. that carbon charges will be raised by 93%. There are a number of other factors involved. As with the senior citizen's vacation target, a lot of good plans for the greater part are in place to raise the income market on 100 levels. K. is a positive step. I think the long-term policy should be that older citizens' insurance bills are not affected by employment income, that we simply allow people to benefit from what they can make, especially during the first few years of life's pay, but the fact is that they are primarily in the age range 671.775 years when people trust or choose to work. But then people are to benefit. However, there is something else that is bad in older citizens' affairs, that is, continue to reduce the considerable ability of the elderly to build up in nurses. It actually goes against this government's policy of making a big effort there. I think two-thirds of the budget that the fund has made provision each year will run into business and/or rent. It is good to bear in mind the so - called rented route taken during the crisis that it seems that the government funds have chosen to have the project fund also pay the State's contribution in the building of nursing homes. The collective contribution of construction funds and State is 85% of the construction costs, the difference paid by rural society, but it appears that the elderly's labour fund was 85%, but the state did not pay their share. That's very bad. I think it's very important to rebuild the fund so that he can perform his role as a nursing home, not a nursing home. This has been discussed with the subject of spontaneous increases in the annual budgets of state funds. I think that it would be very good if the state's fund gave up his inflation thinking, stopped taking it for granted, for credit of any kind of registration, is always worth it. This is an insensibility of a diseased thought that if we always think like that, we will never get the proper grip on the inflation. There are a very small number of companies that can allow themselves to increase their fees in a way that puts them in place at any given time. Of course, we must look forward but not again. We're inflation of the coming year with this thought, not in response to the inflation of the past year. It should be part of a Kingdom Fund requirement to consider how we can improve our business to meet these prices but, of course, reduce their scope as we can. It is also disappointing to see that there is no action now as a result of reimbursement due to research and development in technology companies. But I trust in government declarations that next year it will be replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech. One question was raised under the talk. Hv. A senator spoke of his proposal that the increase in capital income tax from 20 to 22% will be postponed because, so to speak, the point is not ready, the suggestions have not been submitted for the change of the currency strain. Now's the time. A senator on the Economic and Business Committee. This was discussed at the Committee, and what were the members of other committees receiving this approach? A senator, if he described them on the committee? I've heard what. A senator used to speak this way in this way here. I personally suggested this in a discussion of the budget. I am curious about the ways in which a discussion has dealt specifically with this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It has to be said that while running the race that the Economic and Business Committee has been taking over this case, there has not been much time to discuss the potential changes in my share. Indeed, these views have been tore. I think I now have supporters of this thought in the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, regardless of how they would vote in due time. Of course, it's a simple matter of not experimenting with the tax system in a half way but of completing the revision work before any changes are made to the council. It's just coming and saying, it sounds like the conclusion was that we have to raise some taxes against all the expenses we're offering here, we're going to give the money tax a total of 2%, then we'll just talk nice about how we're going to reevaluate it sometime. Of course, these are not practices. It is most reasonable to complete a review of the budget tax system how the currency should be, and each taxprosentan should be to return the total amount of money that most of the sector is seeking, not to be rounding the system now by some small-dose cure. We know this as well as since the history of the government of 20091⁄2013, where tax changes reached almost a number of days per year, there was no way of counting all the changes it had been in every year. I think it is much more reasonable to think that there is a problem, to complete the review, and then to decide who the taxprosentan should be on that basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is not surprising, what was said in the answer. The person standing here experiences it so that these days, in the greater part, some of it is recommended to swallow tax increases right away to appease certain groups. You could give yourself different names anyway. Congress officials who don't feel comfortable with this, but the tax approach seems to be transpiring, from the existing government contract, that the rate of tax rise should be checked at the elected time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u31	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator I think is very vague. That's not the only thing I find very vague in the government's government contract, I can't say that. But there are a lot of things that could be revised in our taxes. Although much of our tax system is blessedly quite simple in international comparison, there is also much to sharpen and to simplify significantly beyond what is present. You could take it there, for example. factors such as how we want to control the equation function of the tax system, making it a little more flexible in the equation we intend to play at a time. The current system is pretty firm in these substances. Some years have been helped to change that. It is difficult to move a person's discount because of its high cost. But I don't see that this government has any such reviews. Rather, it proclaims a relatively simple approach to only lower the percentage, which is worth a fine pay. But I think it would be possible to design such tax changes much better, e.g. to support the most commercialized groups in society by simultaneously attacking them in the simple system for the 15 billion that it costs to lower the income taxation rate by 1% and can be done to support the equational role of the tax system from what is now in particular to these very low income groups. It is not only practical for those in the workforce; it is also an enormous benefit for older citizens and disability who pay relatively high taxes on a very low income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u32	Mr. President. Work in the preparation of budgets and revenues is carried out under some special circumstances of the second year in a row. Last year, the government of the country was a government government that had failed to form a government and therefore relied on no particular part of a council. Instead, it was tried to settle matters in a tripolitic committee and to fix up on the bill. Money is now being approved in a great race, but this time the bill is out of the majority green, independent category, and forward. The government has not had much time, and it needs to be taken into account, but in the same way, the lower part's time to call for information and dive into it has also been limited. This, of course, increases the risk of making mistakes. The bill on this subject is presented concomitantly with funding, and although it is clear that the government will bring up a new financial program, it gives the Constitution, the budget, and this bill strong evidence of what to expect. According to the Community, there is a need for more investment in health and education systems, transportation and elsewhere. In fact, despite the fact that efforts are made to strengthen these things, it is enough. What the United States finds particularly serious is the total lack of effort to meet those who are in the worst terms and a complete denial of the importance of equalizing national ideals. The government pays little attention to the new and multitasked findings of the world's major institutions and experts on the most successful communities. It's the communities that live in the equation. In other words, growth is a driving force for economic growth and progress. In this country, there are too many people who suffer a severe shortage. The gap between those who have most and those who have nothing is far too much. It won't do anything unless it's increasing. It sucks, already it's such a good one. The benefits of the past few years are not balanced. Today, i.e. 5% of the population equal to the other 95%. Between 2014 and 2015, pure possessions increased the richest 5% by more than 100 billion. Meanwhile, the wealthiest 1% of the population grew by over 50 billion. The wealthiest 0.1% rose by 20 billion. This exchange of goods and the growing trend of mischanges will never be satisfied. It is therefore the most urgent task of the Icelandic government to master this trend, to ensure that the level of waste caused by harsh people and technological advances will be divided by fairness. There is no step in this direction in a new government covenant, not to mention the laws and alliances discussed here. That's why we're disappointed in the United States so much. Child damages don't raise anything from a previous budget bill. The same can be said of the birthworm. There is no increase in interest, and it actually goes down to about 2 billion years. The number of rent compensations is unchanged, but this is a sensitive group that has not enjoyed the huge increases in the modern housing market. Despite the limitations of housing costs and one of the most precise government solutions, the amount is spent on residence building. This situation holds very many people, especially young ones, in difficult circumstances. There is nothing for the elderly who cannot work, but 40% of them do not achieve forward goals. All too many in the group mentioned here are neglected in the new budget, so they live under unannounced circumstances and live on or on the edge of poverty. It would be easy to finance this urgent project by increasing the government's income during an unprecedented economic growth, as did the United States, and actually left for elections. It would be wise now to make the most of the profits if, on the other hand, all classes agree that it is needed to finance it with a collection and income gain instead of skimming the rest. What a surprise it is to see how little evidence of change or special proposals are in this situation that would be due to the well - being of a group in the government! My opinion is that the arrival of the left green in the government and their impact on the government's budgets are just too limited and up to their expectations. Mr. President. The pros and cons of independence classes and the left greens also show a similar view of the role of the tax system. The former category believes that the role of the tax system is merely to provide needed income and often talks about its simplicity while the latter has talked about the gradual tax system and wants it to be thought of as a substantial balance. But it is not enough to write a policy and make a promise for an election, to make a donation to such a bill, you see real emphasis on groups. It shows how human society trusts to build up and how they want to live as citizens, who should be divided by property, income, and the burdens laid on each individual. There is no point in forever hiding behind the needed compromises from different categories. Left green and forwarded, however available, chose to work with the Independence Party. These classes must simply be responsible. Besides, it doesn't mean that this is going to get better in a new financial programme. First, in 2018, sick groups need to dry up, as well as offer additional financial payoffs. This is shown in the government covenant. It was interesting out here before dinner when it was dark. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory rate was high on the subject of tax increases, tax increases, tax increases that appeared in budgets. I didn't quite understand what he was talking about because net pay from the Jóhannesson's budget is about 15 billion and it's to be left behind. Walking on the rest of a government fund is not trustworthy. It's been pointed out by the late bank and other members. We can't bet on eternal economic growth. It is not wise for much prosperity, as well as for experience to show that there is no basis for compromise in the Icelandic economy. The Union stresses changes in taxes and taxes so that there will be real space to restore the health system, education system, improve transport systems, and law enforcement, but especially in terms of equalizing the terms and meeting those in the most difficult terms. The union and actually the left green also talked a lot about this before election, talking about promoting social stability, maintaining economic stability, and increasing the social equation. This would be the best way to improve the standard of living in the country and contribute to the peace of work. In fact, this is not being done in these originals with a vague and priceless promise to spit in the welfare of the government covenant, and it is used as a change to ease the workforce. In this regard, it was quite interesting to listen to Sigurður Bessason, president of the Ephings, for the morning shift of Channel 2 s. Monday. He asserts that the government has no color in welfare, and he has the means to use this emphasis as a change in the coming collective agreements. He said that in the other North countries, politicians would feel responsible for the welfare of the population and would not use it as a change in collective agreements to the extent that this has actually been the case. He goes on to say that it's an old and old - fashioned practice of Katrín's government, and it's funny that the VG doesn't want to show left focus immediately on the budget but rather agree to let the labor movement and professional drivers pull out their well - being. The left green gave in welfare matters. Instead, they have weighed considerable environmental emphasis on the government covenant. They're a lot of good ones, but they tend to leak mostly when surveyed by the bills. The last government actually stressed green taxes, although its emphasis on balance and well - being was missing, now is the case. Dropped out of plans for a double carbon account. It is now scheduled to go twice as far as the last government is going to plan, and this will cost up to two to three billion. Instead, 20 million are put in total employment for climate. It just doesn't make sense to me. The incentive to switch to eco-friendly transport reduces at this time and the amount of money taken together also reduces, of course, money that could be used in an environment, but if it doesn't need at least one. in cases related to the poorest people. We know that if the fight against global warming is successful, we must reduce emissions and we must simply add green taxes. Under these circumstances, most of us must be able to do so. In order for a relationship to reach green taxes, they need to be considered in the context of other tax changes. It has to be settled in such a way that they do not burden sensitive groups and may undo the compensations of the group in another way, e.g. in the form of child support or child support. The last government's missing. The inability of this government to earn money, therefore, threatens not only social stability but also economic stability. Today, the Governing Body is on the move, and this is the case with the result in his work, money matters. It says, by permission of the president: Surely, then, the growth and survival of the crown would have been higher. The message will probably not be clearer. It continues to fuel unwanted fluctuations that will once harden the public and even the knowledge companies that work on a global market. I can't discuss this bill without just explaining, Mr President, how shameful child reforms are today. A couple who work both for a living and earn their income at the lower quarter limit receive a total of 3,000 dollars. during a month of child reforms to be supportive of family members in times of high economic pressure. I find this to be a disgrace to the council. Children's impairment limits, which have only moved slightly since 2013, have increased by 40%, but I think it's about 20,000 bucks. It's just not enough. Remember, in Iceland, there are now more than 6,000 children exposed to poverty. We have to do something for this group. Then I think the government's ambitiousness in housing is also pathetic. The first issue of the Conspiracy turns to the construction of 5,000 public renters based on a law in which a solidarity was held about 2016. That's just one of the things to do, it's going to have to be done much more than that, but it's a good first step. This building should be financed by legal payment, but before elections, there was much discussion about all the money available in the banking system, a great deal of capital that would be necessary for the government to use with zeal. This money could be used in monotonous measures. This is probably a reasonable provision for the development of rent companies without a profit requirement. Successful development will be useful in combating poverty for years to come as well as in equal fluctuations in a non-needed Icelandic housing market. Then it would likely be possible to use other single - change operations to finance transport programs, projects in the country, and even a city line here. Some government leaders may even have been assigned to the U.S. calls it a monotonous, indiscriminate, disintegrating, bitter senator who was disappointed that he was not in a government from the center to the left, a government that actually took on the growing indiscriminate and poverty, but also corruption, secrecy, and patriotism, as many of the classes talked about. And that certainly is disappointing. As I said before, left green and advance chose to operate on the right and lay down the ideologies of the Independence Party. But this is hardly an inconsistencies, for the majority of interest stakeholders that have planted a financial committee have been rather negative or very negative to the bill. ASI central management sent an conclusions on the budget bill yesterday and I'm going to allow myself to finish the speech by reading a brief section of it, with permission of a president: ▪ The population between the rich and the poor is increasing In an ASI economic study of the development of the tax burden on remuneration in the past 20 years, it is clear that there has been an increase in the tax burden of remuneration and the greater increase with less income. How disappointing it is, then, that these trends are not addressed in the budget but, on the contrary, continued on the same path by reducing expenses for child development, growth reform, and housing! The level of taxes will continue to increase, as the equality of the tax system is further reduced. Only now does it say that the budget is not enough to lay the basis for this agreement and cooperation with the labour market partners on economic and social stability announced through the presentation of the Treaty. Mr. President. It is safe to say, then, that this government just doesn't start out so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u33	Mr. President. I'm going to say a few words about the opinion of the committee of the greater part and a few things that turn it around. While it is important to note in this bill and in the opinion of the committee that we are raising the capital tax to 22%, the same way is to raise the budget because of money gains only one thing that is more useful to those who have less living than those who earn most of the money. This is important. I also agree with what was said at the moment. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son has come before because of the discussion people have wondered about changing the terms of some capital tax. I think it may be extremely complex and difficult to plan to change, e.g. going out in the real world or what people would like to call it, because it's not the arrangement we're on. I think the best thing to do is to keep the percentage where it is, at least. Just for now. Later, step distinctions may be considered, as noted earlier or as further adjustments in the procedure. Also important is the bill and the points presented in a committee program. As noted by other speakers here this evening and also by sources, it would be useful to see that the next step in changing the income limits of the income of the nursing staff and the disability donor in some way balances the difference between pension income and employment income. The job income is primarily the nature of the situation, with the potential for those who are in good health and relatively young in the older age age group, and therefore it is only natural to look forward to the possibility that those who are no longer on the move to make extra money also have a chance for some sort of vacation market, to form in pension income. The majority of the committees are involved only in committee activities, including in directing to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to see how this will be handled, then likely in connection with a financial programme and the upcoming budgets. There's one more issue in the committee, Mr. President, which I'd like to explain. It's about 38th. the bill that discusses the increase in expenses due to a number of cases in the Foreign Institute. At first glance, it could seem that the increase was considerably higher than the price. The committee received a memo from the Ministry of Justice and calculates these charges to confirm that three of these are due in some way to a higher price, than according to the Ministry of Justice that the changes they will not have had a proper explanation, including the changes in their explanation. this is due to prompt treatment. The rule of work has been said to be more charged for it than the standard of care. I'm not going to have any more of those words, but I'd like to say, finally, that it's been very interesting to work on this tape in the record speed of a short term as a new economic and commercial committee. In effect, I'm starting to look forward to my work next year, which I hope will be at a reasonable time and under difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u34	A respectable president. In part 3, I took note of the fact that the insurance fee was not reduced in these proposals. I couldn't believe it so that I looked a bit, and it seems to be right, that it's not down. I thought, then, that during the campaign, there was so much talk about lowering the insurance money, and I just want to talk about it, especially in connection with the so-called election code. However, I don't necessarily want to criticize other classes for not keeping up with their campaign code, as it is sometimes called, but I would rather criticize the phenomenon itself. In our last campaign, Pirantar and I made a special experiment. We took the budget, as it was in October, put it in a table design, looked at it, and changed our numbers, as we would like to contribute. The purpose of this was first to show what our suggestions would cost and how we would finance them but also to offer conversations with other groups, with the public and anyone else, because we were relatively clear or I hope that we have been as clear as possible. However, these were not election plans; these were suggestions for discussion depending on the circumstances, etc. We gave ourselves specific reasons. We gave ourselves, for example. the premise that the economy will be relaxed in the near future. It seems to be coming true, but it could have changed, and I hope we've been completely clear about this. One of the things I remember discussing at a large meeting where we passed several martyrs from the various categories in front of a group of people was a reduction in insurance fees. Naturally, we were all asked. All other categories at this time were asked: Do you want to lower the insurance? The person always said, "Yes, I want to cut down the insurance fees, including the classes that were then part of the government. " Everyone was willing to do this, except for a bright future, answered something inexplicably as if I had experienced it during this meeting, and I also had assumed that, in my simple mind, the reduction in insurance bills was in the bill we were talking about. We had made some adjustments to that bill, so I assumed that included our change would be a reduction in insurance bills. Then came a report in the business magazine and elsewhere that everybody else wanted to lower their insurance fees except Piratar. I'll start trying to correct this and find out in a conversation with a journalist - a bit silly, but that's the way it is sometimes - that there was no reduction in the insurance bill offered in the bill, despite all politicians wanting it. I didn't know what to tell this fine journalist. All right, then, I guess the story's true after all, but then I'm curious not to see now on this bill of insurance cuts. I thought to myself, " Listen, I'm just offering this myself, and I started to do a little bit of math, and I found that it's inaccessiblely expensive to cut the insurance bill, whether it's the public or the unemployment insurance team, according to my very basic calculations of 7.4 billion for 0.5%. That's a huge amount. I began to wonder if I might suggest 0.1%. Then I wondered: No, wait, we didn't promise, we said we weren't going to do this. All the others said they were going to do it, not us. Then I had a conversation with some of the local council members, and they rightly pointed out that perhaps we should rather focus on trying to get more money from the health system and something like that. Of course you're right. This reminded me of the fact that I was standing in front of a pack of people demanding the reduction of insurance money, it's so easy to say, "Yes. It's so easy for the politician to say, "Yes, of course I want to turn down the insurance. But that's not in these suggestions. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, rightly criticized this in his minority mind. I don't quite know if I'm criticizing or not, but I think it's worth talking about this because when we're in a campaign and we're asking questions like that, we'll have to, in my opinion, be able to say maybe not, maybe I'm not gonna turn down the insurance. It's more creative than criticism. We're close to the end of 2nd. and this case will likely continue in the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I suppose, at least, a change in plans, that's not seen by it. I found it worthwhile to mention that when it comes to these matters, we are not in a campaign to be tempted to say things that we do not know how to deal with. That's the whole point behind what we did in our campaign. We took the evidence that already existed and changed it according to our will and offered it as suggestions, not promises, but suggestions, from something that other people could then review and criticize or make adjustments in or whatever. It was a first down. The voter was like the beginning of this terms, all in a million. It occurred with a brief action and was all made in fear of panic, I think, among all categories. It explains things that went wrong there, but it's an experiment that I'm proud we've done. I know that revere went on a similar mission. I never saw a chart from them, but I hope one day it came out. It's the kind of work I think we're supposed to adopt in the future when we're talking to a group of people about things that are easy to say yes to us, a group that requires something, that we have the numbers in front of us, the facts, and can show what we're talking about so that the question is no longer: Do you want to cancel the insurance? Rather, what is the insurance fee in the suggestions? Well, the insurance bill is right here on the motion. Okay. What about having it like that or gay? And then you can say, "Yes, we have to do this or this. " Then some wise conversation about the changes we want to make can be continued. That would be a much more responsible campaign in my opinion. In this respect, I am proud of this experiment despite, as I say, confusion and various misunderstandings that took place on my part in the campaign funding. I feel that we should do more in this direction and less talking about the government's financial affairs as if they were merely dependent on each member's will. Happily, it is not so that each member of the body or one head or person at a certain level determines the cost of the State. Of course, that is never the way it should be. But if we are to show responsibility in the so - called promises to voters, we must also show how we are going to shoulder it. It may be the responsibility to say, " No,'or, " I don't know,'or, " Here I am, give me suggestions, or something like that, rather than just nod and always say, " Yeah. '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u35	Mr. President. I recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Committee members on deck. 74 on bill to legalize financial law, No. 161/2002. The Economic and Business Committee agrees with that. The objective of the bill is to extend the financial rights of the UN to take special measures under certain circumstances to limit damage or damage to financial markets. A similar source was originally granted to the Commission by the Police Department to use the terms of emergency laws called since 2008, but the history of this provision is further discussed in the bill's report. Marketing Authorisation of temporary VI on financial enterprise law, No. 161/2002, remains unaltered for the coming year. The decision was made on the basis of the implementation of Directive 2014/59, called the BRRD Directive - that we may be slow and biting in the Economic and Business Committee to learn all these shortcuts that come from the European Union and belong to the financial and regular activities thereof - would be implemented in Icelandic just before the end of the Directive and that would have entered Icelandic legislation similar to this provisional principle. However, the implementation of this directive has proved to be more important for the European Union and its members in the European Economic Areas and therefore it is clear that the provision of the provisional principle needs to be extended. Now aims to complete the induction by means of two primes to be submitted to the current council and the next one, according to the report. Therefore, it is suggested that the length of the approximately three years of this law be extended to December 31, 2020. Otherwise, I'm not going to quote the committee's opinion, but it's written by Óli Björn Kárason, president of the story, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Braunzur Níelsson's son, Oddný G., Odður Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and Silja Helgi, Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u36	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program on billing the adjustment of foreigners'law, No. 80/2016, with subsequent changes. It's about reimbursement for industrial education and it's from what it's about. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I'd like to say in the beginning that the committee's all behind the committee's opinion. The committee discussed the matter and attended the meeting of the Berglind of Justice and the Ministry of Education, the Tanja Jóhannsdóttir of the Foreign Institute and Elísabet St. PétursdóttirBára Helgadóttir, and Ólafur Grétar Kristjánsson, by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The bill includes changes in the laws of foreigners, No. 80/2016, on the other hand, the definition of education in the terms of the terms "explanatory" in a description of the terms "explanatory" in the Article 3 paragraph 3 (i.e. The law, but instead, a definition of study will be limited to an explanation as stated in 1 mg. 65. g. The law. The report on the bill shows that it is the purpose of implementing a living permit as a result of a previous education, or what was in force in the older law on foreigners, No. 96/2002, allowing entitlement to unless you intend to engage in a formal or accepted high school profession. In that bill that became a law of foreigners, No. 80/2016, there is no clear indication of decommissioning industrial studies specifically from the definition of the law of study. It may be, then, that this is a specific correction, for it was not a conscious wish to eliminate this authority from the law. In the management of the case, it was considered whether the definition of study in the bill included in the Committee would be sufficient, especially in industrial studies and accepted secondary education. It was noted that such a study needs to be defined in a syllabus and minister to agree. The committee emphasizes the need for conformity between laws on foreigners, No. 80/2016, as well as the rules and regulations that apply otherwise to study. The committee also reviewed the provision for the provision of the children of students and their right to stay on the land on the basis of their parents'deposit. The current law states that only spouses, roommates, and children of students who are pursuing advanced university studies, doctors, and studies here on the basis of 65rd. a law on foreigners, can be granted entitlement, as per 1 mg. Sixty-niner. The law. The committee believes that this arrangement includes discrimination according to the type of study. It cannot be seen what the need is to separate students from their children or mates in a second study as 65 C.E. judicial procedures involving foreigners, i.e. Except for a university education and basics. The committee considers it important to consider that in this respect high school and basic education are measured to the same degree as higher education as doctors. The committee believes that the current arrangement can promote sexual discrimination for study. Thus, women with children might be less likely to attend this school if their children's rights or children here may not be guaranteed properly. The committee discussed this and examined the details, but it turned out to be a little tricky, and here we don't have an unlimited period of time. As a result, the Committee directed to the Ministry to submit improvements to the next legal revision announced at the beginning or early in 2018. The Commission considers it important to consult the legislation on the basis of national legislation, Norway, and Sweden in the matter as well as on the general rules for children's rights. It seems that there is no academic leave to be limited to a certain type of study, as has been the case in Denmark and here. The Commission points to the Ministry that this arrangement will be considered in the light of these countries and that it requires the importance of ensuring the equality and right of children to socialize with their parents. It is then true that international agreements on child rights are in harmony with them. For the treatment of the situation. A global and educational committee was also discussed an unacquainted university education. Four. 65. g. the terms of foreigners are required to allow the foreigner to be authorised under this directive to meet the criteria of the 2nd mg. for the study conducted at work areas in this country, as temporary employment permits have been granted on the basis of the laws on the employment rights of foreigners. A paper with a bill that turned into a law on foreigners says 4 mg. 65. g. is a new reference where there is a warrant that can be given to a foreigner to study at a university level at work. The Commission, therefore, points to the Ministry to see if there is any basis for this change and whether an unoriginated university education can also provide the right to live in this country with certain conditions fulfilled. The committee points out that following the implementation of the law on foreigners, No. 80/2016, several changes in the law have been made. The committee emphasizes the importance of legal negotiations when it comes to personal rights. Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir was absent from the case, but she signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. As I said at the outset, this is a consistent conclusion. The General and Education Committee suggesting that the bill be agreed as unchanged. Under the committee, write along with the one listed here by Dr. Páll Magnússon, chairman of Guðmundur Andri Valdimarsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Birggis Steindór of Avjörður, Liingika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótir, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir. As mentioned in my case, the committee discussed and discussed matters in connection with the transformation that a bill to correct a change in the law of foreigners assumes, but it concluded that it is quite reversed to find the accurate language that is needed to cover exactly what we want to achieve, not to open or move something else or to move to something else. Therefore, the Commission agreed that there would be no further adjustments to the bill, but it directed it to the Ministry to examine a number of things. There's a possibility there's going to have to be more changes in the law on foreigners, and I think it's fine that we've gone through the discussion that follows this particular bill. When it's a big matter, like legislation that concerns foreigners, I think it's totally natural that we always have to look into the law, with the principles of experience and, of course, just how we as a community are developing. So we suggest that the bill be agreed as it is, and I'm optimistic that it will be what happens here on this matter. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss this matter. First of all, as the bill lies before and before. A pan-European and educational committee supports, this is to correct the course of mistakes or misunderstandings in which industrial studies somehow fell between ships and docks at the last revision. I'm not going to do anything about it, but it's a reminder that there's more to study than college, and it's important that we take care of it. We're quite proud of our industrial education, at least we often talk about the quality and skill of Icelandic traders, and we have spoken of their being the best traders. It's a good trade here. I think we should be proud of it. It's very good if people want to come and learn here. I would like to agree with what the Commission prominently said on the topic discussion, which was excellent. The person here seized the opportunity to treat this matter and urged the committee to consider the circumstances of a child's right to follow his parents. This brought attention to the discussion. Signed had hoped to put this through. It did not, but the discussion of the Committee became very good and perfunctory. I want to thank the members of the board for taking this discussion. I think it was very helpful, too, in that I think members of the committee, without my wanting to make men too much up, have generally felt that there had to be braking in line with the text of the Committee opinion. At the same time, I think we've made quite a point of presenting these messages with this opinion and, like, conversation with guests before the committee. I am convinced that the matter will be successful. I believe that, and I trust the committee will follow up on the case if there's a delay. At least the person standing here will. I'd also like to take advantage of this, because it generally enters the right of children to conform to their parents and international commitments, and reminds them that we Parliamentaries and they have proposed a bill of change in alien law on the right of children to accompany their parents here to a land that has a permit. When you read this book of law, it's a bit fragile how it's done and you have to do something about it. The other is quite true, however, that these issues are complex and must be done carefully. I'm sure we can do that. I have full faith in that. A global and educational committee will work hard on these issues and be intervening in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u38	Mr. President. I'm written on the General and Education Committee's opinions in this case, thus supporting its deliberation in this way, but chose to step up here to make perhaps some points in the discussion before it ends with these blessed alien laws that we are always taking in here and how it would be best to do so. Now it is time to appoint a transverse committee to see if the law might need to be revised. I think these endless butts will show us beyond any doubt that they need to be revised. It is not a question of whether it may be necessary. It's just that way. One thing that we can't look at, and that's what I'd like to come to because, at least, I have the opportunity to say, one thing we can't revise, unless we start looking at a minister's role in foreign law, which I think is exactly reason for this committee to look at, i.e. the authority of the minister of this suit. Maybe we'd have to start crowding them, at least when we're looking at a minister who's willing to set up a regulations that will impair the implementation of the trustees, and we'll consider robbing them of their Christmas dues, but we're not. In that case, I would think that perhaps the current minister could not be trusted with the authority that she has to set up rules for the survival and survival of the trustees in this country. When this transverse work is started and this butt-hole is going to be fixed just by us, I suggest that we do. Councilmen also consider how far we want the power of a minister to take over the lives and health of refugees and whether we might not accept a little more power than to allow a minister to use a single pen dash to remove the refugees'livelihood while they wait to be sent abroad. A question to leave here on the Adventist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u39	A respectable president. As we have seen, we are here to correct a mistake that took place on the overall thought of foreigners, a large and complex task. Although the law is new and the overall review has been completed recently, the new law is closer to being like an old tweet attached to a new frame. There are laws that have evolved over the years and have been added to them. The views presented here for the children and partners of foreigners given here are a fine example of harmony that has never occurred since there is one section of ablation license on the basis of expertise, i.e. People who get to take their children and spouses, and another part where sports companies are allowed to call out to them foreign players, and they are given permanent leave that covers spouses and children. But there are other groups in which the specific legal code comes for some other reason possible into the Law Museum, otherwise not the same permanage package is included. There's a lot of work here. So in the opinion of the committee, we direct the Ministry to gather and see how the best way to get to the earth can be considered. I trust, as we noted in the Committee's opinion, that this will be the first after the New Year's Eve. I'm glad we speak. Jón Valdimarsson will put hands in his hands next year and handle this task and sew these pieces that are only trampled on the new line of blind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u40	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program with a change to bill to legalize courts and other laws, sentences and licenses of the judge, appeal to private matters, legal rights, etc. It's on the roof. 82. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bryndís Helgadóttir and the People of the Þorsteinsson Court of Justice, Benedikt Bogart Bogason of the Court, Sigurður Tómas Magnússon of the Court of Þorvaldur, Áslaug Björgvindótir, Kolbrún of Women in Legality, Stefán Andrewur Svensson of the National Law Association of Iceland, and the Þorsteinsdóttir from Iceland's Justice Association. The bill suggests changes in courts, No. 50/2016. First, there is temporary authority to put judges and defence judges on the Supreme Court, secondly temporary authorization by the minister to grant the Court's appointed judges a permit in case of specific reasons; third, there are proposed changes to the arrangement of listed court order for the Supreme Court, and fourth, of course, are included in the bill that sharpens the charges and appeals of private matters to the Supreme Court and regulations that contribute to the increased efficiency of the work. The bill presents changes that are needed because of the changes made to a new court order that is now taking effect at the beginning of 2018. The meetings discussed the rules of the judicial court and of the judicial committee. For the committee, it came to the view that transparency must be made to a judge's sentence as well as to observe equal and objective views. It was also noted that governments have been directed by international institutions, such as the United Nations, to take specific measures to increase the number of women in the Supreme Court. A report by the United Nations Human Rights Council of the United Nations of June 30, 2015, UN Resortation on Ingeniality of juges and Lawyers, gives high emphasis on the importance of gender balance as a ground for independent and neutral jurist. Then it came to the conclusion that the temporary permission of the sentence of the judge suggested in the bill should be made according to the court law, No. 50/2016, who are now taking effect for the year, and it says that there is a need for objective viewpoints, transparency and equations to a judge's sentence, but it showed that the regulations of the bill are partly based on earlier rules due to the practical requirements. The committee agrees with the importance of the view that transparency and conflict with the sentence of the judge should outweigh the practical requirements. The Commission therefore suggests adjustments in ensuring this transparency and effectiveness in the judicial sentence of judges in accordance with the arrangement set out in new courts, No. 50/2016. The Commission stated that the terms of the bill involved in the sentence of a replacement judge are in accordance with the arrangement laid down in the new law. The bill presents a special temporary warrant for the Minister to grant leave to the National Rights judge if there are special reasons for this, up to three months, the judge would request such permission for January 1, 2018. It was noted in the panel that since the cross-cutting legislation is not valid until January 2018, nobody, unchanged, has the authority to give this license to judges at the National Court until that time, and the Committee accepts the need for such a warrant to deal with that situation. In handling the case of the committee, it was necessary to withdraw from reference to 2 mgr. 198. has been treated for 6 mg. g-joints 68. g. par. Law on Change of Personal Opinion and Legal Opinion, No. 49/2016 i.e. on the intermediate level, on the authority to appeal the Court's decision to the Supreme Court after an appeal period is completed at 2 mg. 198. there is a requirement for an appeal to the National Court. So the committee suggests the removal of the reference, including, to be consistent with the handling of private matters. In addition to the above changes, the Commission suggests a change that makes it clear that the earlier rules of appeal-free values have an appeal to the highest court before January 1, 2018, and will then only be appealed to, or after, revereed, by other causes to the Supreme Court. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The whole committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st At Section 4. a. Instead of the words of the ◯ motion of the court in 1st verse, there is a motion made by a committee called III. section. b. After the first verse, a new sentence will follow, as follows: A judge shall come from the ranks of former judges, but if this is not possible from the ranks of others who meet conditions for receiving an order in the office of the Supreme Court judge, cr. 2nd and 3rd mg. 13th par. 2. After Section 6. A new article, as follows: ▪ The perfect conditions of 2 mg. 198. and in 6 mg. g-joints 68. g. par. The law goes away. 3. At 7th. Add a new paragraph, as follows: Now, one person appeals to the highest court before January 1, 2018, which will only be appealed, or after counter-adversion, by other causes to the Supreme Court. That's an appeal deadline under older law. Under this, all the members of the General and Education Committee, i.e. He who stands here, Ingi Steindór Valdimarsson, Sundrímursson, Sundímsson, Andrés Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Thordjöldur Ævarsdóttir Avónardótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u41	Madam President. Again I come up here to open up a few words about the opinion of the committee that I truly agree with, for all my comments were met in terms of this transformation. This is also another example of the penalties that we've been working on at the council. But in contrast with the penal code that I referred to in my first talk on non - Israelite affairs, there is no way of forming any parapolitic committee on the judicial law. Yet, I consider it a very good reason to consider the laws and general penalties and the general line of punishment that we have with us and the rules all together. I believe there is good reason to consider more carefully the laws involved in national rights. Now, we are again on our way to fix laws and repair things around the Land's rights and set rules around orders to the National Court. And once again, I begin to wonder if the Minister's authority is necessarily desirable in that case, i.e. Although there is no transpirian law against courts, I would like to have it. I'd like to review whether or not we should give the Minister of Justice permission to order a judge at the National Court, this has not given us much opportunity so far. But maybe it's simply because I don't trust my current highest trust. Minister of Justice for appointing judges in the National Court, just as I did not trust the current Supreme Court. Minister of Justice to take good care of the life and health of the inmates. It may not be necessary to change the laws about the foreigners and the legal rights of the minister in order to order to give the life of refugees, or to change the laws of the courts and the legal rights of a court of justice to appoint judges of the land's rights. It may just have to be a matter of changing the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u42	A respectable president. The bill on this subject addresses a very limited part of the judicial legislation, in fact, only technical solutions, in the setting of the National Court. The changes made by the General and Education Committee further indicate how to arrange for the administration of the highest level of activities that are seen while working on a project level, which will result in a decision to transfer to national rights. That tail will be taken down in a year and a half. During this period one judge will have to guess an additional judge working for the Supreme Court, so it is of great importance that in selecting the judges, who thereby receive a very valuable experience in the CV, they follow the same professional procedures as those of the judges in general, i.e. to pass through a judicial hearing of a suitable judge. What I would like to mention, however, is a point that we came to see in the committee opinion that this matter is not really involved, there is no law on that, i.e. The sex ratio in the Supreme Court. In the event that these replacements, reserves, will not be chosen from the former Supreme Court, this is to appoint temporary judges to the Supreme Court, which in the future will have the advantage of applications for the Supreme Court's positions. So I'm hoping that the people, the non-employee member of the former judge, will become both male and female, so that the next time a permanent position is opened at the Supreme Court, the female candidates are equally male when it comes to evaluating qualifications, when experience in judicial matters at the Supreme Court is reviewed. In this way we might even look forward to a better time, since people do not have to wait for two decades between the appointment of a woman as a high court judge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u43	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on Environment and Transport. 52 on bill to legalize the creation law, No. 160/2010, with subsequent changes. You should mention at first that this is a date issue, as they are often called and that all members of the committee share the opinion. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted the representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry, as well as the comments received by the Committee. The bill suggests that the change of the 2nd law code for temporary construction laws, No. 169/2010, to postpone the Agency and the construction agent to obtain professional values in accordance with the regulations of Article 19. The law will be extended. This is how the Union's member countries and member society of construction agents respond to the need for extensions in view of the fact that the preparation of an appointed construction agent to obtain professional values is short of time and that a serious situation would arise for construction industry and construction management because of the lack of legal resources to care for tasks requiring professional prowess would not be extended. The committee stresses the fact that a temporary solution is involved and assumes that no further extension will occur than those proposed in the bill. Rather, it will be endeavoring to ensure the basis for the changes made in the prognostic requirements, as shown in 19,◯20. par. The law, and the preparation for the changed arrangements will be completed before the extended deadlines expire. According to the above, the committee suggests that the matter will be agreed as it should. Under these writings, he says, Bergþór Ólason, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Lineika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjoffótsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u44	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees to correct a change in the law on the defense of avalanches and landslides, No. 49/1997, with subsequent changes. It's a Senate document. 53. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Lauf Laufey Helga Guðmundsdóttir and Pálsson from the Department of Environment and Resources and Sigrún Karlsdóttir from Iceland's Western Weather Office. The committee also received a review of the situation from the European Union. The objective of the bill is to extend the time of temporary law II in the act of defense against avalanches and landslides, No. 49/1997, allowing the use of funds from an overflow to contribute to the payment of danger estimates caused by volcanic eruptions, floods, and floods. The current source expires on December 31, 2017, but the bill suggests that it will be extended until December 31, 2022. The Committee supports and shows the importance of the projects that have been supported by the source listed here to extend. However, the Commission also wants to highlight the importance of projects that are designed to be handled according to law, stressing that these projects do not ignore this authority but, rather, will be arranged to ensure that their progress is guaranteed. It should be noted that this is a date case, so it is in place. According to the above, the committee suggests that the matter will be agreed as it should. Under this publication, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Línika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u45	Madam President. I recommend the members of the Department of Health Committee on a bill to legalize the laws on disabled people's affairs and the laws on equipment, method of loyalty, and safety at work. This case, as I suppose it would be. Congress members are aware of the extension of temporary regulations due to NAPA services, the user - controlled personal assistance. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors, including From the Ministry of Health, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the welfare field of Reykjavíkurburg, the National Institutes of Development, the NPA Center and the Micro-Communications Association. The bill provides the next step in the legal fixation of the user - controlled personal assistance that has been fired as an experimental project since 2012 on the basis of a law for temporary IV in the case of disabled persons, No. 59/1992. I'm not going to read the committee's opinion from word to word, but the committee has discussed the matter in detail, including this: ... becauseof those who have made the mistake of finishing the legal process here at the council. In the process we are now developing, there is a considerable cumulative need for funding for new contracts. That is why it is well expected that in the already established budget, we will be expected to contribute to more contracts, but the committee will emphasize the importance, as stated in the Commission opinion, that we will be better done there, that we will address to the budgetary and the Senate at all, with the opportunity for financing in the next year to do better than this and to increase the contracts to up to 100, but not just 80, as previously assumed. The committee also feels very important that special funding is thought to be involved in the role of user - controlled personal assistance involving artificial ventilation and home ventilation services. Happily, that is not a large group of individuals but a very sensitive group. Clearly, the service and the service load resulting from the care surrounding a respirator is far more extensive and costly in nature. Therefore, it is only reasonable to assume that these actions are designed to make a higher budget than would normally be called the MPA agreements. The committee therefore makes this a special statement in view of the importance of special consideration. We're gonna go for a second. The commissioners want the group to be given a special gate when it comes to funding these contracts and to think, in effect, that the funds are essentially earmarked to these actions. It is important that we show up at the Senate Hall at the moment. The welfare committee is united in this matter. There is a complete agreement on the importance of the issues discussed here. The committee together spoke down on a solution, and therefore all members of the committee rely on him. to sign the opinion of the committee and send it out as a group. So the committee suggests that the bill will be passed on as it happens, i.e. the bill on prolongation of the NPA protocol. And no more about it than read the names of members of the committee: Halldóra Mogensen, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Jónsson Inónsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Brjánsson, Guðvensson, Kristinsson Ignsson, Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u46	President. Now we're back to accepting preliminary MPA service regulations. Unfortunately, this bill does not have a permanent PPA in law, but by review of laws on disabled people's affairs and social services it will be done. It is the common understanding that this work will be put first. As indicated by the welfare committee, these laws are intended to take effect on June 1, 2018, and they will allow the user - controlled personal assistance to be permanently validated. As indicated by the provisional plan, 286 billion are expected. K. Documents for negotiations of user-controlled personal assistance in bill making budgets for 2018 The budget is up by 70 million. K. from 2017 to allow for the increase of contracts by 25, or from 55 contracts to 80 contracts. As noted in a committee study, the Commission concluded that this increase was not sufficient to respond to demand. This has been reported on the terms of the disabled, as well as in the diagnostic work that has been required for more than 80 contracts. A review of this increase in agreements from 55 to 80 is made by permission of the President in the National Institute of the Development Fund of 2018: ▪ Users - controlled personal assistance is a form of service that is very successful in meeting the commitments of the state under the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people to adapt their service to the needs of those involved and to ensure that disabled persons have opportunities for independence and normal life and are actively involved in the community. This small-growing agreement is a small ambition in this area in general, and particularly in view of the fact that large rural areas are ready to cooperate on a much greater increase in MPA contracts. Based on the conversations I've had, it's true that large rural areas are ready to cooperate on a much greater increase in MPA contracts. That's why I don't have to wait. I've said it before and will say again that budgets should not be used to limit people's rights. This is stated in the general text of the UN Committee on the rights of disabled people and should be obvious to all. That a person does not have access to the necessary service that guarantees him or her life because there is no room in the budget is disturbing. Changes have now been made to the budget board that there will be an increase of 70 million more government contracts for the user - controlled agreements. So it is up to the council to accept increased legal authority for this sect. This is not a large amount that is needed, and I hope that the senators will see their own worth in accepting this increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-21-7.u47	Madam President. We now have a second round. Although we are dealing primarily with preliminary regulations for a period of time, a critical and long - awaited bill remains to be considered. These are human rights matters that will contribute to great changes in the everyday lives of service recipients and will enable many to begin a new life, gain freedom, and independence. True, this is true of those who become so fortunate to get a deal called MPA. It will not all be the first event, unfortunately, but the welfare board adds to a budget, social security minister and government that treaties will grow very rapidly and that they will be no less than 100 in 2018, but we have the expectation that the new law will soon be realized. In order for that to happen, we need to add a minimum of 70 billion. K. On the project in 2018, as noted by the head of the welfare committee just moments ago. It is a great deal of agreement that services are limited to people who need daily mechanical treatment and that the earmark is especially money to this factor. This is primarily a matter of specialized care and care and care for the nursing staff that now share a financial burden on the shoulders of rural society, as it was observed. A pilot. I urge the government to accept the emphasis presented in the Committee on the Health Committee's Department for the next year's budget. Then we look to the future with the view that using personal help will become the principal form of service to disabled people. Of course, the plans are that as soon as possible, and still necessary for the formation of NAPA to be accelerated and faster than the provisional principle, so that a professional assessment made at the beginning of 2017 on the need for negotiations in 2018 would be 136, it would get better or may not be delayed for a short period of time.
