ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u1	A respectable president. We had quite a few senators talking at the highest level. A president last night for the words of the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers are being asked to agree to a transport programme and then to a financial bill. In his words, he found that in a sense, he felt that it was immoral to have agreed here with a transport plan at the end of his last assembly in the end of an election. In view of the severity of the word. Ministers are, and more, when he spoke of the council making a mistake on the agreed budget and if it had been out of control, I'd like to ask the highest degree. A president of the United States, whether or not he had a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on these matters. I think it's a serious matter when dealing with the council with the Minister that I think it's important that the Speaker take over the council in this relationship and therefore ask the president if such a conversation has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u2	Madam President. I come up here like yesterday, and I'm thinking about just coming up every day and talking about how important it is for us to get a program of the council, to know what the program of the council is all next week, in advance. This is not only necessary, so we senators can do our job well, organize, and prepare us for the common people, so that the public can observe and make comments to us members of the council that we can apply in our discussion. We need to let the public know more about the discussion, and we do so by giving them a warning program and giving them the opportunity to prepare properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a respectable president about the Code of Morality for all of us. Allied members signed. It even says so. of the C- team 5. the principles of conduct: As members of the council, the members of the council must not bring reproach on the Council or damage its image by their conduct. Likewise, at 7 C.E. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending ▪ The Senators shall show respect, respect, and work in all their ways. I'd like to ask a respected president how this harmony with words is the highest. Secretary of finance during the days when he called the Council immoral. I'm just asking, is this appropriate? Isn't it time we handled this properly? Here's a code of ethics. At least I count the highest. Financial ministers have shown their behavior to the General by their conduct in this media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u4	Madam President. I was going to say something. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen another day. I really hope that the President is getting tired of me coming here over and over and asking that the council program be put on more notice because I'm a little tired of having to come up and remind myself of this day after day. This is how we need to be able to prepare for our activities, and it is vital that both we and those in the community be able to do so. Today, regular committees are usually set aside for good advance. It is not necessarily known how long it will take to discuss a particular matter, but it is scheduled, and it will be fine. I don't understand why we can't follow the same recipe here, certainly it's always a bit complicated, but it's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u5	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís's daughter, Strategie Svavarsdóttir's Chief of Staff, Left Green President, and others who have spoken here about the above words. Budget and economic ministers coming up for the council. Many people have the feeling that things are changing to worse ways in Icelandic society and that they are more inclined to the same extent they were here before a collapse. One of the things that was criticized in the report of the Generalist Committee and the Senate report also based on a report by the NTSB was Ministership, had to be promoted by the Council to the Commission. When I'm at the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics says that when no government has more power in the council, a man is the only person to be taken care of. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers and repeated questions mentioned earlier: Has the president discussed these matters at the highest level? Financial and economic ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with them anyway. Council members who have attended the discussion that took place yesterday regarding the words of the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers. I have to admit that I find it a bit unusual to call for a response from a respectable president, but I don't get any answers about whether those calls have been sent or not. In fact, we don't know whether a minister received the message that was clearly overlooked by many of them yesterday. I remind you, the highest. Secretary of finance is also a member of Congress. He is in a position to come up here for a speech chair, therefore under the council or other teams, and simply discuss with us at the council. But I call for clear answers from a respectable president to see if these messages were reached to the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u7	Madam President. It notices when the highest. Secretary of the economy is talking about the council being out of control and immoral. That's what we senators call to the highest. President, he's taking this case to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It is not normal for the council to be subjected to such harassment. These words were in harmony with the fact that much criticism has been made about the lack of financial resources of a transport plan. Transport is a legal document, just as a political arrangement for financial and financial policies that we are to work on in public finance, after a new procedure. We must take seriously the position of the Council and the transport program adopted and is a legal document. There is nothing that humans can give in to it and say that decisions made in this field have been made under uncontrollably. [[The president calls.]] I trust it to the highest. Mr. President will not let this happen to us who are working in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u8	A respectable president. Well, then let's make it a small tradition here that I'll come in defense of a president because of comments about the lack of a planned program. As mentioned in the discussion and as discussed, my comments were that it was the length of the discussion. Why it is difficult to plan a schedule many days into the future is not the length of the discussion per se but the unpredictable. Last night, for example, there was talk about a frame plan. She could have run out in two hours, she could have continued today. While that is the case, it is a little difficult to see how the program will be in the days ahead. I know that the applications are ahead in the scholarship to students. I'm going to push the idea into the community that people will go to a microanalysis to predict the length of discussions, such as the number of issues involved and what cases will be proposed. I think that might be very useful. I think that while this is the situation, while we do not plan ahead for the length of discussion, it is difficult for a president to plan a program long into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u9	Madam President. I want to take back a thread as good as any. Councilmen have been talking here, i.e. in terms of words at the highest. Secretary of finance for the Generals. I reiterate the question directed to the highest level. The president, if she's taken this case to the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. Ministers here are represented by the Generals, and it is only slightly strange to speak in a manner in which the Alleglers, the legislators'decision, as the Supreme Court. A minister made in the media yesterday. I think it raises some serious questions about the Lawgiver's position in the highest sense. Minister and the highest. A minister who spoke in this way. I know that the President who is our leader here at the council and the spokesman takes his part very seriously. So I reiterate these questions: Has the highest. President took these matters up to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u10	A respectable president. I'm not gonna let you do that. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek being the only senator to come up with a defense of the President. The discussion of meeting activities is certainly not new. Like what? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek points out how this turns, including to the time we spend discussing matters. Part of the program of this election season must again be trying to achieve some sort of agreement on how we want to conduct Congress. If we believe that there is an important possibility for preparatory action here, there have been a number of discussions about looking to the other northern countries and deciding how long the discussion should take place. On the other hand, I have always said that we need to make sure that the smaller part of the Generals gets them other than standing here in a pita and talking, including that less items can be turned to national law, as it is. in the Constitution in Denmark. This is a big deal, but not something as president, as powerful as it is, can handle one. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u11	Madam President. I come up to react only to comments at the moment. paritaprevir Paul Bartoszeks and really why. paritaprevir And so is the Eygló of Harðardóttir, which I'm saying, it's true that we should have more tools than the conversation in here. I'm happy if we're going to spend some time discussing this and find a common conclusion on how we want Congress to be treated, but at the same time, I think it might just be possible to publish a schedule that we all know can change. At any rate, we have some idea of what matters are being planned, which bill is being discussed, so we have an overview of it, always bearing in mind that if the discussion grows, it will change. That's what it says. However, it should be quite possible to make it possible for the public to also be able to be informed about the issues that might be discussed and therefore have time to make comments that could be very important in the discussion here at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u12	President. Happy birthday. I just wanted to agree with it. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen went in and read to you the program today, which could have been placed in place as a plan and had been inside the week. We're going to discuss the final budget, orlof the housewives, farm members, unemployment insurance, reform rights of prisoners, weddings, and vows, the transfer of the Landland Guard to the city of Rhines and residences of the National University of Iceland. If it had been clear that these matters were planned for the council program this week, as well as perhaps other matters that will even exist tonight and will be planned tomorrow, then, would have been, like, well. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen came in, making it easier for us senators as well as the public to call for information from society. I think it's a little key to the Senate job that it's fixed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u13	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen and what. Birgitta In this regard, Birgittir Jónsdóttir. The program is about priorities, to know which language next comes in, no matter how the situation is arranged exactly in the days. We know that if a discussion persists, all the others will be pushed backwards. This priority is being reordered at the Monday meeting of the council classes. Then we'll find out on a reasonable scale before the following week. It's only about having your list of priorities, so we know the next issues to come up with. It doesn't have to be exactly this case or that on Wednesday or Thursday, just that things are coming, so we have to start preparing for it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u14	A respectable president. There's two things I want to talk about here, one that's about the highest words. Secretary of finance. Although he is responsible for his words, he is in a particular category. I'm curious about what groups of members and women are at the highest rate. The minister of finance finds these words of his. It is a perfect opportunity for the person to leave his voice here at the end of the conference board in this room, in this chair, just now. The rest of the matter focuses on the program. During my studies at a German university, I learned of a German professor of grammar who, in effect, wrote the names of students who had turned in extensive essays and possibly boring many each, and hung on their door. Then they could all see where they were. [[The president calls.]] They could not see when the professor had reviewed the essay, but they could at least see the order and imagine when it would come. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u15	That in weekly meetings, presidents of Congress are being arranged for a program. It explains what already lies ahead for the meeting program. For example, this week it was quite clear that the matter presented here on the budget of the final budget would be scheduled today. However, the regular schedule could not be established until yesterday's day had its start. In case of a moment. Congress officials believe that they want to negotiate the right of a relatively flexible talk period, of course, the president will check it with members of the Parliament and with the Committee to President, but the president does not know that the general opinion of the council is at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u16	A respectable president. I live alone, I'm single, I have a small dog. I talk to myself and the dog a lot, so I'm kind of used to not being answered when I'm talking. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] However, I have to admit that I feel sorry that a respectable president does not answer me or answer me again. Councilmen already have direct questions to her regarding the highest level of questions. President has discussed these matters with the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that he understands his words we have made here as a subject for the past two days. I'm calling again for the highest. A president, our leader at the council, defends the respect of the council. To this end, I declare a respectable president of the United States, saying, "To our President, Hail."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u17	Mr. President thank you very much. The president, when several members of the Parliament have requested to speak to the President's conference board, to listen to what senators have to offer and to consider since what occasion it is appropriate to get involved in that discussion. And now we're at that point. The president has had a conversation with the secretary of finance, and he has called attention to the discussions that were held here in the Hall yesterday, and the president points out that the highest level of the matter is in progress. The minister will be here to answer in unparled question period tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u18	President. I want to thank you very much. I have to say, a president prior to his move, although it was quite a minimum in relation to the occasion. She explains that she had a conversation with the highest level of conversation. A minister, but not in her comments about what that conversation was all about. I would like to ask a president to guide us to the truth as to what she stands for in the words of the Minister. First of all, regarding the agreement of a process of transport, which means that it was an immoral act on the part of the council. Second, the very word of the same minister calling it a mistake to complete an approved budget and that the council was out of control. That's the three things I'd like to get to the top. The president reacts, whether she has made the Minister aware that those words were unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u19	President. I must declare disappointments with the new category of restoration. When his members are not prepared to answer any other members of the same important matter, I don't feel that it is somehow out of harmony with what this new category was making for themselves. I'd like to make a decision that, although me and Porta's senators have called for a plan of the week, that does not mean that Piratar and I are ready to give away the right to discuss a case that we feel is urgent or that we are ready to agree with it for other members of Congress who have expressed themselves about it, so that it is being held in place. But we would like to have the constitution changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u20	Madam President. There's a little competition going on about this particular case. Secretary of finance. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson has been saying that there will be someone from the highest station. Secretary of the budget, to clarify his position. It would be nice to have representatives of the other colleagues. Here's a sidebar. paritaprevir The Birgir son of Ármannsson, representing the Independence Party. I'd love to hear from him, too, something else. A senator from the bright future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u21	A respectable president. I must answer, then, that I personally feel that if the General decides that a two-week pre-election process will be effective in increasing the popularity of the groups that are at the expense of those classes that are not. I don't think that's to be followed. Especially if some members of the council, and they have to take to heart what they have, bear in mind that what they have may not be able to do. They will take care of themselves. In such a situation, I feel that it is not to be followed, but I must allow it to the highest level. Secretary of finance to answer for his choice of words, how he puts it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u22	Madam President. I cannot put my last words into words, for the reason is why. A general assembly is being set on a very dangerous course if the follow - ups are not bound by any of what has been done during the past councils. Then all of us must consider whether it is rhythmical - if we want to get emphasis on something that has been approved, should we just lay down and volunteer in the power of a new name and a new political party? That way, of course, we can't work here. Of course, the entire election is always bound by the decisions made, and new decisions need to be made in case they disappear from that direction. Another thing is that my crazy work is being done, and then we're in very dangerous paths with democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u23	A respectable president. I can't say I can't speak because of what to say. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks said we're just doing this in some political game. That's what's up. A senator recognizes the condition of the road system? It takes approximately 10 billion just to keep the ring road, highway No. 1st It's what it is. A senator really liked what he did. The Environment and Transport Committee taking over the Road and all of the countryside and hearing that this road and the other road are going down? No, this is complacency, a crisis of existence, it's the government's new-free thinking that doesn't want to put the taxes, doesn't want to spend on what's in common. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The road system is in common, it wasn't part of a political game or poopulaism that we had in the operation of putting in an extra 10 billion on a transport program, so I gave up that kind of speech and comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u24	Madam President. I would like to express my admiration for Mr. President's endurance to be subject to a declared immorality, such as others who agreed to a travel program during the last assembly. It was based, not on immorality, but on a greater need throughout the country. The urgent need was still there for financial contributions, and again I admire a president to sit quietly and call her like other senators who approved of the budget and thus responded to this urgent need for transportation - that they are aggressors. Councilmen are called out of control. I'd like to have it brought here to my book that I don't think President is immoral or out of control, only comfortable with a respectable president, and I'd like to hear the highest order. The secretary of finance agrees with that statement and apologizes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u25	Madam President. After all, it was. paritaprevir Mr. Paulels Bartoszeks would like to read this up, with the permission of a president: ▪ Following the economic collapse, the urgent and even urgent implementation of the road system had to be delayed. The present problem is not only a problem but also a new problem with increased stress on the road system as a result of the increased number of tourists. The assessment of the road transport fund for maintenance and implementation is not overassessment, but most important is responsible for building wood. Correction suggests that a market-based resource will be taken up in the country's share, a travel-service fee will be taken up. Then it continues to talk about 32 billion dollars. Building. If it was irresponsible to accept a road program that would meet the people's needs, what would it be called bringing a campaign like that? A senator, in the process of elections, and then do nothing with them when they are signed by the government covenant? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u26	A respectable president. It happened to me last night, like many other nights, actually, to watch the evening news of the state TV. It was a report written by Copenhagen Economy at the request of Land activation for the electricity market. There a Danish expert spoke. He spoke some intelligent things, yet there were some things he said that amazed me and even troubled me. He even remembered. so far, electric prices to the scale have been too low and have not yielded enough profit. Society, i.e. The common people, in effect, were subsidizing the electricity to the governor. There's no new news. We've known that for a long time. He also said it was changing. Electrical power prices are rising to the industry. That's not new news, either. What's new, and what amazed him was that he pointed out that now the price of electrical energy to promote might be needed to increase, so the energy companies did not lose interest in selling electricity to the homes. What a lot of dumb shit that was out there. Happily, the interview was followed by the director of the Land activation program. He's got a hell of a way out of it. But I'm worried about the seeds this noble Danish man planted there. The public in Iceland pays low electricity prices in comparison with other countries, and I think that it is permitted for the Icelandic public to continue. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u27	A respectable president. Clearly, each morning's morning's paper needs to be read like a cryptologist during World War II to know what his rights and changes are being smuggled around. On the same day as the standardized tests begin, the morning issue showed that the higher schools have the authority to use scores from a standard 9th grade test to distinguish prospective newer students. We need to be lucky to read a paragraph in the national media fleet to see that the former minister of education changed the purpose and nature of the uniform tests, the minister of the employment at that time. This suggests that many who are now tired of a compatible test have not been able to know that they can be rejected for high school on the basis of them. Me and others stood in the sense that it was over that these tests should separate between a dead one and a dead one. It was decided to stop this harmful mess, which was in harmony with the tests. Suddenly, it is opened to the fact that they can be used as some guillotine, and it is announced in a magazine that students in basic schools do not normally subscribe. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u28	Madam President. I'd like to make it a subject today what we really want to do as legislature and if it's not time to stop and see what consequences the Senate's laws have on society. Is the law always in harmony with the community that we want to promote? The goal of imprisonment is correction, but the reality is punishment because of the lack of opportunities within the prison because of lack of financial support. The aim of a century service is to have a carefree life night for the elderly, but in fact, because of lack of financial support, some institutions with whom the old are free, drug, and nutrition are lacking. The goal of student loans is access to education for all, but it is, in fact, elimination for many because of lack of financial resources. The aim of transport programmes has become empty because of lack of financial resources. In fact, it is in every respect that the management groups direct the debate in the lack of the tax from big business and government policy that ensures that the profit of the country's common resources flows to a small number of fishing companies and foreign centres in the big business sector, manttran in subsections due to lack of capital and market resources. Young people in the country cannot come under the influence of education, for they cannot ensure basic human rights, such as having a roof over their heads and access to education regardless of the economy. Old people live in want. For example, when it comes to poverty, it is true that a person is People with healing diseases are judged to be on hold in the lists. The government often talks about responsibilities and stability, but the stability seems to be unchanged, and responsibility is only to capital owners and big companies. At which point we face the fact that we are not on the right track. This requires courage and willingness to rethink society from the ground. This requires the will and ability to talk about the future, the future of our children, the future of the resources, the future of climate, the future of the financial system, and so on. There is more advice and reasoning than there is no money and cutting is the only option. Is there enough courage in this house to face this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u29	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, a synopsis proposal for protection and the use of priming initiatives was proposed for a discussion in this hall. The discussion was good, and I heard that most members of the council would agree that the methodology of a frame plan would be a good tool for evaluating activation options, even though it was not necessarily perfect. No doubt it could be tailored to a few shortcomings, and of course there are differing opinions about the activation initiatives, which may seem to be unique to whom. This excellent discussion included not only priming but also the distribution of electricity, electrical security, and electricity. Today, you see, not all the people of the country have access to three - fold electricity, which is a major source of employment for cleaning in certain areas of the country. Farmers may, e.g. not updated equipment to suit up new regulations requiring cleaning electricity, i.e. The equipment requires it. Of course, this is not okay in 2017. We certainly need to take care of this class and do much better. V.E.G. President. After reading last night's reactor report on the ideas of certain parties of exporting energy, I could not take an account of the electricity issues here today. What does it mean to waste energy on such talk when the distribution of electricity is not sufficiently secure across the country? The advance team rejects any ideas of exporting electricity, and it stresses that energy produced in Iceland will be used as a valuable creation in a country where a powerful industry is the foundation of farming and valuables. The one mentioned here recently proposed a written inquiry to the highest level. Industrial Minister at the highest level. A minister is asked about his policies regarding the export of electrical energy. It'll be interesting to see what the answer will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u30	Madam President. The idea of a special date of women's struggle had Clara Zetkin, a German woman of women's rights, and a socialist, who first held it at a meeting of the International Association of Socialist Women held in Copenhagen in 1910. Since then, March 8 has been the International Day of Women's Fight. The battle between women's rights and equality, however, is somewhat older, so - called sufforts were quite militarized women, who fought with unusual and harsh fellow men, such as famines, for women's affairs at the end of the 19th century and for the beginning of the 20th century, both in the British Empire and in the west. The opposers said that women were too emotional to be important in power. They would not be able to think logical and balanced like men. Sadly, we still see such attitudes, even recently at the European Parliament, which are, fortunately, rare today. It is often claimed that gender equality has already become reality in this country, both by law and the Icelanders are so aware of the importance of equality that it is hardly measured. I'm sorry, this is wrong. Injustices abound, and the position of men and women is certainly not equal as long as there is a gender difference in pay. Strong women and role models have set the path for the rest of us here. Although women are close to half of the members of Congress, there is certainly a sexist at the government table. It is necessary and it is a matter of justice for women to sit just like men at tables where important decisions are made for society, whether it is in government, during councils, on rural governments, on contract committees for purchases and terms, or in corporate governments. During the last district election, there were twice as many men in first place as women, or 123 men and 61 women. I'd like to encourage women to take some time and attention to the local elections that will occur in a few months. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u31	A respectable president. I wanted to have a word here. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson. Yesterday, there was a structured program, and it seemed that some members of the Independence Party viewed them as having material warnings about the proposal for the administration. So I ask why. A member of Parliament whether individual members of the Parliament of the Independence Party or the group as a whole have warned of the content of the proposal, since if so, it would put all payment and discussion on that matter in new light. I'd like to, Mr. President, mainly, to speak here and celebrate the International Women's Day of Battle and congratulate all of us on the day. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank all women who have taken a beating over the years for remuneration against sexual violence, for sexual freedom, for constant opportunities, and for greater benefits. I think, a respectable president, it's important that we use the day to sharpen the exhibit, to join our hands in the battle, that we will stand up with fathers of all genders who are taking the fight and beating every day, that we stand with our mothers, with our sisters and our daughters in the interests of a better community, and for a better world. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u32	V.E.G. President. So I'll react first to the speech of the last speaker. Svavarsdóttir I'll take my congratulations on ladies for today's celebration. However, for a discussion of a frame plan that she also introduced in her talk, it is best to guess, in the first place, that the subject was discussed by the individual members of the Independence Party comments and warnings relevant to the individual teams of the Framework Programme. It is not a matter of warning the whole issue. Rather, it did support the Independence Party's contribution and will be involved in the release of the opinion, although they are certainly divided by the number of teams mentioned in the framework of the various categories. Finally, I wanted to give some comments. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen before I know that Iceland is in many ways the right way. The black picture she drew of the state of affairs in this country is by no means justified by me. We are making good progress in many areas. We have not yet reached our destination, and we know that in many areas, including some of them, we have not yet reached our destination. to those whom she specifically mentioned, we have many unworked tasks. However, it is perfectly out of harmony with the reality of painting things as dark as she did in her speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u33	A respectable president. Yesterday, members of the council became members of every category at the General Assembly of Children. We accepted the responsibility of guided by the children's covenant in our work. The Young People's Council called on us. The main room was full of reporters, most of whom decided not to tell anything or to look down on the important points youths made. On behalf of the children's spokesmen, I would like to ask the youth who showed up here yesterday, hoping to draw attention to the rights of the children who acted in their behalf for their not getting far out of the room we were sitting in. As a spokesman for children, I have promised to seek to adopt a child - bearing perspective, value the rights and interests of the children, and highlight the impact of the decisions made at the council of today's children and of future children. For that reason, I'd like to mention Article 3 and 4. of the United Nations Children's Covenant. From 3. Gr., with the permission of the President, stands for what is best for the child: ▪ All decisions or measures made by the competent authorities should be based on the best interests of children. Laws and regulations should be set aside to ensure the protection and care that their welfare requires. Member States are to ensure that organisations and services caring for children meet governmental regulations, especially government safety, health protection, staff size and abilities and oversight. And in the 4th. Article 3 of the Treaty, of the responsibility of Member States, says: ▪ Member States are to provide children with the rights required by the Children's Member State to provide what they can do, including the rights of the children's covenant, depending on their ability to perform. By law and order. The Kingdom shall help ensure that these rights will be guaranteed to all children. At the end, I want to thank the young men for the comments they made to us yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u34	Madam President. I congratulate women of the International Women's Battle Day. Certainly, the equality of the sexes is important to all of us. Of course, the task in the equal struggle is a lot of urgent, e.g. The battle against sexual violence and the payload. However, I would like to mention a recent case in the news. This is of vital importance to both genders, but especially to women's health. This is a fine example of the original thinking and the use of intelligence in behalf of mankind. In the near future, we will face dramatic social changes because of technology. Such qualities as creation and ideaism will become more and more important. That is why there is never enough force for us to cultivate such qualities. The nuclear Elina Berglund Bergund and her husband have invented a telephone that is actually a contraceptive. It works so that women measure their body temperature with a thermometer under the tongue each morning and move the results into the app. The App calculates the days when it is safe to engage in non-hormonal sexual activity. Some 150,000 women in 161 countries use the program, which is said to be as safe as the pill. It has now been shown by an established government agency in Germany and is considered a suitable method of contraception. This is an example of a brilliant discovery that at the same time works as the older methods, cost very little, but relieves women from the side effects of the pill. These include nausea, vomiting, increased blood pressure, phlebitis, and coronary artery disease, followed by less frequent symptoms such as cerebral bleeding and special eye conditions, to name something. Interestingly, the inventor is not a healthcare professional but a nuclear physicist. Rather than attaching religion to the defined articles, the gift of creation makes it possible for creative individuals to find clever solutions to different subjects with original thinking. Here, intelligence has managed to replace drugs with technology. Madam President. This was about our one inexhaustible resource, our intelligence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u35	Madam President. I congratulate the women of this country on this day of battle. RUS reports that the tax fraud is on its way and that there is an investigation at the office of the tax investigator. In the review of the head of the IRS on our synopsis proposal left green on the chain responsibility, which is now a matter of well-being history, there is a difference. to avoid paying taxes and to try to place responsibility for taxpayers on subsidies, more and more contractors took steps to avoid paying taxes. It is noted that there is much evidence to indicate that this is now done with a much clearer purpose and that there is a substantial amount of money. But with our left green proposal for chain responsibilities, the main contractors would have financial responsibility that his subsidiaries and warehouses would respect the terms of collective agreements and by law. The need for such chain responsibilities is clearly high, considering that there are now 22 cases to study with an tax investigator and less than 2 billion. There is no small amount of money in relation to the need for transportation and other structure in the country. In many countries, chain responsibilities have been included in collective agreements as well as in this country's tender exodus of several rural communities and public institutions. We know the Samherja case of the Netherlands, which came up during the days and is an investigation, where chain commitment laws apply and cover public pay and earners of pay. So it is very important to agree to the left green proposal on chain responsibility and legalize it. The reviewers who have turned in comments on a welfare committee are very positive; state tax manager, tax investigator and Iceland's Personnel Association. Yet, the economic community is not as positive as you wonder about it, given the seriousness of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u36	A respectable president. Today, women's international struggle day is a good reason to pause and consider equality. It is, in fact, amazing to think that since most women would naturally be second - rate citizens, they would not use human rights such as elections, their husbands'master' authority, and they would be financially dependent. It would be their responsibility to care for the sheep and the children. Happily, this situation has changed, but much remains to be done. We still live on sex - based pay, illegal amounts of pay, which are explained only by gender. For some reason, what men are dealing with seems more important and to more fish than what women are dealing with. It can be changed. Women are increasingly applying to the work previously marked men, but it is easier to increase the number of men in so - called women classes. What causes this? Are we still caught up in old-fashioned ideas about sex, masculinity, and feminineity? We need to look at the full amount of wages and discern what is behind them. We're gonna have to erase stereographs on traditional women and men's work. A step toward changing the types, drawing forward, and making visible that women can be plumbers, and carpenters and men can be nurses and drama teachers. Hence, there is a special reason to commend the project to ◯Kennails for bringing their weight on the scales. In a similar way, old - day ideas cannot be changed, as history shows us that changes in these matters always take place slowly. Clearly, the chariot of these changes does not move in its wheels unless it is dragged forward. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Our responsibility. Senators are a lot. We are to do our part in breaking down walls and roofs that separate the sexes from the labour market. Distinctive pay. Let us be a model and eliminate gender abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u37	A respectable president. I can't help but say congratulations for women for today. In fact, I could stand here for all my assigned time and support a number of talks that have been delivered today. They've been quite good and come into a lot of good and urgent cases. But that's not what I'm going to do. I would like to make a subject of the fact that has been discussed in the past few days and beyond, and that is the situation in transportation. I'd like to be happy to hear that the secretary of transportation has now come to flee from her previous statements, which led to the fact that the situation would be just as if it were, and nothing could be done about it. Now it's got the highest. A minister said that he was trying to get extra money from the lawsuit party, and that's a good thing. I've previously declared that we at the council Hall and on the Environment and Transport Committee could support it. Let us not forget that the arrangement for transportation was agreed. It wasn't just air - like some people have wanted to talk about. It was simply a matter of view, so the need was greater and, in fact, no one doubts about it. The need is huge and has not diminished. As a result, it is unfortunate to see how things are handled, that there should be no more effort to carry out the will of the Allied Council, which was so clearly made clear in this legal system of transport. But God will let it be good, and hopefully this battle will be ours, which has led to the highest. The secretary of transportation has changed course in policy, in order to get more money into this important suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u38	Madam President. My dear women, and especially my dear mother, to my happiness of the day. I'd like to draw the attention of the Council here and the government on the importance of more detailed articles between the EEA legislation and the possibility of a special amenian supplement or advising that some may wish to do in connection with the EEA prime products. Over the years, it has been stated that the route has been to add to the EEA's legislation of special imports or extensions or measures that, in some cases, go beyond the original bill. This methodology has fueled a lack of confidence between the council and the Commission in the management and payment of EEA affairs here at the council. In some cases, people have feared that a minister might try to slip something into a law that is not required in the original form of the EEA bill and for payment. In some cases, that fear has been logical. So I want it to be directed to the highest. Governments, and sharpens it, to record the good procedure that the EEA's induction products are pure enforcing products and do not contain a custom amenoch code of any kind. If there is any reason to go further in some area that the EEA treats, much better is it that the local Ministry will provide its special bill. Better management legislation is designed to create more and more solid trust between Congress and government, and again between the government and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u39	Madam President. Like a couple of sledgehammers. Today, on March 8, the International Day of Women's Fight, members of Congress have established their talks. Women in many parts of the world celebrate this day, and Iceland is no exception. In the afternoon, after an hour, there will be a meeting of various members of the Indian community where this year's theme is the growing ethnic crisis and a relapse in the women's legal battles and minorities. I'd like to put this into context with the international situation today, but the U.S. President Trumpur's government now introduced its first financial bill, which was expected to be a major cut into a number of cases, especially on development and environment. These are both cases known and acknowledged to exert special influence on women, especially in the poorer countries of the world. At the same time, however, historical increases are expected in military donations. The increases that could trigger a new arms race. The United States also insists on its alliances in NATO that there is also an increase in military funds. State Department websites report at the highest level. Iceland's secretary of state at a security conference at the Grand Hotel spoke for increased Iceland's funds for security and protection. However, we do know that our contributions to development have been replaced as a proportion of land production for many years. [[The president calls.]] I think it's right to point this out for today because foreign politics are certainly also sexist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u40	A respectable president. At lunchtime, I listened to a truly interesting subject for Rose Gottemoeller, who discussed the Atlantic Alliance and international and security in the Norwegian house, but Rose is the first woman to be the vice president of NATO. It is evident that many important assignments are faced by NATO, but the meeting was not just remarkable for all the important matters that were presented there; rather, it was a magnificent meeting of women. It was not difficult to be among the vice president of Prefect Gottemoeller, Pia Hansen, director of the International Ministry of the University of Iceland, Elínardóttir Sólveig Elinardótir. President of the State Department, and Mr. Anna Jonsson's Jóhannsdóttir ambassador on this great day, the International Battle Day of Women. Happy birthday to everyone. We are outstanding in equality, but we can always do better. We are also required to use our powers and positions to discuss equality globally, but this made me my subject at the NATO Council of Brussels last month when I asked Jens Stoltenberg, the Directorate of NATO on the Women's Plan, Peace and Security Agends, or the National Opportunity plan, how it went on. Although there is still a struggle, NATO has taken an important step in these matters. We set a fine example for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u41	Madam President. As discussed below, there is no time to review all aspects of the Mosaic Law covenant in education or other school projects. So I will be limited to the so - called 25 - year rule, and the latter will discuss a variety of business forms, which seem to be a goal of the Constitution. We are facing larger social changes in the coming decades, but we have had to deal with it for a very long time, and our professional life will change, as I mentioned earlier. With self - mutilation and artificial intelligence, we will hold back, unknown tickets, and the only practical way to meet this challenge is to promote and adapt this new reality. Education will be in the future in one way or another a part of a person's life, not by the arrangement they are today. Young people are our most precious resource. Today it can choose the entire world in the field, and it is not default for Iceland to be chosen. So we are totally dependent on creating that quality, and this is especially true in education. The job life will call for, to a greater extent, creative and initiativeful individuals, and that quality we have to start developing, the highest. Minister, right away at the theatre. V.E.G. Even though a minister of education may not be able to get much distance from this project for the next four years, it will take longer to keep seawater. Now, though, he has the opportunity to initiate the application to meet this new reality. The first steps you take are to make it possible for all to study. In a sense, the government contract is a good promise, but it says, with the permission of a president: The possibility of an elderly student who has not completed high school at the usual time should be met. This includes a common benefit for the individual and for society all that constitutes an opportunity for authority and welfare. However, in view of the changed educational policies adopted for 2015, it is necessary to ask further questions on this subject. You see, for those 25 years of age, the number of book students in high school was mass limits. The course was effective, and the number of students was reduced by a rate of 40% between years. Students were referred to as private schools that run basics and the cost of students multiplied. You see, the government pays the same amount for students in full - time studies in private and high school schools. This can be read in a report by both Kingdom Review and by reviewing a recent follow-up report from 2012. Thus, 25 - year - old rule does not save money, nor does it result in fewer students studying. The population of the country's population is severely affected by mass restrictions, as well as much more by women than by men. There are several reasons why a person may slow down in his study, and experience in making it possible for him later in life to do so is very good. Thus, after 25 years of age in high school in their hometowns, many students have taken study at university and are now engaged in many activities in rural areas all over the country. It used to be difficult. As noted earlier, the rule of women is far more harsh than men. So I would like to ask a minister if there is any way to open the way again for 25 years and over to the public high school, or should you continue to direct people to private resources where high schools are charged? I also want to ask the highest. A minister in the first talk, whether or not to collect additional school expenses from high school and university students.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for handling this discussion and sharing with him the views that we face a great challenge in education. It is clear that such changes are taking place, both in the pursuit of a student's offer, in the course of study, and in the way it is accepted, working with it, and making them angry. Happily, there are good and good ideas in this area of school, far beyond that. This morning, I received information on a subject that is being studied and is now available to introduce you soon. So there are a number of factors in this environment that are highly fermenting. We see many good work in this regard. For the points in which I share my thought and presentation. A senator's role in education is to play a key role in preparing the population for participation in a democracies society. Knowledge, culture, art, and innovation in the coming years will be even more important for industry, culture, and society than it has done in recent decades, and this will thus become a growing foundation for the well - being of the people of the land. These emphasis is in line with the regulations in the government covenant and in various aspects of this matter are being carried out on various projects within the Ministry in the language field that I preside over. I'd like to mention it, for example. A review of high school models, working to reduce the elimination in high school, in particular, the promotion of workers, the work being done. Then I'd like to mention one thing that I know we're wrong. A senator is both interested in the way art and engineering are being conducted in elementary schools. As a result, the Ministry's review reveals that the rural communities have not been working and securing related academic contributions, which are extremely difficult to accept. We must be able to agree to encourage the rural communities to do some braking over there, though that is all. With regard to the 25-year rule mentioned here, I would like to say that it is included in the letter set out in a letter list from the Council of Regulation (a) originating from 2008 Regulation No. 1150. It was slightly changed in 2012, and since 2012 no change in Regulation has been made. So I don't quite understand the 25-year rule here except for the priorities of high school to follow, I pray. A senator to observe this, based on this regulation on oral intake and internalization of students, and only about book study, as it is said. It contains these letters from a◯i, a long list, but the Regulation has been applied only to the book study. In fact, what I believe and believe was referred to as the 2015 budget was assumed to be a significant contraction. My sources of information in the Ministry suggest that the text not been tested in the definition of the budget bill in 2015 and to the extent that restrictions were applied to the admissions of high school students are the priorities on which it is followed and based on the original regulations set in 2008. My sources from the Ministry state that no 25-year-old candidate was dismissed from high school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u43	Madam President. The Declaration of the Government states that a stable education independent of the economy is an important prerequisite for each individual to thrive. This must be true of all of us. We are fortunate, in fact, that the education system here in Iceland has become a major equal factor, so regardless of the background of individuals who go to elementary school and high school, we're pretty much equal. We can receive a comparable education in most parts of the country, so social conditions should not interfere with their education. The information the minister mentioned here regarding the 25 - year rule now conflicts with what you hear from a high school class. But it was natural a capitalite that the 25 - year - old rule was used in subsidies, not after the discussion of human romance from this platform. It seems odd to me that in the pages of the morning newspaper, the council heard that a consistent test has suddenly begun to cross into school based on how it is. Something that we thought was decomposed is suddenly resumed without any discussion, without any human opinion in this field. How can that be? How can you resist being undermined by any means of social equality by means of some means of education, through starving the education system, without being taken here to make decisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u44	A respectable president. When it comes to justifying education, there are many ways. It is common to do so by referring to some kind of use of society, saying that it is good to have real intelligence because we somehow promote the industry or innovation. I don't belittle the fact that these are important reasons, but there are others, and there are equally important reasons. It is that a good education has meaning in itself. That is why I especially love the sentence as a man. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson read up here from the government's policy declaration that a stable education independent of the economy is an important basis for each individual to thrive. I think that's an important approach. I think we should accept and view education in such a way that with rich and prosperous society, people will have the opportunity to spend part of their lives in an environment where they can develop and develop their own interests and sometimes share with other people who share their interests and want to develop them. But I would like to draw attention to a case that I know that many students are concerned about and subject themselves to the student's maternity rights. It is a matter of growing up that students who have to go to a maternity school have the right to have a birth span of over $6,000, which is not much. Still, they cannot increase that right; their secular work does not increase that right. That's what it's about to go up. I realize fully that there is money and all this money, but to some extent it is a legal matter of how we distribute this money. I think it would be worth this room to keep in mind the nature of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u45	A respectable president. The government's declaration of policy includes, by permission of the President: To cope with a reduction in the number of teachers and reduce attendance at teaching school for pre-school and elementary and high school, it is essential to promote a teacher's education. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister: What do these words mean? Is it necessary to promote a teacher's education? Is it impossible today? If it's impossible, how do we keep it? Will the content of the study be changed? Did we shorten our study? Are we going to go through the study? What do we do? Is the problem shrinking into this particular teaching course? Or what? Could it be that it lies somewhere else? In fact, I know that the teacher's average age is quite high, so there's going to be a lot of renewal within a few years. But why not ask, " Why do more than half of the educated high school teachers choose to serve outside the field of high school? ' What will the minister do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir "Logi Einarsson, very much for this discussion today and the highest. Education minister for the answers. I am very grateful that we are discussing the government covenant and educational matters here. This chapter of the Constitution is dear to me, and I recognize that there are many things on which I can find them. The Constitution says, by permission of the president: (a) What is the most important requirement for each individual to thrive? (b) Why is it important to study the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses? The education system plays a key role in preparing the country for participation in democratic society and knowledge, culture, art, innovation, and science are crucial to the building of employment and the building of quality of life. The government will take the lead in promoting all levels of education. And: To cope with a reduction in the number of teachers and reduce attendance at teaching school for pre-school and elementary and high school, it is essential to promote a teacher's education. That's what I think is why we can build up the educational system that was previously described. Last week, a report published by the State Reconnaissance stated that there is a serious lack of teachers. This has long been pointed out to us in the early stages of school. I'm asking the highest. Education Minister: Is the Ministry getting started on how to deal with this problem? Is there a plan of action? You can't wait a minute longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u47	V.E.G. President. That's a good talk. I want to catch the ball from what? paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty and what. paritaprevir The Einar son of Brynjólfsson, i.e. to discuss only a predictable teacher card, which is already there and will be increased, and possible changes in teaching school. I don't think it's a shortcut. I am glad that the study was extended, but at the same time, attendance at it has reduced considerably. We need to take a look at it naturally, and I'll agree with it. The members of the council, asking the minister, " Will he respond? ' Will he possibly consider changing the study in such a way that the latter part of it could, for example, do so. were you a paid student? I think it's a way we should take a good look. For the 25-year rule, I also want to ask the highest question. Minister if a decline has been made after that rule was recorded. I believe the change was very positive, I believe the changes will improve efficiency and that we will be able to make more use of our educational systems. But I'd like to mention it here and point it to the highest level. Ministers say I've heard stories about how well high school was working on presenting to prospective students that this limitation is not relevant to engineering, as the Supreme Court does. Minister mentioned. For example, I've heard stories from VMA in Akureyri that people were simply dismissed when they were 26 in their late teens, thinking that they would finish their homework there. Schools are not as effective in upholding this. I want to point the top. A minister has it if he does not already know that he can use his power to further introduce himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u48	Madam President. The shift in budgets for 2015, where students in high school were reduced to the fact that 2008 regulations worked so that many graduates did not receive school. In the past, they had not had the first choice of going to any high school, but they received a school education. That's just the way it is. According to a written report from the Ministry of Education to my questions, college students in high school who were 25 years of age or older reduced between 2014 and 2015. This is the middle-of-the-art high school that's gone in one piece. And the effect of academicism over the last terms is far more apparent than this fact. Education cannot be taken away from us, it is valuable both for individuals and for the community as a whole. That is why it is very bad if fewer individuals are studying than the wish and incomprehensible and unwise to pursue educational policies that lead to such. A decision made during the last term on the number limitation rate in high school was very unwise, and it made those 25 years of age and older who want to apply for school feel that they are no longer welcome in high school book studies. The government put a stone in their path. We all know people who have had to stop studying because of certain unpredictable circumstances, such as illness or lack of money, but who have gone back to high school in their own country after such a break. Many of these serve in communities in many parts of the world. The highest. Minister confirmed that the educational policy of the former government was introduced with one sentence in a budget bill for 2015? Whatever their age, will book students be welcome in the high school country, or will they have to go to private schools for expenses? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u49	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. Like a lot of other guys. Congress has established in the Treaty of the Government that a stable education independent of the economy is an important requirement for each individual to thrive. But also, by permission of the president, it says: The university should be supported by maintaining quality and meeting international competition as cooperation and coordination between Icelandic universities and scientific institutions grow. The school system model has to be reviewed with regard to the different costs and diversity of the student group. I want to stop at this point, the models, because while it's tempting to discuss mainly other aspects of the education system, the quality and variety of education, the importance of teaching education and teaching skills, and the importance of a full forward learning system, it is also important to consider that the framework of the newly diagnosed system itself, and to discuss models. In a report of McKinsey's advisory company and a consultation group on the development of an increase in prosperity followed by how to improve production in order to achieve as good a community as possible in the future, e.g. discussed the importance of study for shorter and more efficient students. This smell in education discussion must also be applied in this regard. Decisions to e.g. making incentive for people to complete college early, therefore, is to consider making better use of the resources, time, and education system, not for any other reason, but in the interests of students, teachers, and the rest of the education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u50	President. Thank you for your time. First, I'd like to talk about what kind of accents it is in a community that is reflected in the educational policy of every government or government and that the Minister is more concerned with seeking us to live in a community that opens up our arms against people who want to be educated, that we are a society that wants education for all the economy at all levels. This is a fundamental thought that will be reflected in the decisions made each time. I also want the secretary to be very specific about the state of the Icelandic language in a digital world, which is also one of the cornerstones of the Icelandic education system at all school levels and in promoting language technology. He has already spoken about that matter. The one standing here has been very interested in that matter, hoping that the present time will be at its height. A minister takes this assignment seriously because it is a big deal. Third, I'd like to sharpen the Minister's interest in ensuring that human-talty decisions are taken on the basis of the council and the professional committees, i.e. that we may not get into what we have seen, and here we have discussed the 25 - year rule. Despite the heat. The minister is so, so we were actually making a human opinion about making a decision in the budget. The discussion never entered the General Information and Education Committee. We need to be careful that this is the case. Fourth, I want to mention what we would need to have a particularly large discussion about, which is a lack of teachers in the immediate future, and how we will respond to it, about the choice of teachers and money exchanges between the state and the community. And finally, about the funding of the university level and the importance of the competition at the university around us, not only for our community, but also for our people, for the construction of professional life, and for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u51	Madam President. I'm in danger of sounding like a plate when I have my case quoting the Constitution, with the permission of a president: A key requirement for each individual to thrive is education, regardless of his or her economic situation. But if something is worth sounding like a broken record, it's most likely a phrase like this. In order to accomplish this, we simply need to create an environment where each individual will grow, and many things must come into existence. I'd like a respectable president to stop at a factor I consider important, which is the variety and innovation that can result from using the benefits of an independent, active school. More often than often, it is important to support a wide variety of education, especially for children and adolescents during the formative years. It causes society and many outside circumstances. And there are ways of doing this while the system is not an obstacle. Experience shows that amongst the cost of an independent, often low - level school, they are often the site of innovation and evolution. We know, as many have been observed and also killed in the discussion, that there is concern about what the teachers'profession is about to age without sufficient recruitment. Of course, young teachers and teachers in general are highly educated in this country, and many naturally want an opportunity to reach the level of decision making. They would like to work in an environment where changes, innovations, and innovations are possible. Thus, a wide variety of schools allow not only parents to choose for their children but also teachers and managers to choose their work environment. How important it is that students of the study, art, and technology have the proper grasp of the choice set out for preschoolers! The less business modules that highlight innovation in these and other factors are an essential part of a wide range of education systems that treasure student equality and freedom of choice. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is not just the independent working schools that have and can emphasize innovation here. I would like to have a short time with you, a respectable president and the highest. Minister, the general school environment with developing grants, e.g. In the form of competitive funds, where both the public and the private functions could apply for projects that were for young people and innovation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, this would be a good way of adding to the diversity of teachers and would also be a step to ensure that every individual is properly educated in an increasingly diverse world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u52	A respectable president. Two things: Will Minister cancel the words of a joint test and the results of a consistent reference to the admission of high school students, which conflict with the purpose of a consistent test under the regulations of a consistent test? Second: By permission of the president, the Constitution states: Achieving student equality and freedom of choice requires, among other things, strengthening a wide variety of business forms. A respectable president. The variety of school - run forms has nothing to do with the student's equal or the student's choice of choice. The study environment, where and how a student learns and develops has nothing to do with how money flows from one pocket to another - except into math classes. In the leading school course, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ Respect for the worth and health of children and young people includes both respect for their human rights and recognition of their abilities and abilities. In addition: ▪ Children and young people are expected to learn democracy by learning about democracy. The only business form that matters to students is democratic. I would like to refer to a recent policy meeting with high school students in Reykjavík, where there was a request for more training in programming, better financial education, greater mathematics, smaller maths, more technology, better food and food culture in schools, gay education, and environmental awareness. That's the whole point. That's where the freedom of choice is. We need to strengthen and support students. With the permission of the President, I'd like to quote the 2014 Peace Malala Yousafzai, who was like this: ▪ Don't wait for esone else to presence and spade for you. It's you who can change the world. On our cover: ▪ Don't wait for someone else to speak for you. You are the one who can change the world. When you stand up for it, it affects your environment. Your voice, your choice, your choice. Skole's for students, not businessmen. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u53	A respectable president. I just want to come back on the importance of teachers, especially on the first level of our education. I've tried to think of what my first degree would be without a professional nursery teacher. Men, I can't allow myself to think like that. Two. Law on Law School, No. 90/2008, says by permission of the president: The goal of training and teaching in preschool should be: a. to monitor and promote child development in close cooperation with parents, b. to provide structured speech and to promote natural skills in Icelandic, c. to tend to children spiritually, intellectually, and physically, in accordance with their needs, that their youth may be enjoyed by their children; d. to promote the wideness of children and to promote their moral sense, ... to establish the basis for children to become independent, active, and responsible participants in a democratic society that is rapidly and constantly developing, B. to cultivate the ability of children to express and to create. to strengthen their sense of identity, their sense of health, their safety, and their ability to communicate. We're making up individuals in high school. We can't do it without professional teachers. I'd also like to mention the phenomenon I was introduced to a conference in Helsinki this summer, Baby Pisa or a Pisa test for five-year-old children working with OECD countries. I don't think Iceland can take part in such a trend until we've reached the legal level of law that two-thirds of the school's posts are designed by play-school teachers in the U.S. game schools. I also want to use this opportunity to mention the importance of the union of teachers, governments, and universities. This is urgent because it is about the future of the education system and the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u54	V.E.G. President. It will be interesting to hear what is at the top of the discussion. A minister has to say about the details we have entered here. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir Jónsson's son is concerned about the use of uniform tests and the changes that are taking place. I was just reading an article on RUSA recently, where teachers express themselves and express their wonder about these tactics. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What's your policy? What timeline do we have to prepare for these changes? I'd like to mention something else, the telecommunications, let's start with that. There we may reconnect with the 25 - year rule and the different availability of students. We're naturally with college kids now in several schools serving this older group very well, who somehow fell between ships and docks, and in part, they're people who have a long-term education. Iceland's university has been looking for a development in its telecommunications studies. Other schools are doing much better, e.g. HA, Bifrost, and other schools. I'd like to hear the emphasis. Minister on telecommunications and its structure. Finally, the labor program. We've been talking about the importance of engineering for a long time, and that's against classes. We don't have professionals. Some engineering branches are just dying. There's no one to pick them up. For example, shoework and other such articles, wallwork, and so forth. So I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister: What are we going to do? We agree on the importance of engineering. We agree that it needs to be built up. How will we do so? Is there a plan? Will a minister offer such a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u55	Madam President. I thank all the people here who have spoken and put them to good use. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Oddný Harðardóttir answered the highest. Ministers well with this 25 - year rule because it was just a phrase, of course, it's about the less money they put into it, which resulted in a reduced number of students from 1,165 to 718, or about 47 of this group. So I might as well turn the question to the top. A minister uses himself to expand his budget so that this group can return to study? Those who have observed the development of school see well over the years have lacked more money in the school system. There is no plan for the government of the present. So I'll just come to the second question. The Treaty states that with permission of the President, there must be equality and freedom of choice, among other things, to strengthen a wide variety of business plans. What is that supposed to mean? How does a wide variety of business plans ensure a student's balance? That's a familiar tone. The answer is private business. In my opinion, the only proper way to build a powerful official system that gives everyone the right to study wherever they live, whatever material they have, and whenever they want, and best for them to attend the study. So I need a question at last, Madam President, for the highest. A minister wouldn't tell me if I should pay higher schools. I would also like to ask: How does a wide variety of business plans provide a student's equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u56	A respectable president. In English you can always find an answer, including a question. I expect that. One inquirer wanted the answer to the questions, not necessarily new questions from the one listed here. I don't have any plans, just to be answered immediately, about some increase in school fees or anything like that, there's nothing going on. Regarding personal schools or diversity, I simply feel that way, and I am satisfied that when people study at any level, they make the most of their choice. It will be guaranteed by public funding and monitoring, as we both know the circumstances. Senators. Arkytown, where we both have experience, runs and finances private high school, and only goes really well, great work, and parents have chosen to live there with their children and receive excellent training. For other factors that have been observed here, where there is a reason. Senators have been around quite many places, I would like to thank you for the initial discussion. I'll tell you right away that in the 50 seconds I have left, I will never answer most of that inquiry. For the 25-year rule, it's like a whisker. The usefulness of the high school system brought attention to it. The rules haven't been changed. The 2008 protocol is the same as it was set, and there have been no regulations for 25 years in high school. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It is a long way from doing so. [[Up front.]] The rules had been changed in 2012. [[Top of the list: Reply.]] She's still the same, and she'll be the same. [[But are you going to add money?]] It is up to the General Assembly, and we did well in the 2017 budget, and I expect to have a good partnership with the Council when we handed over the budget of 2018. [[The president calls.]] I hear it from most people who have suggested that they support extra money in high school. So I rejoice with rage, as good responses were said. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u57	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for having a conversation about government vision for creative articles. While creating articles may be a relatively new term in Icelandic language, we can call them some form of title to what we on the other hand can call arts and the intelligent branches that we specifically associate with creation. The Treaty, the Government's declaration of policy, explains that culture and creative articles become more and more important to industry and valuables in Icelandic society and that the government will put forth effort to create creative branches of the quality of life and good work environment. Special attention is given to increased support for research and development in this field as well as to specific measures to ensure authorship protection. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for these research which is specifically under the government's policy declaration. Is it meant to give art special professional advice within a research fund? Is it meant to add money to research into art and creative articles within that principle? How is this aspect of employment being further developed? It is true that in 2011, the creative branches were evaluated, and in 2009, they were around 180,190 billion, considerably more than expected, and in fact, no one had thought that there could be so much meditation. But the value of these articles is not just economic. That is what we always need to keep in mind, that when we discuss the creative articles, we are also discussing lists of social values, values in themselves. They are important to us as a community, as individuals, and are not just assessed by the economic standards. But since this is the case in a policy declaration, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will we see a schedule for the arts and creative articles? Will we see such a program in the national budget that will be submitted? Is this to be expected to increase the number of months within the art team? Is it expected to promote special presentations centres in different arts? How exactly is the highest. A minister will imagine meeting the expectations of the government covenant? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers on what brings about the administration of creative articles which are divided into a number of advisers. At one time, the Ministry of Education and Culture began to coordinate the administration of the creative articles. Because they don't only have their home in the Ministry of Education and Culture, they've also been at the Department of Employment, the Department of State through the Iceland Office, they were for a time in the Ministry of Presidency but no longer after civilization was transferred; but we see that the government could be considerably more consistent and the vision clearer. Perhaps that is the least reason why artists met politicians for elections and made demands or made a request for a special Ministry of Culture. This did not happen with the present government. But how does a minister see that we can have a clearer view, a clearer administrative arrangement, around these important articles, which identify them as a regular professional, but also have their own special expertise in social matters and its artistic importance in themselves? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his vision of the administrations. Finally, I'd like to ask you about the registration of statistical information on art and creative work articles. For one thing, all of this work has shown that this registration is entirely inadequate. It is difficult to access detailed data on these articles. It is something that can be done in a relatively simple way, but of course it costs money like everything else. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on that. Finally, I would like to say that these factors may not be discussed enough at the General Assembly. However, since 2013 we have cultural policy approved by the General Assembly and have been followed to some extent by the Ministry of Ministers. Minister. I say for my part that I would have liked to see more power in this follow-up, because what we say to this group of languages, culture, list, creative articles, is coming back to me. It's not just crowns, it's also in a better community. This is one of the factors that really matter when we consider why people choose to live in certain parts of the country, that is, cultural and artistic work that really matters. So I think it's an important subject and it's important that we discuss more at the World Councilship because of all these diverse social and economic factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's bringing up a legal issue. I agree with what. A senator in that it is a subject that is now being brought in, especially in recent years, in a much stronger way than it used to be. The discussion is growing, but we may want to do more than discuss this group in this room. You're absolutely right. A senator points out, this is really a job. We see that many arts and cultural activities are a basis for great activity. Products of people in this area are buying and selling, sold throughout the world. A part of this is simply a vast and extensive business that flourishes the entire lives of people and enriches them in a good way. In recent years it has been under way to promote scientific research and innovation in this country. Today, research funds and technology funds have gained considerably more money. I remember that there are less than 3 billion that this rose last year. And because this question was asked if there could be a conference in the field of mental science and a list should be made aware that this was done in 2015. Then another subject of social science was given. The logical support for this was also the case. I am told that I am expressed to increase the demonstrations and degree of scientific research in the arts of the fund. As for the Technical Development Fund, I know that there has been a focus for creative articles and design particularly, although it is in the field of industrial and innovation to answer that. I'd also like to mention that those who apply in this race run on the basis of quality and demand. There is nothing left behind in that regard. All the work there is very good and has, in fact, become the source of many good intentions. When asked about registrations, the current financial and financial programmes of the year set up goals related to the development of statistics and cultural data in the fields of art and culture, some information that was previously not collected in an organized way, will be presented in the soon - to - be presented in the financial program of 2018◯2022. Including to try to inform you of the quality of the service that citizens are applying to cultures. It is very interesting to read Dr. Ágúst Einarsson's words on these subjects, especially his book on cultural economics since 2012. He is the person who has written the most about these factors and is very interesting to study in this regard. A current policy on public finance for 2017-2021 shows that policy within the fields of cultural culture and a list of developing and equalizing opportunities for innovation within all arts through funds that provide funding for cultural and art projects so that innovation in cultures and arts can live under economic conditions and have the potential to reach the public. In fact, when asking about the increase in artist's monthly wages, it is possible to answer that there have been a number of ways other than increasing the monthly wage, e.g. by the fact that over the last two, three years, even more funds have been established than were available in various fields. In fact, they have become quite numerous to me and increase the likelihood that we do not have full perspective on how we support the work being done. I can see that I'm falling on time to answer the question. A senator and will then try in my second answer to the questions I still have.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u59	Madam President. Sounds like a speech to me at the highest. The minister of education wants to support and continue with the same condition. However, the magnitude of creative articles in the economy has increased dramatically, while technological advances open to more people who enjoy them and others have access to creation. While technology has increased the value of some creative articles, it has also reduced the value of others. So it is fundamental that the government of each era has a clear understanding of the state of these articles and the circumstances in which they live. Each decision must be made on which articles should be directly supported and which articles can be maintained by regulations and laws and on the streets and on how to deal with education in the context of these articles. In order for such support to go well, there must be a good rule around it, but it requires just a government that has a clear vision for the future, which I have missed for this government and the last one. It is not too much to believe that there is real support in creative articles. I can think of four things that could have a foundation: 1st To support what people want to do, not what the State and the government want people to do. 2. Working with technology every time, but not against it. 3. Taking into account reality and not trying to create a rule that looks good on paper, but it's not real. 4. To consider a wide variety of business plans and diversity in financing creative articles as an opportunity, not a threat. It has been shown that creative articles are of enormous importance to all modern communities. We need to take good care of creative articles if we are to have continued success in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u60	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for starting this important and pleasant subject, which is our view of the future for creative articles. There are many choices to make, but I'm going to spend my minutes, seconds left, in discussing only this question: Is there a basis for regular recording of information on part of the list and creative work? We are in a general place where loneliness prevails that creative articles are one of the main growths of innovation and an important growing industry in this country. As for the registration of information on the share of art and creative articles in this same business, I understand that we do not have new numbers to control but from 2010. Amazing, but true. V.E.G. The Minister of Education for Kristján Þór Júlíusson has now preached a better time, did it just now, and it's well. You see, it is necessary to do something here and then arrange that the contribution of art and culture and creative articles will be recorded and that the contribution of the article to the development of the economy will be recorded in a comparable way as for other jobs. This is essential in preparing these creative articles with a practical setting and a good work environment, to quote from the government covenant. Similarly, it is an important step in our efforts to be competitive with other countries in this growing industry. It becomes more and more important in the commercial creation of Icelandic science. I specifically mention cultural interaction and tourism but apart from our nature, cultural issues are a major reason for the arrival of tourists in the country. There is reason to mention that there is a recent international mapping of creative articles and that it would be a worthy project to establish Iceland as soon as possible on that map. It is likely that the administrative administration would also identify a good introduction to this work, but as is currently the situation, environmental issues are distributed in many departments without a coordinated management and overall policy there, which include: there is an understanding of artistic working environment. [[The president calls.]] Here we have an unlimited resource in so many ways. [[The president calls.]] We will support it, or as a government contract says, by permission of a president: The research and development and role of competitive funds will, in turn, be supported by research into creative articles. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u61	The president would like to remind the senators to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for starting discussions about future visions for creative articles. At the same time, I thank you very much. The Minister of Education and Culture for his input. Living articles are very important in our society and have been taught by the Icelandic nation. A creative thought has been one of the most important things that has characterized Icelandic society and has caused us quite well in this regard. It is necessary to keep these branches growing, while supporting their progress. I'd like to record a few factors that the research center will highlight, which I believe should be guided by work ahead. First, continue to study and to enhance the understanding of culture and creation in a practical sense. Second, to promote knowledge about the environment of culture, creation, and its role in creative articles. Third, to enhance knowledge of the role and scope of culture and creation in Icelandic society. The questions raised by the Prime Minister are all good and valid. I'd like to specifically mention one, but it's about whether or not to promote the regular registration of information on the part of a list and creative work programme. In fact, most of the people here have spoken up that point clearly, so I think there's something we need to do about it. When I was preparing this discussion, it was very difficult to get data. As mentioned, the data are actually from 2010. However, in order to establish effective environmental policies, of course, we need to have access to good data. I'm happy to see what the Minister's case said that there is going to be an increase in contributions to regularly documenting information on the parts of the arts and creative fields of employment. In addition, it is urgent to contribute to further progress of creative articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u63	A respectable president. The creating of articles of any kind is increasing in economic terms and their importance is increasing each year. In fact, it is said that 60% of young people will be working on things in the future that we do not know or that we cannot imagine what will happen. It is important, however, that measures other than economic graphs will be used for assessment of this class, which, according to the general economy. The Government Treaty specifically aims to support research and development and expand the role of competitive funds for research in creative fields. This also applies to the salary and to-dos fund. A search for ways to increase the availability of growth for innovation and creative companies into foreign markets and the need for foreign expertise. This ensures that the basis exists, e.g. in the countryside, with a greater variety of activities than traditional agriculture. It should also be emphasised on putting new knowledge into deep - seated industrial activity and more. More freedom and flexibility must exist in Icelandic political systems. They need to be receptive to creative thinking, and changes need to be a normal part of the public environment, as are other employment practices. In the bright future, there is a strong desire to build up cross-cutting sectors. As a result, the environment of an independent working artist needs to be improved, supporting studies that support the foundation of art and culture. A bright future also wishes that the government's donations for projects in this area will be distributed through a legal fund using professional intervention committees in which transparency and efficiency will be guided and that such funds will reflect the diversity of culture. The future is creative, but we need to create soil for it to take root.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u64	Madam President. I agree with what. Admiring that art in itself needs no justification except itself and life, of course, would be unbearable without it. Yet, creative articles have become among the basic worksheets of the nation. Today, this article employs 20 thousand people, similar to the number of people employed in agriculture and fishing roads combined and as many as in tourism. So I say for the third time in a pontta today, in the near future, artificial intelligence and self-importation will change the way we do business, and there will be the creative force and the initiative among the relics to which they will be seen. Therefore, if we are to promote creative articles, the key is to be effective in teaching children and young ones. In reality, we see the best part of this flourishing music in the country as to what sound laws and outsides have created. Unfortunately, Madam President, children's art program is not as well along. I just want to focus on that study. It's actually under the heel, like the highest. A minister said before, whether this law order, art lessons, is done. You see, not only is the art of self - importance but it is the basis for so many other valuable articles of sight. I mention architecture, clothing design, graphic design, video games, photography, filmmaking, and so forth. Art studies are so practical, and unlike many other subjects, such as music programs, it is very useful in group classes, at least is a primary study. So this is a very sensible investment, Madam President. Now a minister has the potential to respond to increasing interest in visual arts, acknowledge their growing role in the nation's economy, and really act with insight in the face of a challenging future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u65	Madam President. One of the noble poets said earlier today that intelligence was the only inexhaustible resource we should have. This is especially true of creative articles. But for us to use this resource, strong universities are essential to creative articles like others. It has to be said that the situation isn't bright enough for Iceland's Art University and it's never been. This school has been kind of an elbow child of the State, and it has never been fully funded. In recent years, we have seen pictures of grass, snorkel, and unscrupulous school housing that remind us of how long it is time to build a handsome mind over it, just as it is long time for the full - time ministry. It is a question of whether the irony of destiny will do so to the highest degree. A minister leaves the same situation with the Land Hospital in a handmade facility and is badly funded to solve the same problem for Iceland's National Institute of Art. I'd like to ask the minister if he'd taken note of these ideas now while the Ministry is developing a policy for the Scientific and Technical Council of the next year, which will probably be approved at some point this year, that this policy applies to art research, embraces the fundamental basis for which creative articles are based. It's just as important that these studies are part of the public policy framework for scientific and technical issues as any other subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u66	A respectable president. I'm very grateful for this discussion, as is the case with others. Senators have made it; it's important. I'd like to think of this as being a creative article and art as a red thread all over the world. The creative branches and creation are no greater than in the commercial world; the fishing industry is the greatest innovation. We need to consider what tools we have and how we can contribute to this healing environment, using what we have. Hv. A senator said that this needs to be introduced earlier. What presentations do we have to introduce creative articles? There, for example, we have an Iceland lab with which the government has it. Besides, we have this big organization, such as the commercial organization, which has a range of jobs, which we will use for all the groups, not always being making something new, but using what we have. Let's use it to expand research, expand analysis and registration on how much these aspects of industry and society provide, how much he needs to be able to achieve more results. I think a school such as the Art School should be much better connected to other university schools, which have a variety of fields, such as the University of Reykjavík and the University of Iceland, so that other members of the community start looking into creative articles and arts and researching what they are doing from their perspective. That's how I think we can lift it all together and we can use each other's powers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u67	Madam President. I'm gonna apologize in advance that I'm gonna talk a little fast because I'm in a lot of trouble and I'd like to put information into the way I've been going through the last few days. During the past few weeks, though, molds in the halls of LHÍ have been quite a part of the discussion where students have been ill in some cases caused by it. It is below all odds that young people who are good believers in learning the trade they may have. Excited interest in the lot, except that the study itself is more expensive than the same study in other schools, and the situation of factors such as a situation, access to technical equipment, etc., that the facility they are to learn their subject is in the power to weaken. These people get sick within the government educational agency because of the years they have had to endure. I would say that this abuse is directly involved in the fact that this seminar is being represented by the Ministry of Education, which has a slight impact on it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was talking about. It's always an elbow child under there. To highlight the reality of the students and professionals in this field, I would like to read from the Fríða Björk Ingvarsdóttir, the Drivers of Iceland's Art University, which she held during her graduation ceremony last summer: Despite the undisputed truth of the importance of artistic creation as well as the preservation and production of cultural legacys, it is under great pressure to land. Arts do not enjoy truth, not as creative science, not as educational fields and not as a profession or as a basis for innovation. Am I done with my time? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Education Minister: When are we going to fix the National Institute of Art? It is necessary to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for calling attention to this matter. In his mouth he thrust it. A senator from the administrations of creative articles said it was weak and disintegrated. It is true that these cases have been scattered over many cases, and at times the requirement has been made to unite the administrations of the creative branches of one Ministry. In many respects, this requirement is understandable, considering that either these cases have been lost in a much larger Ministry of Foregrounds or then, as previously said, they are scattered in many councils. Actually, I'm not sure this alone is a good idea. In countries where this has been done, the Ministry has often been somewhat weak and has not had much political value. I also suspect that this is not necessarily the focus of their case. After talking to artists, I suspect that I have my feelings, and of course artists have different opinions. What I think is a good investment in these matters is that we look in part like competitive funds, which I want to come to the second minute I'm going to talk about. A competition fund is that I know a very good way to invest and promote the creative articles in the broad sense. Because it is not only those who receive such competitive funds that do something but often the whole process is to apply for that competitive fund and start off with some idea that plantes the seeds that become something, even if the idea does not get stronger each time. This is a very important thing. I think it's good for us to keep that in mind about this aspect of putting money in there rather than in other places.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u69	V.E.G. President. I like more people to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for starting this discussion. The situation is: We are at the brink of a new industrial revolution. We know that commercial life will be different from what it is today, i.e. Attraction and artificial intelligence. Hence, we need to consider and make decisions as soon as possible about what role we will play. Are we going to be users of a new technology, or are we going to create it? Are we going to seek out companies who work in creative articles or not? That's the question, chief. Minister. By creating it, we make income for Iceland to the future, not only with income taxes because of the jobs that are created but also with income from the products we sell on international markets. New laws set up in the last year are valid, but they are limited where the tax - minded roof is too low. In Britain, e.g. there is nothing to blame for tax appeals to development projects in creative companies such as, for example, Marel and CCP, and some more of them. If we are to be competitive, we must use specific measures and support in which gang swings are difficult for Icelandic companies, we are far from markets, and it is often difficult to get qualified workers here. The legal environment today inhibits the growth of larger innovation companies, as mentioned earlier, and as an example of Marel and CCP, it will not be finished. That's what I want to ask the highest. Minister: Will he take advantage of a special analysis of the impact of using the British route in terms of tax appeal? It would be interesting to find the answer. It's my opinion that if we don't go that way, the row will be too heavy for a Icelandic innovation firm and they'll stay behind in a global competition. The treasure will then be of great wealth. We should view taxes as costs, not as an cost, but a way to increase our income to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u70	Madam President. I appreciate this helpful discussion today. She's been a meaningful, spirit-rich, creative one. We have powerful school directors in this country at all levels. They appreciate the currents and attitudes among young people, the field of interest, and the direction of their minds. Most school directors would like to have more flexibility in learning and in position and give as many as possible opportunities to enjoy their strengths and concerns, but the benefits have been limited in general, much less in later years. I remember that in my high school years, teaching was in construction, handwork, paint, drawing, and designed as a regular and important part of the study, just as exercise. Today, art and engineering seem to be some kind of leftover size, no matter what the main course of education, and the reason given is money and situationlessness. High school directors face the same problems, and they realize exactly the need for diversity for young people who have a different view of life than those of the previous generation. Their ambition is to cultivate the interest of the students, to promote and educate as many as possible, and to counteract evaporation, which is a special problem in Icelandic school. And it is a pleasure to converse with interested school directors and to perceive how well they read the environment. I think of West University in the middle of the United States, where there is a great interest in creative courses. One smelly is a sports track that attracts students from all over the country. Ideas also exist on an art track that supports rich music-school tradition in town and even an art painting. All of this would be good if they were to pursue the school courses and give a wide variety of skills for the growth and development of the students. Of course, the same is true of a number of other high schools. In these areas, we need to develop an education together in creative sectors that have actually become a major industry in Iceland. We're making progress, in the culture industry and creative industry, a creative thought is needed. In this council, a creative thought is needed. And the question is, Do we lack anything on it, are we ready?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u71	Madam President. Thank you for the wide variety of discussions. I think we'd all agree that if this house were just a gray box and nothing more would make us all feel so much worse, if we were all dressed in a plastic bag, we'd all feel a lot worse, if there were no music, no movies, no books, we'd all be much worse. None of these things exist unless every time the government has shown an interest in strengthening this foundation, whether through an art education and education in creative thinking or through contributions to cultural or competitive funds such as those made by artists. These grantings of the government are but a small part of the economic well-being but are the absolute basis, the absolute foundation, whether under economic activity or just to make our community a better place. I remind you, Madam President, society is first judged by the culture in which it exists. We have a great story, but it is important that we too have a big, bright future in that regard. That's why I say, I encourage the government to pursue here and watch that the arts, culture and creative articles are supposed to be a laboratory. It is difficult to assess, since it cannot be just based on future profits. We're supposed to have the courage to invest in this experiment and see what it can bring to us in social but also economic benefits. V.E.G. A minister here mentioned the Management Board in the fields of meditation and art. Perhaps it would be proper to have it done on the field of art. Of course, they are only laws that are subject to metabolism other than intellectuals that do not share the same law, I allow myself to say as supreme. Minister, who's from the same study as the one here. But most of all, I think it's important that we get a clear view of the future here. I'm running, and I'm sure that's what I'm doing. Councilmen also volunteer in conversation with the highest authority. A minister on how we can see the coming years develop so that we think about reaching out for these things rather than insurmountation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u72	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u73	A respectable president. I thank you for this wide variety of discussions. The verbalist put it so much fun. It also mentioned creative discussions. The nature of the matter is seen in many places. I allow myself to state that there is growth in these areas in most parts of society. It's just that way. We see this, in the production, in the work of this sector, has been a growing growth in recent years, and in many areas more than in other national areas. The reason is simple: There is a growing demand for creative articles. It generates a demand and calls for increased oers, etc. But it is true that we do not necessarily have the same understanding of what is involved in creative articles. We have not defined it specifically; we have not come that far in our discussion. Similarly, the statistics we support are very imperfect. There is a similar work waiting for us. I think it's both foundations that we have to make before we start moving more forward. I, on the other hand, rejoice as a boy. In this regard, an advisor declares that he is willing to go further, for in many areas we do well while others wait and have let down in some respects. It's true that we have the guts to invest in this suit. We're supposed to be afraid to take a chance, as they say. We're supposed to have the guts to take a chance. In some ways, I find that we are a little more aggressive about giving special young artists the opportunity to come up with more progressive ideas and to try them in some way. There may be reason to fix it and to invest more in that group. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you very much for this discussion and express my joy in all the plans that we are going to pursue further in these areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u74	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a commission from a budget board on the bill to the final budget for 2015. The objective of the bill is to consult the General's confirmation of government accounts by 2015. The final financial law makes up a decision on the provision of funds at the end of the year, i.e. whether the end of the year should drop or move to the next year. For the most part, the structure of the bill is traditional, consisting of two legal branches, as well as some translation articles. On the one hand, proposals for changes in budgets are made because of a lack of government income and, on the other, suggestions are made for subsidies at the end of the annual budget. The problem is with the bill there's two follow-up documents. The first is an overview of the change in budget for 2016 due to transport at the end of 2015. The second is an overview of the number base of the bill. The Law on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, last budget is not expected in the unchanged form. Instead, there is 58th grade. The Act says that there should be a bill issued at the General Parliament for confirmation of government accounts and that the report should address the results of the account and explain the deviations from the approval of the Generals. The bill we discuss is the second - last bill to the final budget law based on earlier financial laws, known as financier laws. A respectable president. I don't pop up from the Commission opinion the accompanying pills, but I'm here making a subject of two main points. First, in this bill, there is an unusually high level of recovery in the congregations of business halls. The bill does much by moving the results of the book or State account to prepare it for the environment of the new laws of public law. The proposals include the accumulated problems of institutions in situations where financial problems are thought to be greater than that it can be realistic that the institution can work on it as unchanged resources without expanding the Agency's service level, as the text says on the bill. It is a difficult matter when a management house is lifted in such a general way as to be suggested in the bill. Hv. The legal committee discussed it extensively and crossed these straddles that are presented here, and it was possible to investigate them. These drains and the final wastes of the final budget in 2015 are to be considered in the context of the budget being implemented in December. It is extremely unusual for a respectable president, as it was, that this was combined, the 2015 final budget, the 2016 budget, and then the 2017 budget. Thus, the end-of-finance proposal was made in 2015, which I explain in more detail in the following, but the Committee would like to highlight that at these dramatic declines, the committees naturally expect the budget of the institutions to be moved to the point where they can better deal with the new facilities and the new environment of the new law. It is necessary, therefore, that the Ministry of Economics and Economics should investigate in what way it is possible to reward the institutions where the management is almost always within the current budget, according to our committee. We're referring to a few cases of extreme degradation -- we forget again, but we don't deal with those agencies and those managers and the staff who keep state agencies and financial resources within the resources each time. Thus, we have directed to the Ministry of Economics to discuss specifically how, in the future, might meet the rulers of such organizations by action, which will be further motivated to achieve such results. Of course, there is another procedure to follow in the new laws we expect them to adopt and keep the Agency within its sources at any given time. The committee calls attention to the fact that there is a special decline in the business hall and should not set the example for the next year or later. As I have previously explained, the proposal for a new law on public finance and the purpose is to provide a more reliable basis for planning and better conditions to meet the demands of non-involved lawsuits in the implementation of budgets in the changing legal environment starting in 2017. The new law sharpens the responsibility of a secretary for the implementation of budgets and the use of reserves in this area is aimed at preventing any situation that may have to be taken out of the budget. So, with the reduction of the business halls, there is no way that the financial situation of all ethnic groups will continue to be balanced as far as possible. The Commission emphasizes that because of the collapse of the management halls, it must be ensured that the individual's expenses have been made available to the relevant person. Individual ministers are unequivocally responsible for this, and the committee will follow up on specific matters regarding the project as necessary. The Commission feels that there is a greater need to explain the position of the budget of some resources and will request explanation from the individual recruitments as well as the financial and economic services, as appropriate. It should be noted that some of the questions have already been answered. It's a legal committee. Just as I mentioned, a respectable president, the last budget 2015 was associated with the treatment of budget 2016 and the budget bill by 2017. There was an agreement to go further into the degradation of the health - care centres than was laid down in the bill. This is followed by the review of the Commission's proposals as follows: ▪ When the bill was being discussed at the General Assembly in December As a result, a panel of financiers made changes in order to cut down completely the slopes of the Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, the health care of the capital area, and the health centers in the country. The current committee offers suggestions, and in accordance with that decision, proposals for further degradation are made at 2 g. The bill. They increase by a total of 457.5 billion. K. at the Ministry of Health and disunited themselves in the following way. - It's an explanation of this dissociation in a printed committee list. It is noteworthy that Western Health Organization is not listed in the changes in health institutions and is simply because business has been in balance, so it is not possible to collapse. It is the only health institution that has been properly fired for years besides 2011 when the hook exceeded the scope of the congregation. In 2013, 2013 the current drift has reached its upper salinisation. A respectable president. There is special reason to call attention to this unique status of the Western Institutes of Health and to the high and successful effectiveness of the staff there. We are to note what is done well in the government business and in this large case, health care, which is so often discussed here and is sensitive in nature, this financial facility of the Western Health Organization gives us special attention. Especially is it because of what the financier's financial department, in its members, refers specifically to institutions that produce such results as good results, as far as it turns out. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted by the above - mentioned changes proposed in this Senate document. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnar's Friðriksson, and Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir's Þorsteinsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, Theodóra Hanna G. Hardydur's Harðardóttir, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, as well as the chairman of a financial committee and pilot, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for the speech. I can say every word in his speech and would actually come up here in a short talk to point to what is unusual about this bill for the final budget. Last law is in fact just to confirm a GPA, and rarely there is much argument or debate over the end-of-the-roll bill. We too are talking about 2015, and we have done most of that. What's unusual about this bill is the decay, and it's also fragile, such as the otter. In his talk, a senator, chairman of the legal committee, came in. The bill itself addresss problems in which it is clear that the hook is so great that if the person was to continue into the future, the needed service would be reduced to the point of no pleasure. Then there are the suggestions that the budget is united in turning toward health institutions. All of us know that the medical standards of the health system are very bad and need to be handled. Part of the chain used in the last budget, for the 2017 budget, was to examine how the real status of the institutions is, how they preceded 2015, and as before 2016 into 2017. The decision was to lower the angle of the clinics left in 2015 so that it would not need to be deducted and that it would not be affected by the services of the patients in the country. But there is something that is not to be done often or by a practitioner, and it will also not be so easy with a new way of handling public financial matters. This is a unique operation, and it is understandable that agencies that always stay within the budget have taken all kinds of action and pressure on staff, for example, will not be pleased to see that other institutions are getting their way downhill. That tail may have developed in various ways, and sometimes it is completely out of control. However, the only medical facility that is not in this room is the Western Institute of Health, which was within the budget in 2015. I agree with the words of an executive and the chairman of a financial committee when he says that those institutions need special attention and attention that their ambitions do not fall when they look at the death of a limp in other institutions. And here's a smile. For example, a member of the council of the Brjánsson of S..
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u76	A respectable president. This case is linked to the payment of budgets and final financial legislation, the approval of the General Assembly in December, where a financial committee was strict about shutting down certain holes in the budget for 2017, as the committee agreed on, the health system, the educational system, partnerships, and law enforcement. Everything was picked up to try to bridge the space and reach the goal we set for ourselves. What was difficult was to earn in order to finance these operations, mainly because the laws of the law themselves had gone quite ahead of budget. It was about 23 billion on the project and bill for financial purposes, and I recall that it was. Thus, there was little need for extra income to cover the gaps in health care, education, and transportation, but we have come to know in recent days that there was no added funds to specific medical services. It was zero. We even stood there. ............................................................................................... The same was true of Iceland's University. Despite approval of an unfundable transport program at that time, the General Assembly was not funded on the budget bill. So it was up to the Commission and the Generals to finance what was lacking in a transport plan, but that was not entirely achieved. It was simply close and hard to see where to look for money. When they were talking about where money could be found to bridge the gap, we searched for it. to the final budget we'll discuss here. Then came the rule, which was set on collections more than 10% of the budget or more than 50 million. K. would fall down to some extent. The rule came up, and it was explained in a way that actually replaced this reserve, which is stated in the official financial law. It was set up on a potential management ground where substitution could not take into account the problem involved, but it would be to enhance the responsibility of a minister to bridge a gap in a management plan when some accident occurred or mistake occurred or something unpredictable happened and with the reserves given to the seminaries. In order to begin with zeros, a general debt was provided. In my simple state, I suggested that we perhaps cancel the debts of the Land Hospital, but it violates the natural rule that was set, and I take responsibility just for having suggested it. It was being picked up all the way, and the committee added to taking into account all the medical institutions, except the well - fired health institutions of the Western country. As the committee's opinion shows, these declines are unique and are simply due to the changes in the government laws and the conditions under the General Assembly. It was just a business job after an election that became a major concern of health problems. I don't think that this situation will ever come back, that public financial law will help prevent such problems. This procedure is entirely unique under very special circumstances and should especially be noted that it was not my purpose as a committee nor did I understand it at any other committee that this should be a rule in the payment of the final budget in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u77	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The chairman of the financier, Haraldur's son Benediktsson, for setting sail for this project, thereby holding an agreement that was made on budgets here before Christmas. It's a question of whether he's taking his platoon brother, chief. Transport and Regional Ministers, course of agreements, but how it is respected, since it does not seem to be too much for them to agree with at the highest level. A minister who shows up by the wind. A senator is already entering a road program, which was part of the same agreement for Christmas. It comes as a shock to me that we are here discussing an additional charge of over 6 billion, or as a health care center of the capital area each year. These are expenses that are just to pay off an accumulated home in the government institutions. May it be said, in effect, that this is a way accepted that many if not all of these institutions have been run by persistent funding during the past few years. The largest part of this list is the nature of the case according to the Landsaholic. He is responsible for about half of the 6 billion. It knows each human child that since a long time before a collapse, the fingernails have been cut off, as in the medical system. It is not surprising, too, that much of these additional funds go into cutting up a collection of resources in international health institutions that have been overexploited for too long. The police directors, especially during the summer, have had to look at the pressures that have been under duplications because of the increased flow of tourists, who have not been fully added to budgets from year to year. Now the tail's behind us. And the same county office that had recently been united; because of this, the cost was at no greater than expected, and this was not due to fail until now. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson only entered the new system under official financial law will change the process we work in here. You have to hope that the most pessimistic predictions will not work in the process, that public financial law will not put the budget of each year in a straitjacket, maintenance policy, since we don't want to be in that situation after a few years that, just at the end of the year, one of the Agency will come down on second down because of its years of living uphill because the budget has not taken a reasonable account of the budget. I hope that as soon as we get these institutions out of the picture, we won't have to look back at the future, since it will only accumulate again, but the council here in the next few years will continue to reform institutions so that they will be able to do their part properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the interest in this case, that's very important. The laws on public financial matters specifically discuss the duties of the directors of the institutions and ministers to report to the Ministry immediately if there is a possibility of a compromise. They must be promptly informed of what advice a minister or president intends to take into account the difference between spending and financial resources. There should be much earlier action to straighten out than has been done, with no financial contributions and such. For this, ministers have a reserve. However, it is always important to determine whether or not the users of the institutions are practical. If so, we need to update information on the next financial plan and the budget. I think this section of government law can help. Of course, human error may occur, but the odds may decrease at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u79	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Yes, I hope this system believes that there will be a quick failure and surely we will see the crisis of the institutions. The problem remains to be seen how they react. We had the experience of creating a budget for Christmas, that the concept of income gains needed to stem the public account was greatly maligned, although they were all designed so that they would not land on ordinary people, but on those who have much to offer to cooperate. I fear that this spirit is too ruling in the laws on government finance, so if the head of the agency came to visit a local agency in the middle of a year and say that financial documents did not match any cost, the response would be required to demand him to adjust and take action. The shyness of the politicians in making money to support the community's joint costs can, in the course of the day, be dangerous to the status of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u80	A respectable president. After all, an institution has come to the Ministry and explained the plans for the staff of its presidents and ministers need to agree with the strategy. At some point, if there is to be a compromise, why they told us the truth and the right thing to do in the first place. Now that we have heard about it, we are faced with the fact that there are about 4 billion missing because of the cost of health care and medicine. A part of it may be because an approved budget was taken very quickly. We didn't have time to get all the premiums. The reasons given are that these are actually complex contracts that are not accurate enough in various ways, e.g. Avoiding open doors on public budget. There are certainly many places that we will remember, but this is definitely a step in the right direction. I think it's up to the Generals' investigation. There is more organization in what information the Council is able to provide what resources we agree with and how we can go after it is carried out. But this definitely is a work in progress, or work on the impossible, perhaps the human. But we try, but maybe we'll do better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u81	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that I'm hot. For the next few years, a senator will be united in observing how the budget is being carried out by new laws. This is a large and complicated induction, and it may only color our view of how much the induction was made when we agreed on our first budget under the new system here by Christmas. Everything was completely transparent. It would have been a challenge to see the executives of each institution. Similarly, it would have been almost impossible to compare real expenses with income and income. I hope that the Ministry will continue to fulfill the promise to bring good information on time so that the council can perform its financial function. If we don't get enough information on these matters, we're actually running very blind to the sea, which is a danger to the legislazoned legislatures and we should monitor the European Commission. That's what we need, numbers and information from the problems we've had before Christmas, but hopefully it'll work better before the next Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u82	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the violation of the Walm of Housewives, No. 53/1972, with subsequent changes. Transporters are the ones standing here, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and whatever. Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Sverrisdóttir Sverrrisdóttir and Tóttjörn Einarsson. This matter has been presented several times before and has not been passed; now, the last time, the 1st missionary to Konráðsdóttir Konásdodótttir, the highest. The President of the Generals. The bill is intended to eliminate the law on orlof housewives, but it is assumed on temporary regulations that a rural body can authorize a holiday committee to continue to work on January 1, 2018, as a trust fund in the institutions of the Committee. The matter of the 144th legislation led to a view that it was necessary for the holiday committee to continue working too narrow, as many committees have already planned holiday trips or started working in planning such trips. Therefore, the Holiday Committees are authorized to work on January 1, 2019, to allow them to adapt to their legal environment. If there is still money in the holiday committee's savings when she finishes work, it will go back to the local community that proposed it. However, on January 1, 2019, the law is expected to fail completely. They are expected to be paid to the holiday committees every 15 May. Right to Orlof's owns every woman who gives or has ruled a household without pay for that job. The laws were given at the time when most of the child - rearing work was carried out by women, and much of them only worked in homes without getting pay. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, and much has been achieved in an equal struggle and child rearing is now a common responsibility for both parents. Women are more active workers at a job market and make up more of the students at the university. In the homes where only one parent works outside the home, there is a far greater chance that the fathers will choose to care for children and live. It has been considered for a longer period of time to lower the orlof of housewives, including with the argument that time discrepancies were involved, as the law has been very controversial from an equal principle. These views have been heard from the head of the Worms Committee, which was at the turn of the century, predicting that the law would be canceled within ten years. So I think we're on a couple pretty close to predicting that lead. It is also important to remember that even the women working at home and in a general labour market are equally available. It is therefore the payment of holiday pay for a particular community group, i.e. women who are presiding over or presiding over, not men who are in the same position. As a result of changes in the work market and women's position, much of those who have accepted the housewives'breakfast of the past decade may have a legal right to holiday. On February 8, 2012, the Court of Equal Opportunities issued a decision in a case that disputed whether the Women's Association of Gold Coalition and Vote had violated the law on equal status and equal rights of women and men, No. 10/2008, when she refused to participate in the holiday journey of the housewives to Slovenia. The decision was made by the NTSB as a law no. 53/1972 were considered to be specific measures authorised by 2 mg. 24th par. Equal Rights, No. 10/2008, and therefore, the holiday committee would not violate that law by suspense. Then I'm going to review the privacy rights of the local society in this and part of the community. It's the communities that may have called what they call the most after. In 2008, a national and rural agreement was made, including one, in 2008. Emphasizes strongly that rural rights are respected and that legislation and regulations are in such a way that rural society has room to care for its tasks and activities in the light of local circumstances and attitudes. In recent years, a number of projects have been taken from state power to rural areas to promote the level of rural government and to make government and rural unions clearer and simpler. It has also been held as a view that rural communities are more capable than the State to evaluate the need for financial support for social projects. With law No. 61/1978 was the turn in which only the rural communities were required to pay for a 100 - in - a - half - year - old housewife's holiday. to every member of the community. This amount was adjusted for 2012 in 95.52k. on the population. However, it has been noted in reviews from the UN and the Women's Association and others before that it may not be time to do this immediately, since we are not at a place where we would like to be, and our goals are not fully met. The aim of rural areas to strengthen individuals to vacations is not at all to prevent this from being done on an equal basis in terms of social standards. Holiday Committees can continue to function despite the failure of the holiday housewives. Nothing can prevent such support from being also provided by housewives, thus implementing an expanded and uniform attitude. As a result of expediting laws on orof housewives, local communities will, in fact, give more time to prioritate funds so that they will be given to the work that the rural communities themselves consider to be the most important. My partner's situation varies. The duty the law puts on their shoulders is general. Thus, individual rural communities have not really had the freedom to consider whether high levels or little participation in the labour market is involved. At that time, communities have been even less able to take into account other circumstances of the housewives. Despite the fact that women's position is not yet equal to that of men considering pay and employment, a view of the work and the heart of women has not changed completely. Their potential may have increased at least as a result of that change of viewpoint. Because of this, it is becoming very difficult to justify the positive discrimination of the law. Similarly, it is difficult to justify the continuation of public funds according to the general law on orlof a housewives when their circumstances have so changed. Even has there been a question about the extent to which housewives are paid to women who are at home because of a poor holiday or pension right. In the difficult economic conditions that have existed in the last few years, where communities seek all ways to manipulate and make the tax dollars of their citizens as best they can, it is evident that they would be accepted to use part of the limited financial resources they have to discriminate the population on the basis of sex. Among other things, the European Commission has encouraged the removal of the law. The General Act was first set up in 1960 by the Walm of Housewives, and the current law is from 1972. The laws are set in the spirit that ruled them and are directed to the society of that time. Happily, things have changed for the better, many have been won in an equal struggle, and it can be seen that the law is in opposition to equality. Therefore, it is the order of the Generals to dispose of them at once. The social impact of housewives'vacation trips should not be minimized for women who have gone. If the law is taken away, the holiday committees can continue planning trips so that they can be chosen. The arrival of the rural society would be selective, and for the most important, the population would not be discriminated against on the basis of sex. So I suggest that this bill go to the proper management of the General and Education Committee and then be accepted here after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u83	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the story, but I must admit that I find this matter to be taken up on the women's international day of battle because it is the case that started to balance the sexes of the past when women truly leaned on me, both women who worked at home and thus worked unpaidly, as well as the few women who were working at a labour market who were able to earn a considerable amount of less pay for their jobs than men and thus earned a very small holiday privilege in comparison with men. In a way, these laws can be said to be a child of their time. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether this is not part of it because the children of that time are still alive, the women who lived under the circumstances that the community discriminated against them as fierce as it was 50 years ago, there are many women still alive today. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator - because this case is held for the fifth time, you would expect to have some information about it - whether he knows the number of people who make use of the holiday committees as well as their age. The feeling I have is that these are very often elderly women, whom I feel as a community, they spend 30 million a year giving them the little rights they were given in a housegull. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't have more accurate numbers, but I've got the information that there are still women of the time who use the holiday rights. But the most effective users are younger women who have this orb's rights and are as much right. Perhaps that is what has encouraged rural society to emphasize the failure of the law. As I said in my background, it's the main source of encouragement. I'd like to point out that our rural communities have every right to determine whether they have citizens in their society to hold this right. They then have the right to strengthen their women for vacation purposes. Thus, the possibility is not being blocked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u85	A respectable president. We are still spending 30 million a year for all of the rural areas. There are 2 million on average per rural society. Despite recent economic events, I doubt that it is a serious problem among members of the United States that it is hardly up to them. If the concern of local society is about how younger women make this use, which has been able to earn rights in a society that does not reflect so much discrimination as the society of which these laws breed from, would it not be much more likely to put some sort of sun code in the law, to assume that the law applies to women for a certain year so that we can follow the women who worked low wages for decades, who worked unpaid domestic work to keep society going for decades, their lives with these tiny rights? This is such a grossly small contribution from society to them. Perhaps we should be discussing how we could do more with them, how we could guarantee them more pensions for example. Because the social security system does not respond well to people who have not earned great rights. There's work to do. There you might spend more money, well over 30 million a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u86	A respectable president. I'd like to stress that we've been moving jobs to the countryside. They're in the close-up. They know how they serve best their community. It's the locals who are responsible for financing this. I trust my community and my fellow communities with the best intentions of making the women who are strong. A senator here correctly mentions, women who have already given much to the community, in a proper way, and what if these are such small amounts of money?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u87	Mr. President. Today, it is the international day of women's struggle worldwide. We fight this day and rejoice in the progress that has been made in the women's rights, progress that has been made in the less than 100 years since more than 15,000 women entered New York and shared in a march on March 8, 1908 to fight for sexual equality in all areas of human life. Today, in the United Nations, the challenge is to emphasize and call attention to the job market, to women's jobs, to sex markets, and to women's prospects for men. And on this international battle day for the improved rights of women, members of the Independence Party provide a bill that is designed to put down the rights of a distinct group of women, the rights of a female group who has earned most of their livelihood at home in unpaid domestic work and training of children, a female group that has not earned holiday rights. Even now, women are doing unsalaried secular work in homes and caring for family members to a greater extent than men. It claims organizations such as the National Institutes of Equal Opportunities and the National Association of Iceland as well as other institutions that have the gender in the community on their own. Also, in Iceland women are always more in the midst of those who live in so much poverty. This, in fact, testifies to that fact. A thorough investigation for the welfare department at the Ministry of Health, published in a report on very few things published last year. In this report, the statistics in whites show that between 2004 and 2015, more women than men were exposed to very few years in those years than in 2009. And the results of this report also show that very few are also very common among the older citizens of this country. Some are the most numerous, older women, and single mothers in this country. And what chance do these community groups have to take out orlof, pay them from their own pockets even, and have an opportunity for adequate vacations? Not many. These are poverty and income - related people, who, in addition, have not earned as much right to holiday service as other community workers. It is true that in this bill's report it is presented here that the purpose of the housewives of the house was to validate recognition of the social importance of unpaid jobs and granting holiday rights to the housewives, such as wage candidates. And it is also true that there have been significant changes in the direction of equality and equality between the sexes in recent years. Indeed, since the first session of the law and sex, there has been an increase in the number of women's activities in training children in order to form a maternity vacation for both parents. But who are the women who today take their housewives' breakfast? This is not stated in the bill's report, but it is stated in the review of the Justice Committee of the Housewives in Reykjavík, who sent a review to the same bill that has been delivered four times before. In this regard, the Holiday Committee of the Housewives of Reykjavík, of March 5, 2015, says by permission of the president: ▪ Women in society, especially older women and low - paying women of all ages, are the same. However, these are the groups that use orbs of housewives in Reykjavík. Various research shows that women do not enjoy equals in pay, especially low - paying women and older women, but these two groups have a long way of reaching equality in this regard. Most of the older women who enjoyed the Wombat were at home, not entitled to maternity or daily care for their children. Most of them are not entitled to pension payments, and many of them have been caring for sick husbands for years along with the fact that their right to retirement is not burdensome. And I'll continue, by permission of the President: ▪ These women have become socially isolated. [...] The holiday trips break the isolation of many of these women. These women have no financial resources or trust in their own trips. In addition, the holiday committee noted that women with low pensions and low pensions and low - pension insurance have the highest value of housewives. It's and it's. Although many people claim it, and perhaps rightly claim that housewives are a time error, it is still that the communities that use women who are housewives and older prostitutes, women who are microgamy, and women who have not earned jobs privileges, such as other community groups. Is it not, then, a total time error on the part of the executives of the bill not to attack the roots of the housewives'law? Is it not an error of time on the part of the leaders of the bill not to attack on the social ills of the Icelandic community that are involved in the payment of the sexes, the sex markets, the sex palaces, the sex palaces within the judicious system, and the breakdown of the charges within the judicial system that are subject to sexual violence, and, most certainly not, to measure more than that of the bills involved in the removal of sexual violence? So, instead of taking minor rights from older low - paying women, women who are desperate, and women who have not earned holiday rights, is not there a greater community responsibility, or responsibility, to correct the injustices that women still have in so many areas of society? I would also like to refer to the information given by the European Union of Iceland on the bill when it was submitted in 2015, which says that it is necessary before the Council decides to eliminate the rights of a certain group of members to investigate the impact of such an action for that group and that the number of that group is prior to making a decision. And this bill clearly does not reveal the size of a group of women who go to housewives. There is also no mention in this bill of which group of women this is. So, who's the bill for dematerial odorlfs? It could be that it's only for the sake of the local community as original, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, mentioned in his background address, which pays an entire hundred bucks. on whom do the inhabitants feed their housewives? I don't think it's unlikely, for the bill puts it that the money that will be saved by removing the rights of the housewives will slip into the pockets of the rural society, but not to make it easier for the poor children who can't afford the payable vacations, not for older, less payable women, to improve their quality of life, not for women who are desperate, but who run money right back into their sweat companies and are not available to do with it. Mr. President. Today, March 8, the International Battle Day of Women Worldwide It is inappropriate in the highest way that on that day there are members of the General Assembly who present a bill that includes removing rights to a distinct group of women, women who have certainly contributed to the community but who are not able to afford the luxury of vacationing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u88	A respectable president. As noted, March 8 is the international day of women's struggle. The purpose of a law on housewives's breakfast was at one time to validate recognition of the social importance of women's unsalaried jobs in a society that had a high regard for women. Today, in Iceland, we can stand a little bone in the back, boasting that there's an equality more than that in the world, but it sure isn't in 1960, it wasn't 1972, it wasn't really like when these laws were passed. These laws are inserted into the realities that we, sitting in this room and being most, seem to me, born after the implementation of these laws, can't even imagine. This is a reality in which, at the head of the council, one woman was sitting, not three until 1983. This is a reality in which the gender's pay differences were just accepted fact, nothing to fight, either the homeless housewives or the low - paying jobs that men didn't get. To that group, the Allied Council decided to reward. Half a century ago, the World Council decided to reward the group that was most said to be merely palaces in the community. The Synod decided to reward that group by allowing him to lift himself up. I've talked to women who in their time went to the High School of High School above the Who Building, some of them together, were just relaxing away from the wall of the city, in fact, had to bring the children with them, but it was probably holiday for that time. Couldn't baby-sit them. I don't regret money to help low - paying groups or groups of people who don't get paid to live decent lives, and part of them is allowing themselves to get up. I naturally agree with the idea that these laws are time errors. It's a dinosaur in the library, but it's a dinosaur that needs to remain in it because simply the group that uses this service, the group for which this service was prepared, is still there. How many of them we don't know, that's not in the case. Older women who have never had a high salary, perhaps never had any salary, living in poor pensions that they inherit from a dead person, for example. Are we going to take them off to the High School and only lock up in Varmite above Whos? I don't know. I think something needs to be replaced. I don't feel that we can lay down the law and leave those widows behind, leave them low-paying women without any substitute. I think that for every woman in need of housewives, the whole of the graffiti is substantially higher than the 30 million available to the rural communities, all of the rural areas of the country combined. 30 million a year. I think they're going to have less money than a drink for one of the only women who need this housewives' breakfast. If we start evaluating this bill from cost and profit, I think we - don't call it cost and profit, call it joy and unhappiness. Is the unhappyness of our rural society like that of 30 million years, so unhappy is it that we can stop the little joy that we can bestow on low - paying women in previous years by offering them to a housegull? It may be hard to put it into the exceinator, but I imagine it isn't. The number of people who take advantage of this is not available. It is not before our age, however, that carriers believe that housewives are obviously in opposition to equality. Well, if we were putting these laws today, yes, I guess, but these aren't laws that are set to deal with the reality of 2017. These are laws designed to cope with reality 40, 50 years ago, a reality that has not disappeared from life. This is a reality that many women still live in. In that case, we need to take this matter with caution because removing these little rights as women with little or no income is not a step in equality, even though we may think that there are some rules that apply only to women but not to men. It's just dealing with the reality that was, in the real world that was not. ASI comments on the matter at the last or last time when it was introduced to the council by permission of a president: Despite the change in time, however, research shows that the responsibility of women is still more important than men to care for children. There's something that we as a community today have to deal with. It is sometimes used as a rationalization of the secret sex that women are less valuable at work than men because they are always caring for homes and children, getting more pregnant than men; hence, they cannot be trusted as much as in a labour market. I would also have found it more interesting, since it is March 8th, that we were discussing the government's ideas on the subject of equally pay, or how to eliminate sexual pay, as mentioned here. There's an excellent section in the Government Declaration on that matter. You see, I think the bill of this sort, that the rights that transporters feel to be superior to men, is simply starting at the wrong end. I'll be the first to throw these laws across the ocean as soon as the government has eliminated gender pay. Then let's take a look. As soon as the social security system is made so that we can actually say that there is no shortage, that poverty is eliminated, let's take these laws and burn them. Then we have nothing to do with them. But we can really say while we're still alive, and for a few more years, women who kept society up for decades without getting paid or against the ignominious low wage, while these women are still with us, let's keep this dinosaur as a housewives' law, so let's keep them in force. If we want to take them off, let's do something else, let's bring something else to allow low-payers, people who have never made money, poor people, to make themselves happy. But while society is still a community where there is a gender difference in pay, where a labour market is as sexual as it really is, let's hold salt like this. Once the workforce has become a labour market without the pay of the sex, we can take care of it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u89	A respectable president. This is an amazing debate, perhaps not about large sums of money. I am now in a situation where I feel somewhat inclined to agree with all the speakers, and it's a real challenge to determine what to say. But I truly agree with what has been said that this law is, of course, a time error. Hv. A senator likened them to a dinosaur. We know dinosaurs meant for them to die out, and that's how I think this arrangement must be. On the other hand, I'm a little lazy when we think about it, and I do it in the spirit that I agree with everyone who has spoken, whether it would be wise to consider if we could somehow not make the law go away, but it takes time. It was mentioned earlier that there was no one here who was born for the sentence of the law, but I'm sure I have to admit that I will, but that doesn't change, because I think we should consider if we can put the sunset rules in such a song so that the women to whom this law was supposed to support and reward them can continue to enjoy it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I reiterate that I think we should consider whether we can try to draw some reasonable boundaries in the fact that women born for a certain year will enjoy this until it is gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u90	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson Steindór. I think this would be a possible advice, a sunset rule on the law that took into account when the social situation became good enough in terms of social security, employment participation, whatever it is that we would want to count as normal standards, at what time society had reached that place that this law had become a temporary error for women who grew up at that time and would adjust the sunset rules accordingly. I think that would be a good idea. I think putting off the law with a single marker, however, is a bad way to do it, so this senator's compromise is something I think we should look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm willing to do my part to look at this. There's a problem drawing this line, there can become a disagreement, but I'm saying there should be something to be found that would be reasonably fair and that any painter could enjoy. Of course, the resources available today are also available to adults, adult women, except for pension rights, different today. But in any case, I feel that it is worth considering carefully whether you can come up with an agreement on this subject and agree that at least I think I am. that we should pay good attention to it, and take a good look, especially because, of course, there is no reason or valid reason for it, that today is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u92	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend these answers much. I thank the senator for the deposit. Then I can think of some TV show that I saw. Since we're talking about sunset rules on women's rights, it was after the 19th - century slave war in the United States that widows in the war could continue to cash in with the United States of America. The last check of that sort was incorporated into me just about ten years ago, so dinosaurs sometimes die out for a long time. But it doesn't change that if we decide as a community to put our arms around a group at some point, we'll do it as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u93	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved with this discussion about women's housewives' breakfast on the international day of women's struggles. Of course, it's a little special, I don't say that the tourists have chosen specifically for that day, I don't think that's what they're saying. But it is somewhat symbolic that we should not be beyond the level of equality for pay, that we have not eliminated gender amounts, and that our work market is as sexual as it is today. In this day of battle, women are talking about all their jobs as women. It's just that way. All jobs are to be women's work. Just like all jobs, there's supposed to be men's work. There should be no distinction. Sadly, though, we have not reached an end in terms of gender equality. That is the reality. Of course, this case is quite reversed for today's situation. As an equalizer, I could here give a talk about, of course, men should also have the right to enter the orlof, those with a low income and thus live in a social setting, not to have the chance of going to the holiday like they'll have more material except by some support and organized trips, as offered on the part of the housewives's committees committees. On the other hand, I respect this long history, and I have a clear understanding that it was in my time. I think we need to show that background respect. This has been shown in the case of those who have been involved in this discussion that we could look at the matter in a solution and see to it that a sunset plan can be made with regard to a housegull. I could see it and would give it ten years if it were changing. Of course, these are not large sums of money that are underneath. That's 30 million. It's in itself, even if you're not supposed to say it here, just a joke that it's a joke that's putting so much emphasis on taking it off, unless it's for such a prince's sake. Economically, paying a hundred bucks is hardly the most burden on rural society. with each citizen of this fund. I'm quite familiar with this trip. They are far and wide throughout the country, and they bring great joy and happiness. It may not only be grown-up women who leave younger, too. But these women may not necessarily be able to take trips, out of home circumstances, and with low incomes. There are many things that can play into, they are widows, and maybe they don't have much chance of traveling with their family, all kinds of circumstances, and they like to be able to apply to such organized trips that I think I am everywhere feeling very good and think well. The amount of money used by organized workers has been very useful, as women are tamed, making very good use of each dollar, and using it a little bit. Of course, you might also want to make some adjustments in the rules surrounding these trips. This will take into account some balance of income and social conditions. The women who were wealthy or wealthy paid some greater price for such trips than those who receive their trips paid. It can be thought of in some way. But this does not change the fact that rural areas are still talking about paying the hundred bucks. ... ofthepeople of the orlofsfs. It doesn't change that. I don't think in this case as well as in some other cases, things aren't always black and white when we're not in a place where women stand as big as men in so many ways. We know that the level of pay is still high, that is, the situation of women in many areas, in which they live in very difficult social and economic situations, that is, poor women. Of course, this is true of the older generation of women who have slaved in homes for no pay or their contributions at all times. It may be the following generation that looks at their formalities and admires their industriousness, how they could do everything in the heavens and on the earth in their homes, and how the day could be sufficient for a number of children and all that they did but were never measured in society's financial accounts, this unpaid work that society has never calculated, and has not done today. Happily, women are strengthening themselves in all things. The fight continues. The authority of women is one thing that, of course, we need to put great emphasis on. But we should also respect and think of the women who have every right to get some community support in order to enjoy going to the orlof once a year, as these trips make it, that it is once a year, and that women give them the opportunity to apply for such a trip. Therefore, I would stress that this matter would be examined from the viewpoint that it is certainly a certain child of its time, but we are not at the point where we can deny that there are many women in Iceland who live under difficult circumstances, who do not have a lot of money between their hands, and who have taken care of long - term unpaid household chores far beyond men, and therefore have the full right to take advantage of their housewives too. Then see to it that the sun is set. I would believe that ten years could be fair in that subject. I think rural society will be able to pay off these funds until then, and should only be proud of it, and in some other way work on equality between the sexes, the same pay of society, working in its equal policy of equalizing the ideals of men and women. Once we're there, there'll be no such thing on the agenda that I think. But once again: Women around the world, happy in this international day of battle. We will continue to fight wherever we are in our community and will do so for our formalities and daughters and future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u94	A respectable president. I'm going to let a president begin by quoting a little text from my 80 - year - old grandmother I received last week, who has been a housewife for the most part of her life. They sound like this: -Hi. I agree to cancel a law on the worming of a housewives. Good-bye, Grandma. How are you? I wondered today if we would like to have laws that assume that women are only working at home with their children. It's interesting, at least, to fight for the fact that laws are still in effect on this great day, although carrying this bill was not a special intention of shipping on this day. I think we need to get out of this compartment ship. This is one of many steps in that direction. Of course, a lot of small things do one big thing. This is equal. Of course, those laws were to increase the value of housewives in their time, and during the 56 years that the law has been in effect, many have changed. It was normal for this group to be rewarded at that time, but today women outside the home work and have a right to a vacation. This is not in harmony with the values of our society today. It must be a requirement for those who fight for equality that all women and all call themselves at the same table in this and as anything else. So I think it's right to take the law of homewives and join those who think they're a loose cannon because I simply think that they give the wrong impression of the equality struggle, which is just so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u95	A respectable president. I agree with previous speakers that these laws are definitely time errors. On the other hand, in Pirata's basic policy, we stress the protection and the promotion of civil rights. We need to be very careful when taking rights from people. Today we were never going to make those laws. They would never exist. So it is only natural to take them away. But it is not normal to cancel rights. We must take into account that acquired rights such as these were valid at the time, but taking them off now is not to be taken off even if it seems natural to us under the present circumstances. Here, there were ideas of very normal sunset rules that from now on these laws would not apply, and rights would die out of nature. At least that would be a very reasonable way to deal with rights that are no longer relevant, if that were to be said, because we would not accept these laws today. It stands in opposition to society as it was and to society as it is. We have to consider society as it was, because it's still alive. It is as simple as that. Besides, I would still like to add it, as others have said, that it is very strange to make this case today. I don't feel so good about it, and I would have suggested that it had simply been transferred to another day. It's very strange that on the women's day of fighting, it's talking about taking away women's rights. But we're here, and we just wrestle, and we're sorry. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u96	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on farm income populations, No. 4/1995, with subsequent changes, resolve minimum response. Transporters with me, Will, Árnason, are a boy. Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir and Hildur Sverrisdóttir. The bill suggests the removal of provisions for the minimum response of a country partner. Similar primes have been submitted several times before they have not received their payment. Hv. paritaprevir Brá Unnur Consley's Konráðsdóttir had striven to contribute the last two matters. When rural income law was changed in 1993, there were new limits for maximum response as well as minimum response. The minimum response recommendation was controversial, including because it led to a significant increase in the response of some rural partners. The rural population has certain farms, e.g. e-mails, property taxes, service revenues. They use these businesses to perform their legal roles, such as operating elementary school, social services, etc. This bill does not suggest changes to the legal function of your community. However, the will of rural society does not reduce its response to lawgiver. In the 78th. The Constitution is confirmed by its own decision-making right, and it is decreed that the rural communities themselves control their affairs according to law. Therefore, strong evidence and significant interests need to come about if this right to the decision is to be taken. Direct intervention on minimal response would hardly qualify. The self - determination rights of rural society and their love for them have often been discussed in this discourse. I think we're going to join the locals in it. It is unusual that the law calls for a minimum tax of the population to be collected, whether it is needed to perform a legal function or not. A community must fulfill its legal role, but excessive interference by the legislature is unnecessary, detracting the authority and responsibility of the country's elected representatives in local governments to seek out as the most practical means of fulfilling their role. I realize that rural society is not in agreement with this because of the competitiveness that they think is a distraction between rural communities, there are the rural communities that have more income than others, and there are other factors to get an advantage in creating tax-paradise. Then I'd like to point out that the maximum response is about 14%, so what you can do here is the same amount that your rural society can set off with other incomes like real estate and other services, but the rural communities have so many opportunities to build a competitive position. There are so many factors in which people decide to live other than the answer, i.e. how you have been doing social service, school, sports, job opportunities, location, and many other things. If any of the community manages to run in a practical way, and that makes people move there, I think it's only positive for the locals, that there's someone moving there. These are often smaller rural areas that have the opportunity to reduce the answer. Let us not assume that people are going to sign up over there. Shall we begin to assume that people are beginning to break the law? I find something unusual when people always assume that others are breaking the law. Let us not do so. It has also been suggested that this delay of uniting partners. I'll totally agree that I'm in favor of a team member. But there are so many things besides this that can block it. You have to change the equation fund to do that, both in order for some community to go to a minimum response, on account of today's equationary law, you can't even make minimal response. Many of the farm members have complained about this. But also for unity. When rural society is united, it is not a force in the balance fund. There are so many things we can do at the General Assembly to help our communities unite, e.g. To change the balance fund, and to have various coincidences. You might be able to discuss it in this. Do we want to have minimal answers for a particular size of rural society? All of this can be discussed with you. I realize that the balance fund needs to be watched and done many other things to encourage rural society to unite. I think we should do it before we both begin to cut down our communities to join us or thank them for not being united. There's also another thing I'd like to point out about the unitedness of rural society, which is transport and communication. We've been discussing it in these last days. Many rural communities have been promised to make transportation if they are united. They have been united, but the improvements have not been received. I think it's an aspect that we need to look at, to go in real transport to encourage rural society to unite and change the equations and loan rules and other things, we can continue with that. But here we are talking about a minimal response that strengthens the autonomy of the local community, encourages them to run their rural society in a practical and reasonable way, and is not to be a General, which is to be involved in what taxes they place on their subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u97	A respectable president. I think it's best if we hit it first, so many people have to answer. I have to admit, I scratched my head just over what was presented. A senator said that it might be possible that a minimum response might be valid just for a certain size of rural society. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress on how it goes in agreement with the great liberation zone on behalf of the local community that it is simply up to the level of legal law to have a legal answer for them. What makes it into that ideologies for why? The senator hooking up the size of a country partner? Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator in this sentence in the report, with permission of the president: It is not natural to legalize a certain tax of the population, whether it is needed to perform a legal function or not. Counts 'em out. A senator is generally referring to a tax system, and why is there only a minimum answer? [[The president calls.]] Wants to play. A senator also cancels the answer peak?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a few questions in a short time. The minimum size doesn't change the prince's finger. I'd prefer the bill to go through unchanged. But there I am merely thinking of ways to meet different viewpoints. And another thing that I talked about in my speech, we need to create some incentive for our rural society to unite. I don't want to go all the way and I want them to join me. But is there anything we can do here, whether to help them or to encourage unity? That's different. In terms of the climax, it's only much harder to replace it from the constitution. For all taxes shall be made by law, and we may set a law on how to deal with them. So we can't give our communities, according to a constitution, permission to raise taxes without a legal agreement at the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to point my tail. A senator says he's here to suggest a change of law. If one of the other members wants to raise their taxes above the level currently valid, then it will. A senator agree to the freedom of the community's choice and only to fight for it by changing the law. If he is complete in his position to set some boundaries, that would be valid with both the upper limit and the lower. I listened attentively to a question. A senator and I have to admit that when you are talking about alcohol at the grocery store, I felt that it was a way of identifying a particular combination of subjects and other matters that involved alleged freedoms. It seems that the receptor is not as expensive to the freedoms foretold here. Has a what? A senator read through the locals'reviews of this in earlier stages? [[The president calls.]] And finally: How would this change become a law, an equation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u100	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate with the climax: it has to put the maximum tax limit on your local society by law. This is done by setting a number as a maximum response. It is also possible to establish laws for every area of rural society that they have to make use of to that extent. They are not authorized to get away with it. That authority cannot be given to our societies in accordance with the Constitution. That's what I'm pointing at. But we can legally change that they have increased their freedom to be within their bounds. That's what this bill is about. I came into it in my speech that I knew that not all of my rural society was as excited and that these are different. Then I have wondered that when it's convenient for them, they call for their own self - control, but sometimes they don't really want him to come to them. There's a little discrepancy in their language there. And as long as not everyone is as excited about freedom at the time, sometimes it is just a matter of making difficult decisions and making decisions to make progress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u101	Mr. President. I think everyone is all right about freedom, and I agree with that. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said that perhaps a group should be encouraged to join him. I would have even preferred to see the bill of that subject. But in view of this bill, I think I know there are 56 members of the country that have a maximum answer and one more than that, i.e. Smokeytown, 15.05%. However, when I was preparing for this matter, I didn't really want to see what really matters in this case, how many societies have minimal response and who are exactly. Watch your step. A senator might have informed me of that? And why this is so important to them, because if 56 have a maximum response, there aren't too many left. I'd like to know how they stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u102	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There are three societies, that I believe, now, that use the minimum response. When the law was given, several societies had to raise their response to the law. I don't remember all the societies, but it's a Grimnes and Graffiti. These are rural organizations that have activated structures and enjoy high real estate bills from station houses and any of the stuff that uses it. And they're small.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u103	Mr. President. It would be interesting to know a little more about the financial situation of these three rural partners. Are these communities who owe a lot of money? Do they provide high or low service levels compared to rural areas in their neighborhood? Is it because of the low service stage that people generally attend? Now I know there are also a few societies that aren't exactly a minimum, but they're pretty close. Some of these have been kind enough to show people outside the local community in search of a service. It would be nice to hear only about how a senator views it when people attend public service in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u104	A respectable president. They are all small rural communities, who have high financial standards and are relatively low in debt. In fact, because of the rules set here at the General Assembly, they are not allowed to render service at home in all cases, to be, and to cooperate with other rural communities with it, resulting in the services of the local servants of the local community. They are not the only small societies that are like that, and there are many other societies in which they live whether they fully use the answer or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u105	V.E.G. President. I'm thinking about this bill, and I really think it brings up more questions in my mind than I get answered. That's why I'm going to try to ask him why. That is the case with a senator and a representative of this bill, Vilhjálmur Árnason. I'm curious to know or to try to understand better how the interaction between having a legal role, having to perform various services, and then just being able to charge it without a response is consistent with increasing demands, e.g. which we're going to set and have put here about the rights of disabled people, how. A senator simply sees it as possible to go together. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, we have all agreed that changes toward better human rights and at the rate of the 21st century cost money, and someone will eventually have to go beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u106	A respectable president. This isn't the only company income. They are varied. Farmers can make it much more practical for their citizens to live in the countryside by having sworn down the cost of services, real estate costs, and other rural income. This makes a new way in this regard, but it does not create any new circumstances. The legal role of the local community is not going anywhere. They'll still be there. If real estate fees or other services pay a great deal of money that they don't need the answer, we don't want the locals to charge so loud if they don't have to do it even if they do meet their legal services.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. But it's still complicated in my mind. I think it's important that we do. The Senate committee that gets this case will do well with it and see if it can be viewed as an equal figure in any other way. Is it possible to say that the inhabitants of our rural society sit at the same table? But okay. Hv. At least a senator answered my question. But there is something else I would like to ask about. It is whether he believes that rural communities that do not collect an answer, however, are able to obtain income through rural funds, whether they can be free when it comes to this type of tax, while they can get money that is also collected but with other taxes and through other systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u108	A respectable president. The panther fund is to balance the income of the rural society with funds from the government fund. The population of these rural communities has just as much right in that money as they do in other rural areas. It will only take the discussion based on the role of an equation fund and its objectives. There's a lot of things inside. This may well have some effect on it, but it should not be completely excluded from the equation fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u109	A respectable president. It's nice to be a fourth in line. Then most of the questions have been asked. However, we often discuss the income of our rural society and how it is not enough. In view of the legal nature of the community, I don't see how we can go in this direction because you often hear stories about someone who might have an accident and who lives in such circumstances that he needs a service because of disability or otherwise, it is simply advisable to move. If a community has a minimum or less response and gives such a message or is involved in such labors or something like them, I don't understand how we can justify that our community escapes its legal obligations if it doesn't collect an answer or charge it otherwise could. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u110	A respectable president. This discussion of the transfer of members of the community that need social assistance has long existed, and it has been difficult to confirm the facts, whichever they may be. But I'm not going to rule out that some of them can be supported. But there, we could also come into the equation fund, with just one thing like that, and it's even taken into account today, that's where the equation is. The way the rural population should be paid off depends on how much such a role they need to play. It allows him to enter with his rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u111	A respectable president. If the country club does not collect maximum response or otherwise charge, can it get an exchange from an equation fund? Otherwise, it may provide extra revenues for construction or other bodies. How does this apply to the minimal levels of other species, such as Real estate bills? The local community is, for example, a member of the community. to a maximum in real estate, but would like to lower the income share costs. Why should the floor be removed from the techne suspension when there are other ways to reduce the population-based spells, e.g. with less real estate tax? [[The president calls.]] Of course, people pay property taxes from their houses too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u112	A respectable president. It can vary considerably between rural areas, with high or low real estate costs, depending on the sector and the type of work they are, and how they plan to build up or to want to build up on their own land and so on. Farmers need to have space between systems according to their community's composition and their geographic situation. That's why they have to have this space. As it is this day: The person who makes use of the minimal answer today will not get out of the balance fund. It gets really fast the way it is today. What I'm talking about is that there's got to be room for the locals to run in the most practical and sensible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u113	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in a little discussion about delinquency on a minimum answer. After observing the discussion, I feel that this case is tailored to the communities that are rich, that have companies that give a lot of results, such as fortresses or big companies that pay large amounts of money to the local community. The rural society itself may not offer its inhabitants the services that other rural communities have to do, and they may attend various services outside the rural community. It discussed that it would take the freedom of the community to reduce the minimum response today or to have the chance to do so. Then you ask yourself: " If my community is so hairy and so thick that they don't have to use the minimum response today, why, on the other hand, they don't offer even better and less expensive services at the level of service there and then lower them, e.g. Real estate costs and other legislatures, and they have room to move on? Why do we need to open this and break up the minimum response? Of course, as it is today, most societies are in poor financial condition, many of them are very poor, and they earn nothing of all their income. Many of them have very little money to play. I'm not gonna name any names, but a community of some 1,200 people in my district may have about 30 million. K. to do and do something. All other incomes are tied up in advance, and nothing can be moved. I think if you open that price, forgive the language, goddamn it. This will only add to the discrepancies between partners and from population to population. I'm just going to quote some reviews on the same subject from 2014 to the National Council of Isafjörður, by permission of the President. The town council gives a review of this subject, so it could be quite different. But I think it's okay to quote from 2014, because I like it. This is part of it. By permission of the President, this is from the 2014 Council of the City of Isafjörg: ▪ The Council of Isafjörður Bjords strongly opposes the removal of provisions for a country's minimum response. Such an operation would encourage local situation and interracial competition. At the same time, there would be a danger of growing inequities in society, where some rural societies could offer an expansive response that would be far more impossible to offer. Then there is likely to be an error that would develop between where people live and where they accept their services. It's a little big. We know a certain community that has seemed to move against certain groups in its locality, pointing them to another form of service. Some rural communities, such as here in the capital area - Reykjavík, have a very heavy level of service. I think it's a dangerous development if some rural communities can push citizens into a particular service where they are available but do not offer similar services themselves, thus reducing financial expenses that are involved, for example. Social issues. The rationalization for minimum response is that all citizens of the country who pay their taxes to pay off their income pay minimum per cent of the total price of the consumption and community service that rural society gives to citizens. The evidence is just as valid today as it was in 1995 when income-infested partners were approved. The discussion showed that 56 rural communities have maximum response. Then I also find it interesting to know what the rural communities today are getting from an equation fund. Of course, the treasure for congregations is very important. Some rural communities are in a bad position when they receive a large portion of their income through an equation fund. If this bill is approved, should local societies that feel they can reduce the answer from what the minimum response today is to obtain something from an equation fund above the head? I don't think it should be. Then you'd be turning things all upside down. Legal duties are heavy. The requirements are naturally to increase with changing society and increasing demand for human rights and increased social services for the population of the rural community. Some rural communities have not been able to meet the level of service they should meet today. That's why I think it's like opening the pandobox, the good thing to open it. I believe that by then there are peace breakers in this business, and there will be some kind of gold mine, command, and competition for people. This could cause some rural communities to fail if they were to compete with wealthy rural communities, who have high income, or perhaps large companies and inducers, and who offer lower answers to keep their own citizens. I think at the end of the day it would lead to quite a misunderstanding. The rural population today who are struggling to maintain a service stage would still be less able to provide them with services as normal and constantly increasing demands today, whether as social services or even a better elementary school or as a matter of nose, housing, and other facilities, as well as services to elderly and desperate rural society and strong nursery schools. Let's talk about kindergarten. The rural population who are reaching for minimum response cannot e.g. So you're offering a lower degree, so we're gonna call it something? I don't think we should look at the few rich farm members in this country today. Whether to establish a minimum of the population in rural areas together is always a topic for discussion. I've always talked about working together on a free basis, not by law. But I feel that this case is totally out of proportion with everything we senators hear from the local countryside. It will be interesting to see how the comments on this subject are made, whether your local partner's attitude has changed, whether they feel that there is evidence to eliminate minimal response. I don't think so. This would not lead to the strengthening of rural services.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u114	A respectable president. I have a quick question for what? A senator who talked about rich rural communities and described that if they were to reduce their taxes, the hell would be free. That's where we disagree, that the tax dropped means hell's free. But I wonder what. A senator feels that if rural society has other incomes and does not have to tax its population as much as other rural groups without compromising legal services, is it not likely to allow its inhabitants to enjoy it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u115	Mr. President. Of course, we're one community. We know that the legal obligation of a community is great, and it costs money. Should we just look at individual farm members who are wealthy because they live under special circumstances, have large activations, or big corporations within their boundaries? Why don't we just look at it and open up a competitive community environment about minimum response? Over the years, rural society has agreed that it needs a roof, this floor of income. They just don't need any of it. It's always dangerous when you start breaking it up. I believe that rural communities, who somehow have to get their money out to the population again and have an overcrowded fund, have nothing to do with paying minimal answers, can do so in another way. They may be able to place more money in the holiday fund of housewives, e.g. And strengthen other rural areas that are poorer than those substances. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I'm that much equal in me that I don't think it's a concern when rural society has trouble spending money. They must somehow be able to make money available to their inhabitants with a decrease in other incomes that are present in the local community. There are other fees that the inhabitants of rural society pay and can then be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u116	A respectable president. That's where we're at. Rafney Don't consider it a concern that some societies have a lot between their hands that they shouldn't lower their taxes on their population. Besides, I don't think it's dangerous to allow this level of local competition. I think it's good. I think a lot of societies have to think their way around, for example. The practicality of large rural areas and the practicality of large rural areas. For good reason, there may be population growth in Kópavogi, but not in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-08-41.u117	Mr. President. Yeah, me and what. Surely, a senator would not agree on this matter, at one end of the Polish, so it might be a little strange if we were united there, even though we certainly have something in common about matters that pertain to national affairs. I don't think that rural society should build up in such a way that some community in the country will become a tax place. I don't think it's anything to aim for, or it's to be promoted. Legal duties are high in rural areas. Of course, there is a tendency that large areas of society often have the largest expenses and the largest amount of service, but this requires money. Hence, more often than not, they need to make full use of their income stocks. But there is certainly room between minimum and maximum response. Smokeytown was authorized to rise beyond the maximum answer. Well, maybe that's not a good thing. There, the financial administration of independents ran out of control. It may not be exemplary in the way that that rural society was run, it sold out all the property and milking until it stood firm and penniless and had no time to pay taxes to the population even more. This is often what liberals and independents want to do, to make a nation count on the loss, and then to take the money when it becomes. But when it becomes a loss, it is to be used by people and to take advantage of it. That is not what my political nose says should do.
