ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u1	President wants to report what. Councilmen that this morning he has sent the president of the British Council's lower branch, John Bercow, sympathy for the terrible terrorism that took place in Manchester last night.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u2	Borist's letter has been sent by the vice president of the House Congress on 2nd. Witchest. "Grans Bragi Sveinsson, be absent in the near future. Today, then, at General 1st, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Sigurður Páll Jónsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u3	Madam President. I want to thank the President for having responded quickly and sent sympathy letters on behalf of the council for the terrible events that took place in Manchester last night. A disgusting attack directed against innocent people, children, and young people. We do things as little as we do at this moment but condemn such evil and witnesses to show compassion for victims of their victims and to accompany our British friends now as always in their struggle to ensure safety and peace in their own country and in our part of the world. It was my intention to discuss some of the activities of the council. But I'm only now saying that the National Security Council came together for the first time yesterday. The General had previously met with a widely established national security policy in Iceland, with a general view of safety issues and the many challenges we face. Iceland and I are a very lucky people, a peaceful, secure, and stable people. Sadly, though, as many of our friends in our part of the world have experienced self - testing, that situation is not self - assured. That is a point that we generals must always keep in mind about our business and when we discuss our foreign policy and the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u4	Madam President. I agree with that, and I'm going to see the entire body of Congress, and we're sending our sympathy greetings to the British and to the members of the people who have been hit by this terrible attack. I was going to discuss here the subject of Home Management School at Hallorm's place and the sad story we're witnessing today, where the Minister of Education and Culture has decided not to extend any agreement with the school. School has been working since 1930. At the same time as the school's activities are being laid down, the promise of building a cultural building is also to be betrayed, but the former minister of the Independence Party, Illugi Gunnarsson, flew east at Egls' conventions and signed a declaration that promised money next year in its construction. What's culture if it's not a master school, including? There have been a number of ideas in the Ministry to increase student attendance and change courses of education to attract students, but this has not been given much sound in the Ministry of Education and Culture, since it has not fallen under the formal traditional bookwork. At the same time, we would like to talk about the need for further training. The school representatives have offered some suggestions for study, including for those who are considering further study of food - related articles or construction, those who want to prepare for a school of tailor - cutting or textile design, since it has a special opportunity for today. Students have also received a basis for this development under further cooking studies, tourism, kitchen cleaning skills, and production skills, which we know are needed today. Here is where this teaching can be accomplished, where there is knowledge. However, a minister has chosen not to take advantage of this knowledge by extending the contract. [[The president calls.]] That's very sorry, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the words of those who have been standing here in the symposium on sympathy for the British because of this horrible attack in Manchester last night. I'm here to speak up for the council's work, and I'm never going to discuss the job of the council at all. Today, few conference days remain, and the wheels are turning, to the point of a deeper date. Now is the time to make every effort to come through as many as possible. Because of the 48rd chapter, many cases will not be removed and will not be handled properly during this council. Conventional legislation is an evil flaw that prevents the possibility of a judicial case, e.g. From this spring now until the fall. Twenty-seven cases await 1st. This morning's General Assembly, 58 committees, 12 cases await 2 Peter 3: 1. Um., four cases have been mentioned after the 2nd. And seven cases await the 3rd. It is clear that only a fraction of these matters, as in all other councils, will be successful and will be properly discussed and provided here at the Senate Hall. It is shocking, and in effect, it prevents the Council from fulfilling its own surveillance role, that the Council take the initiative in matters. It's very pathetic. We speak here over and over and over again. We take them on committees over and over again. Let's get the same reviews over and over and over. Little wonder that the public has little confidence and confidence in the ways of the Generals at such times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u6	V.E.G. President. When nature protection comes along, everyone agrees that respect and conduct are held in high esteem. All right. Nature is to be enjoyed by the commonly heard doubt. By the time I gave my virgin talk here at the General Assembly on the autumn days of 2013, a year earlier, a great deal of herring had been on the shores of the Kolgraffjord, so much so. My discussion was about what history was saying to us, but there are sources back to the early part of the last century about such silebrating at relatively regular intervals, and how the winter was dealt with in 2011◯2012. One of the things that were attacked and costing large amounts of money was to grow the herb or part of it in seawater pits. Last year the results of the study of life in the market of this event were published. It said that the environment was back to normal unless there was considerable exposure to grass from these pits where the powder was taken. In this case nature takes care of itself and it is not always good to intervene. The human pollution remaining in Kolgraffjord is man-made. There are many islands on the British side, and many of them had lived through the years. Living in peace and content with what nature gave. The islands were, in effect, comfortable living together. Today most islands are now desolate. In the unattainable islands, things are not good. A great wind, a sea, and other weeds as well as the trunks and rivers of the sea. Some islands are protected and tell those who know they are badly gone. Some vacation farmers are dropping money into an island, and the weeds and islands will be gone again. Man's association with nature with use and respect and knowledge is what makes life worthwhile. Aggressive acts are something that nature is better able to handle than we humans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to read some of the lyrics read to us senators at the council party the other day. That text was very interesting, I think, for our work as members of Congress. This text was written in the 17th century, or 1631, by the secretary of the Generals, and it is the oldest of allegorical sources. He reads: ▪ I promise and confess that in these matters that will be judged, whether they be afraid of life, whether good or bad, I will write the rights as here will be judged; and in no way be counted worthy, may, duty, profit, or gifts, hatred, envy or hostility, but at all alone have the god and justice before me, and I will write righteous apples for what will be judged, or at all, what I must write, so well for the poor one as the rich, the noble as the common, so well for the ogressive. I would also like to have written since it is legally or officially taken up, neither for myself nor for anyone else, scourgings, gold, silver, money, or money, so that no man may lose his rights because of my writing. I've been aware of my work at this spring council that interest ties are much of the work being done here at the council. I believe that members of Congress should better inform themselves about their interests and take away the matters in which they even play a surveillance role against their own actions. I've mentioned this before, for example. Regarding members of the council who serve on committees or institutions or who perform jobs that include dispensing the Senate funds and then having to answer for their financial resources. I believe the General needs to discuss this in a frank manner. [[The president calls.]] Let us have special assistance in the work of the council, where we openly talk about how we feel it is proper to treat a conflict of interest here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to start by using the sad and sympathetic words of many woes. Senators here have been standing before me for the tragic reports of Britain. It teaches us that violence is never the solution, that we should meet people with love rather than hatred. I came up here to discuss only food prices. The occasion is particularly important, as may not have been overlooked by many, that a foreign store chain has recently begun its business here, that many food prices have been discussed. I am not one of those who are going to have a lot of opinion about which stores are opening or those who go to them shops or those who have opinions about those shops, as it seems to be foreign today on social media. But I think this is an occasion to wonder about a store in Iceland when it comes to consumers, the situation when it comes to food prices. Last year's farm paper listed numbers from the Contestant Board an overview of the average quality of the daily products, how they are from countries. In the United States it is over 10%, in Europe it is about 13%, but in Iceland it is 35%. There's something that explains why there's such a huge difference between the average daylines here and anywhere else. I think we, as members of Congress, would have to settle over these matters and, in fact, the whole nation. This system is not quite okay. Instead of wondering what Lens capitalists are that exploit us with high prices, perhaps we should address the root cause of the problem, which is high prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u9	A respectable president. In these days, when tragic attacks have taken place in the next neighboring state, you feel that everything you say is inappropriate, insensitive, ridiculous. My mind is with the British nation, the victims of the attacks, and their families. We are reminded how lucky we are here in Iceland living with as much security as we do. We are lucky to live in one of the world's most peaceful kingdoms, as well as the news that we live in the world's second best health systems. What a privilege. What a cause for joy and encouragement to do more! We're supposed to lead. Iceland is to be leading around the world when it comes to well - being, health, equality, human rights, and education, and, of course, being liberal. We are to continue our progress. The Western world needs to think that the Western, liberal nations will show and prove their success as such, as liberals, show and prove that liberal attitudes are a forward attitude, that liberal attitudes create a basis for balance, that liberal attitudes promote well - being, contribute to equality, respect for human rights, and increase the happiness of the people of the land. We politicians are required to speak for needed progress and should have the courage to change, to make the jump forward, and thus also to think of the solutions to the modern - day Conder that attacks us. We are supposed to be ready to take some new steps to cope with the problem, and I believe it is of utmost importance that we receive practical suggestions from the committee that is now making suggestions on how we can deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u10	A respectable president. It's time to improve the status of a child in Iceland. Time is quality. Looking to other northern countries, it is shocking to see the pressures of Icelandic parents. Research suggests that Icelandic parents do more than parents in other parts of the North and often experience stress. This problem is also seen in the social skills of children and other aspects of parenting. It is very common for children to have a full - time job to support their home. Parents also need to care for family training, household chores, spend time with their children, physical examination, and other activities. We have long wondered why there is great anxiety among young people in Iceland, difficulty in studying, poor mental well - being, and other mental health issues. Probably, though I am not an expert on these matters, many of these can be connected to the parents'hours of work, sometimes that we could use to strengthen our children, our future financial resources. If we're going to improve the future of our children, reduce our daily care and increase quality time, we're going to have to trace the labour market in Iceland where overtime and overtime are overrated. I don't think I'm putting myself in with any children's population when I say that no parent chooses to spend much of a day at work. All parents would be willing to come home early and have some strength for their children. Children need association with their parents, and parents need to have time for training. Now in 2017, we are to take the step that has been discussed for decades at the General Assembly to shorten Iceland's week of work. The Women's Art issued a judicial arrangement on the subject in 1993, but the first suggestions in these materials were presented in the Council of 1987. We should not be afraid to see how countries that have reduced the workweek have been able to build a good environment so that children can grow up and thrive in the arms of their families, not in the race.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u11	V.E.G. President. At first, I'd like to say something. The members of my council and the highest. President to join the British with sympathy. ON THE news of the dawn, we talked to young mothers in the Patreksaraut. One of them is our deputy senator, Lilja Sigurðardóttir. They discussed the situation that exists. in the southern part of the West serving as prospective mothers and their families There is an extremely reduced delivery service. Future mothers, together with marriage mates, and even whole families, must leave home before a child is due for the world. Some years ago, food services in southern Westland and elsewhere in the country were reduced without any substitute. Like what? Congress officials know the priority of our candidates during this session that a health program for Iceland was being developed and defined as the field service to be performed in many parts of the country. Under these circumstances, there is a difference between the two groups. birth service. This proposal has been taken care of. The welfare committee and the rest. the matter has been taken care of. There is now a vote. I encourage a vote on the matter to take place as soon as possible to achieve this important policy. In this brief speech, I also want to mention our convention case with the candidates, the bill of a change in the law of birth and parentorof, intended to meet parents who have to stay away from home while waiting for a baby. The primary objective of the bill is that a birthal storm may be extended for a time when parents need to stay away from home and wait for birth. Unfortunately, as soon as the council is in progress, it seems that the matter will not be realized. So I want to take advantage of this opportunity and encourage the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs to consider this important matter and to work on benefits for the group under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u12	A respectable president. I'm going to talk to you about Home Control School at Hallorm's place and thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for doing the same. How so? At the end of May 2017, a minister of education and culture found that a school that has been working since 1930 does not fit into the primary secondary secondary school? Since the school does not fit into the curriculum according to its new definitions, he will not be accepted as a private school and no new school service contract will be established. Is school really not allowing room for what is lacking? How about a moderate measure of the administration? At the same time, applications from more students are available than the school can take over for the next semester. For 87 years there has been an all - out study of house - to - house affairs that has developed in the way of the age, a large number of students in those years have completed their studies, and recently the school's terrorist association was established to uphold its history and culture and to support further development. The study has been well prepared for formal study, but it has also been designed to build a general learning skill. Is it really the goal of the government of education to minimize the choice of an student as much as possible and to push every student into a book study, whether that is convenient or not? Is that really the primary solution to a drop from high school? What, then, is the position of the House Board School in Reykjavík at the end of May 2017 and the second brief high school education? That's what I'm talking about. The General and Education Committee to need answers before Congress ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u13	A respectable president. I was walking into the day when I heard that horrible news. I have to admit, it took me a long time to realize how pathetic an incident took place in England last night. Our close friends' nation will face this disastrous attack that is against young and young people. I'd like to thank you, Mr. Honorable President, for sending a sympathetic greeting to the British and British Parliament. There were a large number of children and young people, even children with their parents. We heard them on the radio this morning. This is where our most sacred enemy is attacked, as it stands closer to the heart of every family, our children, the children of our friends. What a sad impulse behind such badness to young people! As we have seen, Iceland is a peaceful nation in a peaceful country; we do not believe that violence is the solution. We live in peace, and we are to be thankful that in this land we have peace and thanks for the benefits we enjoy. For one thing, this shows that we have one of the best health systems in the world and that although we feel that we have to fix it, and we are going to do it, we should be grateful for what we live in. A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the compassion you've sent on behalf of members of Congress and have shown our friendship nation. Our mind is with those who mourn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u14	Madam President. First, I'd like to confess my sympathy to the British because of the tragic events that took place in Manchester last night. However, I would like to discuss only the FIA Security Committee and the Office's answer to the Commission letter earlier this month. The Social Security Committee for Professionals sent an inquiry on November 1, 2016, to the Association: ▪Samumar's runway was 06/24 at Reykjavík at the airport closed and released. The Social Security Committee for Professional Aviation, GIE, asks for information from the Association for information on whether any comments have been made during the closing procedure. Furthermore, THOSE points to the comments of the Grouping Room, dated June 1, 2015, of the planned closure of runway 06/24 at the Reykjavík airport, but the letter says: A special assessment of the progress of the change is required by the Home Office to confirm the closure of runway 06/24. PAULA requests information on whether or not this risk assessment has been conducted. May 11th. received an answer to the Security Committee from the Grouproom, which, in turn, says:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Istavia's formal approval for the change in airport operations to close the runway. A maintenance room was requested to undo the closure of the runway and to remove a new USEM where the runway is temporarily closed. I repeat, is temporarily closed. I'm sure you'll find it in force until the approval of the Agency is at hand. The risk assessment mentioned in the letter from June 1, 2015 has not been received from the Transport Room. The reply to the Social Security Committee for Professionals can be found to be some news based on what has happened in the past. Most must be aware that in this process the management department has failed, and it is clear that the whole situation needs to be reviewed in its overall context, an overall review of the timeliness of the situation. [[The president calls.]] The big question that the General needs to consider is whether the matter will be successful administrative practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u15	Madam President. I agree with the compassionate words of the Parliament and the sympathy of the President to the British because of the tragic events in Manchester last night, but I intend otherwise to only discuss the activities of the council, exactly the activities of the council. As far as I can see, the financial program that's supposed to be the main subject of today's conversation is very upset. Today's cover of the Morning Press claims that the Independence Party party does not support the financial program in the same form. That was at least a time. that the morning newspaper had a bearing on information from the insides of the Independence Party. Yesterday, at the council, it became clear that the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, president of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, is not responsible for his minister of the State Department and gave up completely that there was a chance of losing the expected additional tax change in tourism or relaxing. In other words, the highest. The minister of finance and economics, the chairman of the Luxury, stands alone, abandoned on the stage, on his euro, and no one in this government carries a volleyball of his plans. In other words again, Madam President, the case is very upset. The budget is in an uproar, the government has not agreed on anything, and the president of the council did just in the process of postponing a meeting. And the prime minister of the country did just in the process of breaching a council and making an election. It is a ruined government, can't agree on anything, has been able to become incredibly divided in a few months. It is extremely dangerous for the country to live in a ruined government while the imbalance in the economy and end up with the much more intense power that can continue to cope with it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u16	Madam President. I like the other Witnesses of the British nation to feel compassion for the tragic events of Manchester last night. I'd like to discuss the interest of the elderly and the interaction of their cowards and the payment of a pension fund. It was now the meaning that people would normally enjoy paying a pension fund through their lifetime, but unfortunately, the great connections have been in such a way that people have not been paid out of pensions. They know about nursing homes that people are very close to them, people who have never paid for a pension fund, and those who have paid for a pension fund. Today, there are still about 50% of those in nursing homes with no income from pensions. They don't have to pay for them, and it's not that it's natural to stand up with the lesser ones, but it's not that those who have paid into a pension fund over the years see this and enjoy it when they're old and have to take out their pensions; it's not that people are almost equal whether they have paid a pension or not when they're taken off from a nursing home and they get their pocket money. Last year's Social Security Act appointed a team to implement a research project on nursing homes and new arrangements for payment of residents in nursing homes. Admittedly, you have an expectation that it will change something, but we must start to improve the favor of the group that has put us in the place we are today, but it seems always that this group is standing with great limitations and will always be left behind when the money is set aside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u17	V.E.G. President. I can't let it pass for me to give a brief speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon earlier. He took a firm lead in the happiness of discussions about the financial program we will have here today. There was nothing more to him than to be seen, as a journalist in the morning newspaper would have been, for today's discussion. The Commission's opinion from a greater proportion of budgetary committees suggested that the financial programme be adopted and not a reason to believe that there is any hesitation in this regard. A majority of the budget committees decided to suggest that the plan will remain unconvinced, but they provide certain viewpoints that will be the main source of additional work in the implementation of financial programs. Like what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask knows the decisions on individual spending projects and income initiatives, not on the financial agenda, but on the budget of each year for tax or tax reforms that receive special treatment at the council. Commenting on the issues that have been discussed in the financial program, the committee's list of issues is thought - provokingly and carefully discussed in the majority of them. The chairman of the budget board will probably explain later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u18	Nothing to tell the Mogga?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u19	It seems to be a misunderstanding with a reporter in this regard, and I say this because there is a conclusion and an opinion that everyone should be familiar with. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] However, I do know that if the government needs it, it's not yet time to get counselling in how to direct the divided governments, then there is a problem. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson in that field. [[The president calls.]] [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u20	Madam President. Here we will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the financial agenda for 2018/22022. I recommend the majority of them. A legal committee that is to be viewed as having a united and cohesive position in the government on this important and large matter and its treatment here at the great General Assembly. Since the start of the last January of the last January, it has certainly been a hurry to reach the completion of issues established by the new laws on public finances that the Council takes into consideration at a time. We have certainly experienced that it was not the best time to accept in mid - January from the code of laws given to them in the format of the various issues that follow the new government laws, namely. The financial agenda that we discussed earlier in the winter, and we paid a vote just before the budget was established and then work on a financial plan for the next year. Then comes the matter itself, the budget, naturally in the fall, as the law expects. It is not particularly fitting that the timing of the new law should be replaced by government in January. In that light, there may be some of the points that have been considered in the treatment of the Council Committee and that we are actually driving the law for the first time in real life. All the products that we now post, all the currently developed events, are actually being performed for the first time. Although we have adopted our first national budget until five years of age at the council in the spring, this will mark a number of divorces. It has also been necessary to consider, in itself, that we are dealing with this project under new laws and are putting ourselves on that task. We had learned that the financier referred to the individual chapters of financial programmes to the Parliament's professional committees and the Scientific Committees worked in their field of diagnostic work and then gave them reviews. I would like to introduce, more dignified president, that the reviews from which the committees, more parts and smaller parts are to be considered as part of the payment it brings today. Although a panel of committees makes certain scenes of their claims higher than others, it should be viewed in the only way that we are sharpening the emphasis we considered right to put more emphasis on our work. The change was in order to include a financial committee on the plan itself and to divide it into five chapters by introduction, chapter 1. The others are called economic leaders, careers and prowess, public and public funds, government funds, and local financial matters. The Economic and Business Committee discussed the income of a state fund, which is the traditional role of the Economic and Business Committee in the state of finance, but a financial committee itself discussed three areas of interest in taxes, property and finance, growth, state-of-the-state commitments, pension bonds and reserves. Other fixed committees, as mentioned earlier, came to the fore in other topics and gave them references. In this discussion, we will discuss the experiences of this subject, and I will find that in my later speech, how this process can continue to work for us. But I have no doubt, now that we have a second discussion on this matter of concierge, that the practices and practices we had at the council make sure that we have a body of Congress that is well within our business committees in which members of the Parliament are sitting, overlooking the projects that we face and the goals we are going to set for ourselves. No doubt it is all better than before, without my going to the council members of the previous year. I'm just saying, we've all gathered now been shoveling through this scrap and acting out with tips, inquiries, and sharpening the direction that needs to be prepared. I would like to say, then, that the work of the budget and members of the Senate will no doubt be molded and will have to make progress. The financial committee who decided to send this to the Parliament's professional committee was primarily benefiting from the Scientific Committee, which has the highest expertise in the field of topic, to link with various activities that professional committees themselves are dealing with in their daily activities at the council and how they deal with their goals. This is also one of the things that we need to improve in the treatment of the council on individual councils, i.e. the awareness of the professional committees that changes in income or income are due to the payment of individual Parliaments must compete with the programs agreed by the council and the council. The financier decided on this release not to make an adjustment to the synopsis itself, but to submit tips and put them in their reviews, the government and the Commission for certain factors due to the preparation of the next budget or the next financial programme. No doubt this procedure can be discussed in detail and in many ways, but we also place it in our committees. Most of the professional committees as well as the financial committee agreed that the tools we have in our ministry also need to make some progress so that we can more fully prepare our donations. A respectable president. I'm going to discuss only the practices and equipment we think we need to get back up from the changing practices. We also mention in our committee party that the formation of the Senate resolution might have been improved. I referred to the fearful period of time when the government began to take over until this large issue entered the council. Without hesitation, I say that the process could no doubt have been improved significantly, and many rumors were then received. Among other things, financial advises were received, and I know that the Ministry of finance is covering these comments, probably in one of 29 subject. A financial committee received information on this at a meeting at the highest level. Secretary of finance, when he arrived at the end of a judicial committee on the matter, how to react to these comments, and to improve the presentation. A financial committee offers an effort in its committee's study to correct and define between stock costs and business, thus increasing the clarity of the current strategy. It should now be easier to realize our policy in investments and long - term policy in business. We are also directed to the head of the Generals to reevaluate the General Work Programme on the basis of the new law. I think it's quite realistic that we'll also change the times to improve the coverage of financial planning and financial support. I mean, and we'll discuss it no doubt in the discussion we're going to follow on with the budget plan, that it's possible, after we've done as much in terms of the financial agenda as we've done this time, and then we're going to improve the procedure, that the debate of fictitation takes it a possible shorter time in the fall than we've been. I think it's a goal that we should set up to complete the coverage and payment of budgets by November 20, if at all possible, and plan for the Council's work programme on it. We can do this best if we succeed. If we succeed, we can take the financial program earlier into the council until the winter, after the year, in order to have better control of our goals, goals, and measures we would like to take in order to achieve the goals we set for ourselves. I would especially like to mention what has been prominent in the discussions about the government's financial affairs, not only on this matter, but also on the board of administrations and monitoring committees in a certain way, i.e. Arrangement by the Generals to the government's budget and financial administration. We say, with the permission of the president, in the committee's opinion: The general and members of Parliament's staff for financial administration must be trusted. The members of the council and the professional committees of the Parliament must have access to a powerful network. The review of more than one part of the Economic and Business Committee is made up of e.g. The need to promote economic analysis was discussed. A greater proportion of legal committees agree with this and believe that a significant lack of a financial committee is able to preserve its place fully in the changing financial environment. It is particularly important to consider the role of the monitoring committee and its independence to work on analyses and monitoring how and whether agreed objectives and measures will achieve their purpose in individual topic areas. I'll just make that confession here, a respectable president, after driving a legal committee in this winter, in the special circumstances and in the special time that the government took over in January, that the second traditional role of a legal committee, such as the surveillance role, has, unfortunately, had to be pushed aside. I think it is also important that we realize that if we are to take part in this changing environment on the basis of policy goals, monitor how policy is being carried out, how we are going to work at it, we must in some way also change the procedure in those areas. We are sure to be fine - and have shown this in budgetary committees in recent years and budgetary committees in recent years - in analysing all the numbers in the business, the entire budget, but we can certainly improve our work ethic and how we reach our goals. The number of reports due to this strategy is high to 200, of which less than one third of the transport-related data is associated with travel services, which made comments on the intention of maintaining room service and other transport-related services were moved from lower levels to the general step. A lot of attention has been given to the changes, since they may be the most controversial aspect of the financial program we discuss here. Hence, this number of references came to the council. I often mention it in conference discussions, as we are considering the products of committees, that we may not be sufficiently concerned about the extent to which a community organization is available and for individuals to promote their views, whether this is a protest or a support or a motivation for change. You see, I think it's one of the parts of the Senate work that I'll admit I've discovered to a greater extent after I've settled into Congress, i.e. how much public attendance is and how it affects the legalization of the Council and the legal process of Congress. These are things that I don't feel we don't raise up enough and discuss. This gives us a special status, and to some extent, the answer to conversations we hear very often about the fact that the U.S.A. is an isolated organization that has little effect on people. You see, it's the opposite. It is readily available to people by sending in reviews on the matter of Congress. I also feel that as a result of a discussion that followed the application of the draft proposal for financial review, people began to feel that they had not received a request for narratives, important to correct it, and to promote that they need not be asked to send reviews for all council members. It may well be that this practice should be reprobated by the General. I'll mention here that any members of the Parliament should stop sending specific requests to their members, while the General wants to put a matter on the council's website and ask for references so that everyone is aware that they have the equal position to send in the narratives. This may not be a financial discussion, but in view of the fact that we have a different practice, it could be one of the points we need to consider. The biggest burden of Congress reviews and financial programmes is the new law on financial matters. In view of this, a financial body has presented criticism that is worthy of consideration, and a financial committee is aware that, as previously said, there are targeted measures to take. By 13. track No. For public financial reasons, the role of a financial body is to determine whether financial programmes meet the baseline laws and the opinion of the Council should be published publicly. The Council has provided a more thorough opinion, as well as the Commission and the Economic and Economic Ministry have reviewed it in terms of improvements. The majority agree with a number of factors that the council points to, which include the following - and I mention here key points, more dignified president: 1st Key numbers are not always set out in a uniform way that can make comparison difficult and is not translucency. In fiscal policy, the aims of rural society and state funds are expressed as a proportion of GDP, but in the plan, there is only an absolute form but not as a proportion. 2. In certain areas of public finance, more analysis and support is needed for infrastructure predictions and policy makers. For example, the evaluation of the economic effects of specific measures, such as changes in value tax, is not established. 3. It is noted that a consistent approach could be made to national interest models and projections that are behind the economic and economic assessments. All major analysts use the Society's model in their predicting. The need for public funds needs to be considered with regard to a new structure and the development of a national economic model. A respectable president. These three points may have framed just what we had to deal with handling financial plans for the next year and tell us that we have to make some improvements. The third point that I referred to, about national interest models, also builds on the aspect I mentioned here on the role of the Parliament and the Council Job and the instruments that the council may lack to assess in a certain way what is suggested. I then refer to the greater portion of the section on other points mentioned by financial advisers, and we are in a certain way lifting it up here. Of course, financial matters are well considered, and it is very interesting to read them from a word to a word and to see that the means of financial advice will also develop and be able to improve the subject of public financial matters. For a long time, it has been a very valid part of the work of the branch committee at a time, when it comes to budgeting money in the fall, to welcome visitors to the Committee, and particularly to local representatives. The financier now decided to send the financial program to the national part-of-a-part partnership and ask them to arrange visits on the committee in their own area. We, by the way, were opening up the stage in a way that allowed our communities to be financed sooner or earlier, on public financial policies than has been. As we have previously been on a budget board in the fall of the United States, we have known the practice that local government officials come up with reviews of budgetary regulations and also present the emphasis they want to place on various projects in their local territories - natural, their approach to the legislatator is to try to influence him in this way. But by opening up this conversation at this point in terms of financial planning, we would like to give the national, rural, and rural organizations a chance for us to come to a new level of play and to be more concerned and suggestions and requests. We're underlined in the opinion that in our work we refer to the memos that the management committees have sent in a specific way to the Prime Minister of each topic field because in this new environment, we have assigned individual advisers a set of priorities and it is important that we call it in our conclusions that the Ministers also open the way for this conversation with our rural society. In itself, we have no greater cohesion or co-worker in public financial matters than is the local community in the discussion of priorities and the work being done on each subject. We also had some expectations about talking to our rural communities, and we would like to have a conversation with national and rural communities after this financial deliberation committee about how we can improve this conversation. We talked a great deal about paying off financial policy that there was a great need for us to identify the economic situation of the individual parts of the country. We have discussed a number of ways in which public projects could be organized in other ways to influence the level of economic expansion that is truly increasing. In our members of the Committee magazine, we say that we would like to adopt a conversation with the local branch society to discuss whether they can, with their uniform behavior, establish simple levels that could be useful in the future global economy. In addition, I would like to mention that a financial committee did a great deal about investments and investments, which are not just on the hands of the public but are at an investment level in the general country. A financial committee began in that field by looking for cooperation with industrial organizations and other bodies, e.g. the construction market, the export market for various projects, and so forth, which we could possibly use as a measuring device for the development of investments in our country. It may be in that area, as we discovered in our coverage of financial and financial policy as well, which we are most vulnerable to, i.e. how we should evaluate our investment levels. We know government plans, we know rural plans, but we have a much less clear view of the private market itself. While methods such as counting construction plants are good and valid, I think that it is necessary that we take a little further and be more effective in measuring this method as well as at least within the individual parts of the country. We published in our opinion two main tablets that were not in the original Senate case. We can call one of them an investment table and the other development of donations for various aspects of the business. In general, this matter of Congress is an exorbitant expansion. The critics'criticism of financial programs was especially two: it is too impulsive to charge, and it is way too thrifty for spending. It's a mission to find your way in between. We've measured in the economy to tell us how it works. It is then, and clearly revealed in our committee's list, how expenses for individual causes are under way. This is in harmony with what we can determine from the public discussion that takes place in various activities and purposes. A respectable president. In itself, I can discuss some of the points of our committee opinion, but it was also shown in the financial committee that certain criteria have changed during the discussion. For example, the sale of the foreign stock market, which is not expected in a financial program adopted last year, nor in the current budgets, and which are not carefully implemented in the financial programme we are considering, but they are making significant changes. We'll discuss these in a few words in the Commission opinion, in which we actually add that savings from this operation during the strategy period are estimated at 11.3 billion, but they also contain a number of costs this year. Hence, this year's or financial plans for this year in itself do not necessarily change, but we want to draw attention to the fact that the only action that was big and important means that government funds will save long - term expenses. We don't suggest that we eliminate the low price range there will be. On the other hand, I think it's important that we further add to the rest that we would have to aim for public finance. We also call for a change in income plans, but they come up to a considerable extent to the cost of this major operation. I would like to emphasize that in a discussion that has arisen after a financial committee provided a majority opinion on financial matters, it may not be just a question of what we are really doing. We are, as I said at the beginning of the speech, not making adjustments to the tablets in the actual Senate resolution. However, at the end of the committee opinion, we present various indications. In this matter, we are not falling away from any increase or change in merit taxation. We're saying that we're going to pick this up a lot of money and spend it a lot of money, so we're gonna split it down to the topic areas that are traced there. In contrast, a financial committee, in its indications to the government, assumes that there will be a reevaluation of any previous plans for that subject. We both contribute, like coming charges. In recent years, there has been quite a lot of discussion about attendance costs. We're not saying that it's the only truth, that we're holding some big truth in that subject, but I don't think it's important that we destroy the bag that's involved. We know all the flaws it can result from, the pressures on domestic flights, and these factors that we could possibly say are a problem with, but there are also benefits in the way we arrive. I mentioned earlier that, after reviewing a budget plan, we believe there may be more money left over than there is a tenth of the plan. If I turn toward the end of this talk to the individual topic areas, we will be on both professional committees and financial committees, on a unique topic field. We will see, and we will draw it out in this new table of financial arrangements, what the priorities of the government are for health and communication classes. We deal a great deal about these classes that I think are necessary for us to enter, such as the transport secretary's strategy for identifying the pros and cons of retrieving other transport funding. Whether or not to change the amount of money we bind at the Kaffifík terminal to other transport workers. I am delighted to see how much attention this aspect of our lives has been given because people have wanted to put into the understanding that we are going to discuss. It's in itself completely compatible with regulations, and we had in the approval of the fiscal policy of the forwarding government and the Independence Party here last spring, where we also discussed these monuments at the Cheflavour Airport and how we're going to change them. It has become the case that each of the cohesion bases owns a state and a private member of the network is behind about 80% of the total flights in Europe. There's nothing that can forbid us to discuss whether it's the best system we have on the air base in Keflavík today. There may be threats and opportunities to do so. Let's just talk about it. This, however, is reality. This mixed possession has become much more common than in the past. A respectable president. I see my time is running out. I look forward to this discussion. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that, toward the end of the committee opinion, we'll draw together a few points to the points that we wanted the government to make a special examination of the budget in the autumn. I could think of them after their importance, but I prefer not to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u21	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's story for the members' party of the greater part. There's a lot I'd like to ask you. A senator in. I'll start by asking him more about what he said earlier. In fact, he said: This plan that marks government policy to five years is still a plan, so we have not made any decisions on worth saving money in tourism. Nevertheless, a person read the greater part of the committee, that it is actually being suggested to compromise the plans to bring the tourism up to the top steps of a high-value tax in the middle of a year and that it is being suggested that the way of the coming fees be checked instead. I want to ask you why. A senator, the highest. Secretary of finance, who has called the coming charges the one true national tax and should not compromise from plans to increase the value tax in tourism: Is unity in the administrative part of this proposal? Which I can't understand. Although the majority of the proposals remain unconvinced, everything from the committee's opinion can be heard. The senator's opinion is that the greater part is not suggesting that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u22	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Yes, there is a great unity in the administrative part of the budget, much better than many think. I think it's only natural that after the church treatment, the vast treatment that the Senate provided a financial program, there will be indications to process. I think it's responsible for a greater proportion of legal committees that say: It's unfortunate to put here on a merit tax in the middle of a management period. It is unfortunate that we do not make them any other choice. A lot of criticism is shown on the value of extra tax in tourism. So, why don't we just say that there are other ways to look at? We also clearly identified other ways in which we could deal with the financial committee, such as bringing together all of the valuable items into one worthwhile bit of tax. It's traced to the majority of the economic and business committees. We don't think that's the route now. That's why we're calling our comebacks. If the senator asks about it, that's an excellent unity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u23	Madam President. It is, in the greater part, a unity of understanding the highest. Secretary of finance left in this case. It's fine to realize that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about two other things. He's speaking for the privatization of the flight station in Keflavík, or at least part-inclusive, as I understood his words earlier. Got it. Don't you think about taking a party, which is actually a monopoly on international flights to the country, private property? What I've read from the world's leading liberals who speak for the private operating of air traffic, they say, however, that it is never a good idea to move bases into private business that are in monopolicing position. And the other one I want to ask why. Regarding: The final motion of the major section is that the benefits of setting up a government over the Land Hospital operation must be considered. Presumably political government. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is there any mistrust in a greater proportion of legal committees toward the heads of the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u24	A respectable president. I'm going to make it clear that we understand the highest. The secretary of finance is not left alone at all. We are especially in his jubilant band to present practical suggestions here. He has opened his books and explained his priorities, we reflect his discussion, and the reviews on that subject. It is his and the government to prepare the rest. He is, therefore, not left alone on an iceberg somewhere out of control, unless he is less. I know it's the highest. In view of this, a minister of finance has benefited greatly from long - term cooperation. As for the privatization of the airport, an old chairman of the National Farmer Association of Iceland is not going to think he is some liberal apostle in the General Public Court, unless less. A man careful. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, ……]] But I feel that we should examine it with an open mind. Is the State really supposed to be running a shopping mall with coffee cups and other services there? [[Up front.]] With regard to mistrust in hospital officials: No, not at all. We want a health minister to consider the possibility of improving and promoting the management of the Land Hospital in their important activities by forming a powerful team with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u25	Madam President. Hv. The head of the budget board has criticized the development of a financial programme and has said that it has to be untransparent and that it needs to be improved, endorsed by financial advisers in this regard. But I have to say that suggestions and suggestions are practical. The legal committees are very transparent, at least I don't understand them. Even if it's rough. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, has tried to explain them only in the past, I do not yet understand them. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether the greater part is suggesting that, in place of the worthwhile tax change, there be charges, or are the members of the Parliament and the greater part suggesting that 2019 become both a high-value tax, or a worth extra tax in general stages, and a coming fee? I want to pray. A senator explaining this to me because I don't understand what is being suggested. [[The president calls.]] Can return dues really replace the cost tax to cover the range of 17 billion per year of 2019?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u26	A respectable president. I can't help but think we've framed it as clearly as possible. I know we what we're doing. A senator agrees on the criticism that was in the production of financial programs. We have, for example, spoken well in one voice. For questions about how to obscure the ideas or tip of the greater part, I'll try to work it out as best I can. We say it's unfortunate to set a merit tax in the middle of a business year. We are not suggesting that this fall from the income source. We say, "We're going to make a lot of money, and then we're going to take a lot of money, so we don't take one card out of the deck and leave the secretary of finance alone on an iceberg, and we don't have the income to pay off what we tell him in the other word to do. ' The idea of filing may be totally opposed to the amount of money that will be possible if it fails to collect in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u27	Madam President. V.E.G. Budget and economic minister, president of Recreation, has said that he is not going to compromise the concept presented and proposed in the financial programme, and is well explained, of the increase in value of road taxes, so it goes up to the general level. V.E.G. Tourist, Coordinator of the Chairman of the Fund Committee, has said that there will be no both, no raise, and no return fees will be taken. She rather agrees that the merit tax will be increased. Then, in response, the head of Parliamentary Reunion writes under the majority opinion of a financial committee suggesting that the increase in worth of taxes be dropped, at least In 2018, in return, expenses were replaced. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not understand that we in the government opposition are wondering if the government has fallen, whether it really is a unity within the management board on how to finance the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u28	A respectable president. No, I didn't ask myself 30 seconds how the government's opposition will feel whether the government has fallen or not. Just not at all. I have other things to do with my time than that. We are suggesting that, in our contribution, a greater proportion of the budgetary committee, certain diagnostics have to be performed before making decisions. We're saying that it's unfortunate to put a merit tax in the middle of the period. We're suggesting that there be talk of other businesses, such as coming charges. We are not here to be struck and to say: " Take this, do this, and it's supposed to be this way. ' Not at all. We want the material discussion that has become a matter of financial planning, and that is exactly what we will consider in this new arrangement that we are discussing government over a longer period of time in the way we do, that there are others involved, that we take longer to consider, and that we try to reflect more viewpoints. That's what we're doing. Please take this plan further. It may well be, I'm not going to rule it out, that it will be exactly this conclusion that appeared in the Senate case at the beginning, which then will be the case. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, though, we have taken this discussion and have made certain diagnostics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u29	A respectable president. It is an interesting table on page 18. 10◯11, which deals with the change in total donations of 2017/2022, where stock costs and joints outside the framework are excluded. That's where even the two of them come from. is reported at 23 to an 8.8% increase in this subject class, hospital service, over time. This is after taking away the building of a new hospital. This number is slightly lower than economic growth during this period of about 14.5%. I wondered, " Is this relevant to the government's declaration of health care? ' Other joints, e.g. University, it speaks of a 7.7% increase, which is also only half of a interest level. But the numbers I copied from the budget and the budget of 2017 tell me 6.7%. I'm not sure the numbers are correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u30	A respectable president. I'm not going to get caught up in judging whether numbers are right or wrong. A senator has his hands or whether he will build them on the same basis as we produce tablets. I don't have that on my hand. But I'm waiting. I know that he is a very observant man, and he is a model member of a budget board, and I would like to say, consider the development of medical bills in relation to other health issues, such as buying drugs, caring for the elderly, and so forth, all that solve hospital discharge problems. We can never take the hospital service alone and say: There is absolutely nothing to be done. Rather, we must look at other issues and lawsuits if we are to judge them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u31	A respectable president. That is exactly what I do in my committee program, where I gather the health - care language fields. There I count a 17.9% increase, then at stock costs. I compare this with the United Nations CRFOG standard that has been collected in the budgets of the past few years. If I compare the same period between 2000 and 2008, the same period of increase is 25.9%, 26%, 20.3%, and 8.6%, or on average 22.7%, which is much higher than this less than 18%. What I would like to ask, also to get completely clear: Here is a suggestion for a change in merit tax. However, there is still a suggestion to value a tax on tourism, but only during the New Year's season, not in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u32	A respectable president. Again, I pray. A senator reading what we have specifically read in our committee list and taking more joints, such as health care outside the hospital, an increase of 27%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u33	I did.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u34	Medicine and medical products, 53.8%. [[Up front.]] We need to look at this in the overall context. I think it's our conclusion that we can't say, "Well, it's hopeless because it's only 7.7% in one place, but we're taking it whole. What awaits the secretary of finance and the government for the next budget is to reevaluate the income mail that the government fund has. If a government fund has a chance to drop from the change in value tax in mid-year tourism because simply more money is in the system, it's one way. I also call attention to the fact that we're not on our own to fall away from our intention to lower the value tax, the upper level of the cost tax, which will benefit most people if not everyone in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u35	Madam President. I want to give it to the chairman of the budget board, what? A senator, one more chance to try to explain to me the meaning of the legal committee. What does it involve? What Does It Mean? In fact, in the opinion of the committee, a greater proportion of the budgetary budget is rejected but does not suggest any change. What does that mean? What, then, is the significance of this? To whom should we make a choice, a consideration of the members of the committee, or the conclusion of the greater part not to suggest a single change? I think that's what we're talking about. The chairman of the budget board must try to do a little more in this regard. Whether this financial program has the majority of support or support at the end of the operation is one of the hopes of uncertainty. I think the chairman of the budget is supposed to do a little better about this. We need to be a little more clear whether the speeches are and what values are in this regard, the ideas of the legal committee, the ideas of doing things differently than a financial plan suggests, or the conclusion of not making any adjustments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u36	A respectable president. I say, we don't change the synopsis. We're talking about the same income, the same budget. We suggest a review of plans. Then there must be other plans to replace these frameworks with income and expenses. Third, I would like to say that we make the budget, which is the next legal case in this series on official financial matters, would certainly present some initiatives and changes that do not fully conflict with financial issues. We know this from our last budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u37	Madam President. Now, the more part makes a good deal of comment or opinion from a financial body. In the sections, you can see from the opinion of the greater part that there are doubts about the frames, doubts about them as to national interest. It is not only a matter of how poor the State's product is on the scale of a shift-corrected element; it is referred to as the poor survival of rural society, but it is not changed. This is not just so that more of the budget committees have ideas about different exports to income gatherings. The majority of the panels care considerably about whether the foundation itself, frames itself, is standing, but do not suggest a change of them. Should we understand this so that more of the legal committees have doubts about the frames? Counting the State's contribution to the economic fluctuation of the corrected element, e.g. too bad, which, of course, I agree completely. It would be interesting to hear what you're saying. Only the chairman of the budget talks about it, as per the front page of the news magazine today, where we are said to rush into fraud, for the crown's gang has become too strong, and the economic system has become unstable. [[The president calls.]] How does this plan meet?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u38	A respectable president. The local senator has to admit that he has not read the News News or Morning newspaper today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u39	What is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u40	That's just the country, and I know why. A senator has a certain understanding of this: It's not quite possible with morning work. We address various financial concerns. I think it would be totally unnatural for a majority of the legal committee to come out and say, "Here's everything right here, and there's no need to worry, just not at all. The storm clouds that are about to rise, which are at the highest. The secretary of finance has been foremost in pointing out, such as the crew of the crown and its possible tragic consequences, all of them at the horizon. However, we do not believe that it is our responsibility to reject the criteria laid under the framework that are published in this synonym. The Gaming Council agrees. It's always saying that we're on top of the economy, and we always go up the top. [[The president calls.]] We have one of the longest economic growth courses in this financial program. It will end at some time. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, we are moving on, like a dog. A senator knows that there will be economic growth here. In this way we need to settle this matter, as do other matters that can affect our economic growth, economic development, and development, in a totally responsible way, so that we do not get the setback that we have, unfortunately, often suffered over the years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u41	Madam President. Well, it's been a considerable review of the way this has been done on the condition of the Generals and the time frames and other totally unacceptable things, and we need at least one. a month more to cover such issues as sub-flashion. This applies not only to the budget board but also to its processing on what comes from the reviews of regular committees, who also received far too little time. In fact, the agencies of the government were not even expected to get the opportunity to express themselves about it. However, the talks and conversations that we spoke on a budget committee had guests, and all the reports on the subject were evidence that there was a full need to save them out in this way, and time was not enough. What has already happened has shown that we need to promote professional aspects around the Council's work on the work to be done on public finances so that it will be organized, and the council can use its financial authority in a consistent and orderly way. Every era's budget affects every Iceland in some way. Necessary urgency and lack of information must not lead to such an important issue being trudged either in the scene of the Generals or anywhere else. In fact, the financial rules under which the laws of subsidiary and maintenance that right - minded governments have, unfortunately, applied throughout public finance over the past decades when economic problems have been severely maligned, causing many to be confined to the well - being and important basic services of the government with the long - term financial resources. Thus, it has been created an application tool for wealth and privatization in behalf of capital owners with reason that they should act where the government does not choose its work. This can be seen, i.e. Government and plan policies, on page 8. 16 of the State budget including Development of co-efficient consumption is expressed as a proportion of GDP. It will go down during the planned period and will be near the end of the last 25 years on average. Unfortunately, such conjugal and cutting policy means that the government's declaration that infrastructure must be considerable, and much grief is not concerned with what is said in the kronos and the pennies. Business organizations have pointed out in their review that a fund - building program is being built up and the government conceals his position on private business in areas to which the government has so far taken care of by the government. I agree that in the program it is not possible to see that the project should be connected with the plans and expenses and their funding. This means that this violates the safety concerns considered among baselines that are to be symptomatic of the financial programme. There is also concern that personalisation plans are not generally reported in the context. Then there is the suspicion that behind an unfunded declaration of this, there must be plans for such private finance, even private property, on the inside. Sadly, the maintenance point of the government's plans outweighs the efforts to build up or to strengthen the welfare system. On the other hand, the prerequisite for a reduction in public debt is very variable factors, and the point is to consider and discuss, such as the provision of irregular incomes and sales of financial assets. As a result, there is great uncertainty about the government's success plans for such a great decrease in public debt. The proposal also lacks all coverage of the government's money-based debt and, on the other hand, the need to raise up because of insufficient investments over the years and analysis of its economic effects and its significance to the future. It is important to remember that the neglect of infrastructure in recent years has produced a debt to be paid, unless it is intended to be exacted on the generations that follow us. Superemphasis on the subsidies of the written debt at the expense of maintaining society's infrastructure on the welfare system can easily lead to unwise actions that conflict with national interests. There is evidence to suggest that there is now an Icelandic community in that area. As noted, the introduction has been highly critical. Because it is blurred and not transparent. It is shocking to talk about investments and income funds in the overview of the budgeting of causes of acidification. Council members, i.e. Other sources of money, as well as financial committees, needed to collect considerable additional information so that it could be distinguished and tried to read something in the financial program. Some of it worked, but not all of it. It is very important to separate investments from business ventures, so that we too will be able to go along with actual spending on lawsuits and paints for a long time. The tax policy displayed in this national budget is in itself a direct continuation of the tax policy of the right government mentioned above, with no particular mention of it. The changes made during the past few years, as shown on page, included a deed to earn money in a government fund. Forty-five, but not the tax returns as if they were right. Unfortunately, there is no intention to increase the tax balance in the country. This role of the tax system is considered to be left green, although it is necessary to maintain high levels as well as those that focus on the equation and on the welfare systems of the people. A respectable president. This is a broad opinion that I give on behalf of the left green, and the members of the committees will be more aware of the individual topic areas that follow than I am able to do right now. We've got a problem in the form we're dealing with. Among other things it has been observed that the coordination and coordination of various public programmes includes the aims of new development of public funds. It's a good thing, but it hasn't quite worked out in the budget, that I think, to put together the products so that they'd all make up, and it seems that cooperation with them was limited. I really hope that it will be added to the next financial plan. The review of the financial Council, which is very extensive, includes the following: Interestingly, only one national interest model is used to predict the progress of the economy in this country, i.e. The Navy's national interest model. It is noted that both this contributes to a single effort in predicting and also to the fact that a controversial national interest model is not entirely in order to deal with the issues of the budget, which include a financial agenda. there is a need for greater opportunities to assess the impact of policy and economic development behind public financial issues. A respectable president. Now, I'm just gonna go for a little bit of a big show, but as I said, it's clear that I can't get over just a little bit. Health issues have been involved, were before elections, are, and continue to exist. I'm going to read what came out in the future, a group of health ministers, to the questions of the medical journal before elections that appeared in 10 issue of 2016, which says, by permission of the president: To ensure justice and safety of health care, a health - care professional needs to be increased. It was a great statement made by the current executives for campaigns to reform the health system when they were making their pockets green for voters. Unfortunately, as it is, when those numbers have been overwritten, as I came in earlier, there is little to say. Once the amount has been separated and classified, it will be found that only 38 billion dollars are expected. an absolute increase in 2018 from the current year to the general population. Will this be enough to meet the 10 billion accumulated needs of the Land Hospital, business, equipment, and other market costs according to the government - directed hospital plan. It was also noted at the meeting of the World Health Committee with Hospital directors in Akureyri that some 370 million were missing, or some 32 million more, in actual growth. There is building and rebuilding at the Land Hospital, as we all know. It's the biggest investment project in the health system. These projects are slow, slow to the point of hope, and lack of money. As I say, around 13 billion are needed in the financial program to complete the development of a treatment core and a research building on the Ring Road, to create a house of equipment, and to make needed changes and improvements to the building to which it is intended to continue. Furthermore, about 6.5 billion are missing in order to make plans for the clinic in Akureyri a reality. There is an urgent need for them to perform and improve the older facilities of the hospital. Thus, a total of about 20 billion are needed in the financial program of the five years in order to complete the basic building projects in the country's area of specialized community services that wait during the scheduled period. It is to add the complete promises and declarations of health - care structure that set out goals, measures, and actions and development of a special hospital service, as stated by the permission of a president: In Iceland, a specialised hospital compares to a similar hospital in the North countries. In view of what I have previously said about funding for a special hospital service in the coming years, it is difficult to see that the above goals will be anything but empty. According to reliable evidence, such as government bills and revised annual accounts of the Land Hospital, he is now being expelled for similar money as at the beginning of the century as measured by solid prices. Must be a miracle, however, that it was possible to maintain such an awesome mechanism of operation. Clearly, this cannot go on indefinitely, for many of the major aspects of social and population development requiring the implementation of the Hospital and other fully developed structures. It seems that when you read the government budget that the growth of health care outside the official hospitals is expected to be much greater than within them. This means that the costs for private health care will be increased and such activities will be increased, while they will enjoy the well - being of those in charge. They are the most economic private business, and there seems to be a small amount of money available from public funds when they land in that area. Also, it is not possible to sit back and discuss the promise of a roof in the credit system, i.e. Every year the maximum pay of each user's health care system due to be 50. by removing the infamous medical expenses of individuals with difficult medical conditions. Unfortunately, it does not appear to be 50 of you. or 70 you should, let alone all of these medicines be taken under. The nation's age combination is that it is only expected that the need for a nursing home will be impaired in the coming days. Sadly, though some increase in nurses is expected, she answers, not an estimated need, but only about half of it. No information is provided on how to deal with the causes of those who will not be able to afford a medical facility. Rather, it cannot be avoided to mention the heavy business of a large number of nursing homes, but many operators, e.g. Companys, pay substantial amounts of money through business, and even consider giving up their homes to the State, will not be able to remedy this. It seems that there is no room for the right position. The Family Issue has teams that in some way all have an impact on the security and the environment of their families. The goals are great, but perhaps they are a little bit short of sufficiency. Sadly, money does not seem to be a means to distribute it. It can be said that the government of the Independence Party, Action, and Bears future is more ambitious when it comes to this, and that is more of a retrospective trend than evolution. It is not intended to extend or set a minimum wage to the minimum, nor is it intended to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. There is no greater ambition for child - reforming because the system continues to narrow down so that fewer people will be paid off rather than using it to increase the order between groups. Again and again the words are used simple and efficient. This harsh performance in the case of child - rearing families and young adults is much more serious when surveys, both in Iceland and in nearby lands, show that young people have fallen back from the older age range on the evolution of biographers. Governments must take note of reports showing that thousands of children in Iceland live in poverty. Children are the most vulnerable in society, and at the same time the most vulnerable, and it is the government to keep them in mind if children are affected by putting them first in their plans and building a strong social welfare network. Unfortunately, it seems that the government will not place appropriate funds to ensure induction and hopefully legalize the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. There are no visible actions directly related to the induction process, but more powder is spent on the incidence of disability and efficiency assessments. The same is true here and in many other places that despite the high standards of the state funds, there is no way to improve the situation of the poor and the worst in the community. The plan seems to remain that the enforcing insurance insurance of those who are named to ensure payment for them to maintain their lowest salary will cut off a cent for a dollar. You can refer to the envelopes of the Corporate Community and the ASI on that subject. There is a set of laws on the user - controlled personal assistance, but it is difficult to identify the actual amount of money to follow. The increase observed in topic areas towards the elderly is primarily to meet the expected increase in the elderly and to raise the cut-off levels of employment at small doses until it reaches 100 you. K. month at the end of schedule. At that time, the effects of a biosurgent age increase from 67 years to 70 years in 24 years seem to be internalized in the plan. It is also worthwhile to think that only a few older ones enjoy this increase, leaving a couple and couples behind, not enjoying a better national economy, which is completely unpleasant. In education, there is much to think about. The decision no longer to shield education for the general requirements is incomprehensible and in no way consistent with the promise to strengthen the education system after years of starvation. There is no reason to back up the plan to why it is not being done. We knew that students of high school would reduce their numbers, not just by shortening the study, but by a temporary physiological reduction, which is short - lived for just two years. It has been claimed that the savings resulting from shortening high school education should be used to further the school level, which is betrayed here, as it is found that the total cost to high school will decrease over the period by nearly 1.5 billion compared with the year 2017. Sadly, nothing is to be done with the promise of the previous government to use savings that will result from the shortening to strengthen the study and further its high school levels. Older Congregation Book Study students are referred to personal resources that involve costs and discomfort. We need to keep in mind that the lack of education is one of the main risks of poverty and the high stake that all who wish to pursue it give just as much opportunity. The same thing happens at the university. It was put on the rise on account of the financial and economic minister when the financial programme was presented that on the basis of increased costs to the university they could expect to improve the quality of the operation and meet international comparisons. It does not seem to be the opinion of those who have discussed this plan. Ever since the last left government, an effort has been made to build an English - language program in the Melin in Reykjavík. It's about to happen. According to the Parliamentary arrangement, expenses are required for this 3,290 million. and when taken out of the box, it is clear that the years up to 2021 will be very difficult for college and difficult to see if the wish can be fulfilled that it will be comparable to the OECD average in 2016 and the Northern States in 2020, as proposed by the Scientific and Technical Council. Icelanders will continue to live in an unfunded university operation unless it is taken to reduce the number of college students and to reduce the number of university careers. That may be the point. Finally, I want to find out about school affairs that Iceland's National Institute of Livings, which we've talked about, is in a lot of trouble, and it does not seem to be expected to improve in the coming years. I'm sorry, I have to say, a respectable president. In the 31th topic, housing support, it becomes evident that in view of the situation in which we are facing housing, the promises made are hardly being dealt with. The budgets on interest improvements are replaced. Of course, families who receive such support are greatly increased. The system's balance effect is paradoxed, which adds to difficulties, especially younger ones. The plans of the government must be disappointing, especially for young people who are far worse off than those of a young generation less than 30 years ago. There must be real benefits for young people living in a house market, whether with purchase or rent, because the future of Icelandic society is based on our well - equipped living for all people and especially for young ones. Sadly, though, the government will bring about as soon as possible a solution to the land's housing problem, as it is now known to all. Subject range 17 includes: dealt with environmental issues. We have talked about climate change, especially the response to climate change and measures to reduce pollution, which are among the most important activities of the day. Sadly, with regard to budgets for the 17 issues listed, there is little chance that they will be handled as planned, but when all is considered, it is to see that only a few hundred million will be spent in the seminary on the length of the programme. We could support the Paris meeting with land healing to a far greater degree than this one's suggested. We would have to support handsomely in the purposes of the Paris convention. Actually, the cost is low, but the benefits are abundant. It can also be seen by the large reduction of forest production after fall in 2008 and the growth of the crops has not increased much since then. There is no sign of a national financial agenda that changes in that subject. There is concern that hundreds of millions are needed to expand. forestry and increasing the carbon binding. This is one of the objectives of the Paris convention. With 200 million. K. additional improvements, e.g. double forests and four times as many as one by adding something more. It would be a good investment to the future, and each government would have succeeded in such recovery of land for future generations. It is expected that ten new environmental peace forms will be guided by protection and priorities, with emphasis on the protection of the central population but with the realization that it lacks funds, especially in the light of increasing exposure to nature. A respectable president. I'm running out of time. Next time, I'm going to go to transport and communications. We all know the long - term hunger of the roadmaking process. The government has declared its will to invest in transport infrastructure and transport systems beyond what has been done in the past few years. They want to explore new avenues, so-called co-operation, but this is not being implemented in a national financial programme. Then I have to face up to the criticism of professional organizations that the plans for them could be described here so that they could be taken into consideration. I'd also like to maintain the advantage of increasing transport expenditures, which include economic inexorability and the lack of resources for transport workers. I have to point out that in recent years, the markets for road income products, e.g. such as a special tax of gasoline, fuel charge, and oil tax, are seriously weakened and at stake are the sums that would greatly remember and have remembered the past few years, which could have been used in road projects instead of putting up with a vague plan of remuneration. We also know the need for land porting, and unfortunately, there does not appear to be much table here. I've often said in this pontta that it would be appropriate to define the international flight as part of the public transport system and thus support it as a real alternative for people who need to travel between parts of the country. In the 9th matter field of public and justice, as in many other places, the number production is not very revealing. You might think that it was going to be a significant increase in financial and social security spending, but unfortunately, the real increase is around 2.8% when we've withdrawn expenses for shopping. A detailed analysis has also been available on the affairs of law enforcement and its integration and financial agendas, in many ways, have been successful except for the vital point that the budget does not support the words of the financial and economic minister to which he agreed with the facts, that it was, by permission of the President: ...resisting of law enforcement across the country as well as border control. It is evident, then, that the purposes of the law - enforcement program that have been carried out over the past loss of human needs are not met, but it indicates that much more is needed throughout the country. In fact, the number of police in the north and south countries has to be reduced because of a well - related maintenance requirement. It's a terrible situation, and it's not consistent with the reality we live in with increasing tourist currents. We must pay attention to the staff needs of the State Marshal and assume increased expenses to the police so that we can secure public safety. The same could be said of the administrative institutions, which were united, but at the same time brought about a problem of business, which took place in all the few offices. This has not been the case with what was to be followed, i.e. to strengthen their office so that they would be better equipped to do their job. On behalf of the newly formed Ministry of Justice, it has been observed that there is a need for drastic action in order to further the embassies, but, unfortunately, this is not within the budget. If there is no increase in financial contributions, the drastic measures will include other than information and a reduction in the number of work stations that would be very unfortunate, especially for the inhabitants of the country where there are important services to be done in the vicinity of the community. ... intheformateofthe Countymen. The same can be said of Persian protection. Its projects have tripled, but contributions have taken place since 2003. Human protection has requested 95 million. K. additional advance to the ahead of you, including The introduction of a major European environmental protection legislation, but this is not expected. Of course, it is unacceptable that an institution cannot carry out its duties as it should. National rights work will have a significant impact on the financial environment of the courts where 600 billion will be expected. in his business every year. This is more than the amount of expenses that will be raised each year during the programme period. I have a few pills in my opinion to back it up. Some last points, a respectable president. Despite the approval of the General Assembly, the fund for the construction of a Museum of Nature is not expected. I'd also like to say that putting culture, art, and youth together as a part of the plan is a double matter. It's kind of opaque. I think it's important that we make youthful affairs high, including those involved in strengthening the juvenile democracies and their votes. Then, at the end of the tour. We need to develop aerodynamic reserve so that we can keep off the flight from Keflavík to the international airport. We have a city line plan to make. Although she's been up for quite a while, it's special that she doesn't see her schedule. That's surprising. The European Union has made comments to the government's regional strategy, that it lacks vision for the jury, and how to enforce it. I'll probably have to come up with something else I'd like to talk to but I'd like to say that, in the end, although I'd like to say that even though I've brought a lot of disappointment in the government's plans for financing public operations over the duration of the fiscal budget, and unfortunately, an elder's insistence on these matters, the majority of the government's revenue is far too tight. For these reasons, the strength of the State and the community to serve citizens and to build up for the welfare of the time and the future is less than reason. There has been no new scope for social building, and the tax and expenditures of the richest community have been reduced in ways that have resulted in a total of 2,530 billion dollars on a yearly basis that could have been used to reform and build up for society. How we as a community decide to conduct our affairs is also a decision to build up a community. Left green wants the objective and purpose of government funds to ensure all the opportunities to enjoy themselves in the community and that everyone is loyal to a decent standing. It can be done through financial and financial policies that aim to increase the balance in society by obtaining a legitimate wealth of income that will later be used to promote health services, education systems, welfare systems, to build up infrastructure, and to ensure the most sensitive groups decently. In view of what I've traced, the 1st small part of the adjustment proposals on the income and remuneration sides are moving in order to meet the basic needs of the community. I'm going to read a paper with the revised proposal based on the government budget that we left green forward when we went to our campaign in the fall of 2016. The report reads, with the permission of the president: To serve the goals for the growth of important infrastructure, including the EEA's Environment Programme (UNEP) and the EEA's Environment Programme (EEC) and the World Health Organization (EEC). The construction of health, education, and transportation sectors provide opportunities for improving the quality of the poor and the elderly, as well as improvements in housing and family affairs, needs to expand its budget and increase their income. This suggests a somewhat higher income raise than is the increase in spending, especially in the front of time. This results in more share of the state funds management of about 0.5% of GDP during the first two years of the period than any less. This emphasis has the important economic objective of working against the growth and support of the currency, making it easier for the growth reduction. Based on the vague basis of the government budget and the omission of the country, a lower portion feels inevitable that instead of the disintegrated expenditures in the current programme, the frame will be all grown to meet a significant need. Then there will be the implementation of the framework accompanied by work on a budget bill that takes into account the need for spending. A respectable president. This may be what has been going on in the criticism of the councils of the government, and not just the government opposition, including those of the government, about the indecision that makes it impossible to understand but some. Despite the fact that we have prayed for and had one thing and another cut apart, this form is something that we need to go over better in order to make the next effort far more clear than has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is extensive, and so is the committee. I can agree with much of what they say. I'm particularly concerned about health care in the country if I follow this national budget plan, but there are other things, of course, and I agree with them. A senator listed transportation, education, and other subjects of disabled people and others. A surgeon has criticized the handling of matters and, in fact, critical agreements with specialists and the effect of the contracting process and the arrangement for the service of patients at the Land Hospital, which is also true of the Akureyri Hospital. The McKinsey report, published not long ago, last year, also refers to a problem in the area. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she feels that special measures need to be taken, and if this does not mean that when changing policies, the National Hospital needs to be funded. How can you tell? A senator responding to national surgeon and the McKinsey report on the management of the Land Hospital in a financial program? This is a major concern regarding the safety of patients and the lives and members of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u43	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I sure agree. We went to a presentation when Mckinsey's report was presented on the state of the Land Hospital. It is clear that in order to attract the doctors to full - time hospital, we need to strengthen our university hospital because, as we have seen, one of the biggest weaknesses of the hospital is how few doctors are in the full - time ministry and are practicing a lot of private pizzas. I think that's one of the things to look at. Of course, this means nothing more than less money for the hospital's special expenses and more money. I'd like to see it. Although it is good to negotiate with specialists through health insurance, we also see how that item has grown and followed prices while the hospitals have not had the same situation. I think we have to accept this as the discussion we've had here on decommissioning services and even building a private hospital, which means that the best bites are taken, and then the Landspiter needs the hospital or the hospital incident at Akureyri or what it is always being on the rear shift. Of course, that is not acceptable. As I said in my speech, it's already there, and you don't understand when they're talking about even the Landsspians not telling the truth and the right thing when they're shooting their numbers. It has been shown in annual accounts that the hospital is expelled for the same amount as at the beginning of the century. Of course, it must be a miracle that this can be done, except for a number of patients. Of course, nursing homes are in hand with the fact that the Land Hospital is really equipped to carry all these individuals inside because they are not responding to other parts of the system unless they are in a personal position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u44	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. A senator criticized, as we have all done in the budget and financial advisers, and others have also made the statement that the financial program is not clear and that it needs to be corrected. It is hard to grasp exactly what is being said or what is behind the numbers. I agree with what. A senator says that there is an increase in expenses and especially in the areas where the public has called strong after the need to respond, and I agree. A senator's need for more money is increased, and it needs to be more than smaller in the period of filing in order to have tables for food. But I can't help but criticize them. A senator for the adjustment proposal that she proposes to the very same thing as I criticize the administrative point with an indiscriminate financial program. I would have wanted better explanations on where to take my income and put it in what categories and in at least proportion to distribute it. Now I want to ask you why. A senator whether it can, in short answer, inform us who will take a stand on the changing proposal where to reach the amount of money submitted. I don't suppose I will. A senator has time to share his expenses as well. I'm going to ask the senator to put his money first in his answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u45	Mr. President. You can be sure that this can be described as omnipresent. I don't think I'd have been able to do this in any other way. However, I feel that there is a responsibility for having a breakdown in income and expenses when we really do not have complete access to this. At least I can tell you what. A senator says that we have been discussing income taxes, i.e. step-separated income tax system. We've talked about a wealth tax, resource expenditure, capital tax, carbon tax, travel fees, tax returns, sugar tax, etc. This is not new to the issue of left greens, and it in itself has not changed since we were in the government where we would like to take our income and put it down. We have to face the fact that the budget is set up in a way that allows for a set group of lawsuits. Maybe we'd like to make some changes there, like. with a group of cases instead of reassigning everything as it is now. The time we had to win this was far too small to make significant comments. We wanted like a dog. A senator knows the importance of health and welfare, education and cultural matters, housing and family matters, infrastructure, development cooperation, and god knows what we've done many times before. and I traced it back to my opinion that my opinion indicates where we think it is possible to carry down on both sides, i.e. In income and fees. Of course, it can be reasoned that it could have been made otherwise, but we don't really feel that it's our job to be devastated by a proposal that we don't have the financial agenda of the right government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u46	A respectable president. Here are some interesting tips and points that I think we need to discuss. Now that the government's policy is to emphasize health issues. This emphasis seems to be almost exclusively confined to the construction of a new hospital. If the stock costs and costs outside the box are withdrawn, then the priority for health care is 8.8%, which is somewhat below the economic climate of 14.5%. In view of the greater part, it is also said that negotiations with expert physicians need to be reviewed. This points directly to a surgeon who speaks of the threat to the safety of patients because of the difficulty in man's land hospital and hospital at Akureyri Experts. So I think we need to discuss this part of financial planning very seriously and how we are going to handle these matters in the years ahead. This problem needs to be solved. The other problem, which I think we need to focus on, is the fact that one of the basic financial programmes is going on and on. Now it's been up by 11è12% to the U.S. dollars since the project was submitted. That requirement is completely gone. We had no graph analysis or anything about how we would affect the financial program if we were growing stronger or weak and what about 113/412% was involved. So I believe that many of the conditions for financial programmes are broken off. I don't know who because there is no analysis on the effect of success development on these issues. I'd like to start this discussion in the opposite direction. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I can agree that the problems we face with hospitals in many parts of the country, with nurses'wages, and so forth are important too. It tells us something about people not going into the Land Hospital. If graduates or students do not want to go there, certain factors need to be resolved. We need to solve the emergency, stress, and pay issues. We don't do that by adding further to the agreements of expert physicians, I think it's perfectly clear. If that's what the greater part applies to its members when it comes to reviewing agreements with specialists, I agree with that. I think most people realize that it can't work like this. However, they draw attention to the answers as a matter of course. The chairman of the legal committee gave this point when he spoke of controlling the Land Hospital, that it was not because of lack of trust but because they should be supportive. You have certain ideas that there may be a way to monitor. I think the Landspians did a hell of a good job on financial management and showed it when he put out evidence. Everything else that we've got in our hands is supposed to be the same well, all the things I quoted earlier, for example, about the money he's been fired on, and a government review has confirmed it in a government account. Whatever the picture is, whether it is related or not, it can be difficult to deal with. Some forecasts could be made ahead of the fact that walking was this way or a gay one, but it may be difficult to do so. But there's a whole range of imaging analyses missing in all aspects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u48	A respectable president. Admittedly, it is a problem that we do not even know what to look at when the underlying factors change in the way they walk today. When I see myself getting stronger or weak, I should be able to go straight to the program to monitor these factors, whether we have a diagnosis of which direction to develop or not; these are risk factors or something similar. It would be very interesting to get comments from the highest level. The secretary of finance on these matters, in view of how this has changed since financial planning was established and how our prospects are now if the change is so high. This is not a small change or a flutter. We're talking about 110-12%. Other topic areas, as usual. A senator came into the university, was a university case, but in the majority of them, it is said that there is a 7.7% rise in school level and does not cover the proposals promised in the Technical and Scientific Fund. Now, there is a new plan to be made. She was supposed to run out in the spring months. I haven't seen her appear yet. It would also be interesting to know whether financial plans are taken into account in that work. You can't see anything about it in the financial program itself. As I said before, the contributions planned for college are far below the projection of economic growth that we must have. We must therefore prioritize these seminars, hospital services, university, and secondary high school levels, much lower than we have ever done. We are downplaying their impact on the economic growth we are sharing in the ministry that we provide.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u49	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is true that since we live in the currency we live in, it would be wise to have some of these diagnostics. Like what? A senator mentioned them as having nothing to do with this success, and of course we would need more. We know that there should be both a positive and a negative effect on the various categories of subjects. Drug buy, for example, should be able to maintain a positive outlook in this context, but another negative factor may outweigh. The college donations are disappointing, but the retreat is so often forgotten when we are talking about an increase in the number of lawsuits. Schools have not been set for maintenance until now, and it is up to 2%, and it matters when the result is taken out. I mentioned the law enforcement officers back then, who are also subject to an increased demand. Then these additional financial items, which are intended for it, do not go to the amount of people that might have been expected. The same can be said of schools. They are not making themselves strong, as it is suggested in the text, when this handler is discovered. I thought it'd be nice to see that the more part of a budget board suggested that the schools didn't have to subject themselves to this, they were taken out of parentheses, I think I'm right. I think we need to think about that. There was no change from the highest, either. For example, a minister to us regarding the decision that a judge's pay will be decided on. Yet, the entire language area is still being held, and it is up to an elected judge to rise. It doesn't work out. That's for sure. That means an enormous cutback in the topic field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u50	V.E.G. President. I give an opinion on a proposal for a resolution on a budget plan for 2018/2022 from the 2nd smaller parts of the budget board. Ideas behind financial programmes are beginning to be developed on the basis of agreed financial policy, for 34 topic areas up to the next five years, followed by a financial bill. Economic and financial policies need to be fully compatible. The budget should be set up in a clear, transparent fashion and should also be fully in accordance with official financial legislation which has a baseline level of self-sustaining, carefulness, stability, firmness and transparency. The priorities of the government's activities should be based on careful needs analysis as well as profit calculations, assessments of the impact of the economy, and multiple effects. Predictions that are used fundamentally need to reflect what is actually to be foretold. The objective of the government must be clear, objective, and measurable. If not, it will cause the transparency and create a problem and an increasing uncertainty about the government. A number of projects mentioned in the government financial program, such as the rapid growth of the tourism service, the success of the crown, the excitement of the work market, the rise in housing markets, and the impact of aging on the nation, will require extensive visual analysis and evaluation of their impact. The budget does not meet the above criteria for transparency, analysis and impact assessments and, in addition, predictors of those proposed are inadequate. In the opinion of the Council of Economic Affairs from April 14 on a proposal for Congress on Budget Plans, it is noted that the lack of a work programme is inadequate, i.e. at baseline there is insufficient evidence of work, work, work, and coverage of the plan. It is not clear whether the material presented in financial policy will be followed up in the plan or if there are important issues in the off policy programme. Also found were criticism, on the part of financial council and Government Reviews, at meetings with the Committee, that presentation is not good enough. For example, numbers are not divided by investments, and the cost of operating is under control. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the budget board, in line with the majority opinion of the legal committee. This needs fixing. They pointed out that it was desirable to see pooled social security numbers, i.e. to explain the situation and changes in expenses. The forwarding representative of the 2nd class agrees with this criticism of the development of financial programs. V.E.G. President. I don't have time in this talk on the committee opinion to review every subject, so that doesn't have enough time. So I'll highlight some chosen areas for this time but expect to review more topics in a discussion over the subject in the next few days. I'm going to start by reviewing the range 06, cost report, etc. Clearly, the combination of predictions and policy needs to be kept in mind. The economic forecasts of the Habitat proposed for financial policy do not have the ability to identify how a new financial policy will affect economic development. Sports and projections must be carried out in order to determine the progress of economic policy. There is no such work in the administration system now, and financial and economic services are desirable to take on the project to increase transparency and awareness in policy development. Thus, the Ministry receives increased political responsibility for key decisions and their economic significance, which are key. The State budget says that maintenance in the past, in parallel with the decline, is reduced, but not adjusted for the economy. It would be preferable to aim at the economy - corrected element to match the maintenance phase, such as both financial advisers and Iceland's Secretary Bank. It is noteworthy that the government of money and money does not share in valuation. From April 14 onward, the financial adviser points out that a single effort could be made in modeling and projections that are behind the evaluation of economic and economic standards. All of Iceland's top analysts use the Iceland Seðla Bank model for their projection. Predictions will be uniform, and a model is not designed to provide national forecasts to support the development of financial policy. I agree that there is a need for a new order in this regard. Madam President. Under the influence of many financial claims, there is a lack of analysis, both in the opinion of the State's Accounting and the financial Council. It's, for example. it is not easy to see how domestic demand will continue to advance economic growth as planned. In an economic forecast to the core of the programme, soft landings are expected after the current level of expansion. The economy does not support the premise, so it would be desirable for governments to determine the risks and the analyses of other parties, as required in the official financial laws. I agree with these indications, since it is serious to build long - term budgets for the state's funds on which public financial laws are established. Let's do a little tax coverage, paint range 05, and then travel service, sector 14. The financial programme presents changes in the valuable tax system where hosting services and other tourism-related activities move from lower levels to a global level of worthy tax, from 11% to 24%, July 1, 2018. After the change in the value tax, the fact is that Iceland's tourism collects one of the highest taxes compared to the competitive countries. Clearly, this will affect the article, and especially since the cost has been greatly strengthened during the past 18 months. In view of the World Bank Fund of February 28, 2017, the importance of the competitiveness of the environment and the sustainableness of the sector is highlighted in the World Bank. A planned increase will reduce the competitiveness of tourism. According to stakeholders' review, no formal consultation with the parties in travel services was made regarding these changes in the value tax. A review by the European Commission of April 28, asks that the proposed change in cost taxes will be fully reduced. Refer include: in order to reduce the competitiveness of the article and to reduce the losses of the enterprises due to agreements on fixed prices in foreign currency. Since 2017 and 2018, the number of birthdays has already declined. SAF points out that the most negative effects are occurring in the country. I strongly criticize that governments have not clearly identified the impact on business, including business affairs. from their location. It is clear that the increase in cost taxation in tourism is mistaken for the present situation and poorly prepared. V.E.G. According to the latest news and discussion at the council yesterday, the prime minister seems to be beginning to realize this. It is obvious that the government groups are not intervening in this matter, and I also refer to the review of more of the legal committees. Therefore, it is as if this decision is not to be carried out. But if they do, then the financial plan, as it is, is priceless. What will the government do? The case is from A to A, willing and more willing. In terms of tax recovery, e.g. ...and changes in the state's budget, to increase the income of the state's funds, and I refer to the review of the representative of the Annexe Party of the Economic and Business Committee. However, the majority of the legal committee appear to be in a similar direction in their review of the matter, i.e. In accordance with part of the sector's sector of revenue. On the other hand, the advance party completely rejects the government's concept of personalization at Leifs son of Erik's Air Station. It's a bad idea, and it's a dangerous idea. According to the financial Council, there is uncertainty about national conditions and lack of adequate analysis for the basis of the proposed treasurance of tax changes. We criticize the decrease in the upper level of cost-employment tax compared to the current economic and economic expansion. The media wants a public health tax laid down. Incomes from the tax are used for public health and health services, including health care, as well as for the building up of health care services. to reduce the costs of dental care for the elderly and to reduce the roof of patient payment. Now, I'm going to cover areas 12 and 13, farms and fishing grounds. Several goals are to be overcome but not set out to include a few goals. Instead, a project is spoken of as being funded within the framework. In view of the 2% per year requirement, it is clear that the necessary crisis is not met. Don't lie, for example. for how to strengthen the Food Institute. The same applies to the Oceanographic Institute. The budget says there are no plans for a new ocean study ship. The seabed is one of our basic work branches. Of course, it is not possible to continue on this journey and starve a Marine Research Institute. We say our system builds on sustainable fishing based on scientific research, but at the same time, there is no funding for the practice of scientific research as required, and this is often used for years of well - chosen statistics. It's completely impossible. The same applies to the Food Institute. We demand security and monitoring for food production, but we don't make financial contributions to the projects to be carried out by our surveillance agency. What is it? These things need to be examined and made necessary changes. Let's move on to rural areas and settlements, stage 008. It is extensive, as can be seen from all of them, incorporated reports from rural communities and the national community. The share of rural society as part of public management has increased substantially over the last two to three decades, especially as a result of transport of projects from the State. How important it is, then, that we put more emphasis on the survival of a community than before, as is the case with official financial laws! A government review concluded that the real status of a local partner needs to be reflected in a financial programme and that it is possible for them to pay in debt. A report by the European Union's 26th - April United States states: "The United States is a member of the United States of America. " that the relationship pointed out in its review of financial policy from February 17 that it believed that the purpose of the success of the financial policy is unrealistic and out of harmony with the adopted local financial programmes. The relationship also criticizes the lack of consultation with the development of financial criteria for the survival and economy of rural society. The share-of-the-art share of the financial programme is different from the ones that come up in financial policy without identifying them in financial abnormalities. During 2017 and 2018, a financial plan is expected to be less effective in rural society than in financial policy, but better produced by 2020/022. As with other aspects of the financial programme, such as chapter five, which deals with rural financial matters, there has been no consultation with the relationship. I strongly criticize the lack of communication with the European Union and the preconceived conditions proposed to the elements of society's survival. A review of the European Union's member states gives rise to the lack of focus on rural politics in the financial program. Among the reasons are the development of rural development, changes in national and rural activities, and increased consultation with policy-makers. However, there is no forward vision for the group and no explanation of the means to achieve a set goal. There is a lack of community discussion. Long-term application initiatives are not included in financial programmes. Such long-term funding uncertainty is unacceptable. The energy issues are number 15. It is difficult to see how the government intends to secure the national energy security, including to meet other programmes, as shown in a synopsis of energy change, let alone a project to speed up the development of electricity, which should be completed 2034 according to current programmes, and is of utmost importance for modern employment on the whole country, where all larger devices are built in trispiration. There is also an interesting project to increase the share of thermal and heat sources to reduce the energy costs of cold areas and/or reduce the use of diesel generators. The media criticize this government's priorities because it does not show any willingness to settle the existing conditions and support the development of employment throughout the country. For transport and communications, it is said that the schedule does not identify the timing of key investments, but it refers only to government priorities without logical support. At a meeting of the General Assembly and the Council of Economic Affairs, it was found that there are no studies available on the potential for a variable product effect on national activities. The members of a financial body felt that there were no grounds or information to make such observations. In our opinion, the decision to set priorities should be made to look to national interest, which involves far more factors than conventional interest calculations. In its review of April 26, the firms of industry state that it is important to hold back the government's growth but at the same time cannot be overlooked by the urgent needs of investments in the infrastructure. The public level of investment is low, and the result is that it reduces the competitiveness of society. It is important to start the preparation and design so that there can be a start at a time when space is created. At a meeting with representatives of the Industrial Association came even. up to now there was little work to be done on aquifers due to a low construction level on road construction and activation projects. There is a lack of analysis of the implantation status. The organization intends to improve this in cooperation with Advertising Directors' Fégour and to report that the Norwegian role model will be named, by permission of the President, is the firm of Nations. We believe it is critical that the government did not have such a report made together with work in a financial programme involving a plan for the next five years. The structure of the infrastructure is closely linked to the competitiveness of the country. It is disappointing that financial programmes are not expected to meet the needs of transport reforms all over the country. An attempt is not made to correct the inconsistencies between transport programmes and the financial programmes for transport. There would be room for transport workers if the government would reduce financial support, but it is now 2% in most areas. The environment is among all the most important issues of the next few decades. The importance of the group is not reflected in a financial plan, unfortunately. This group of paintings goes up about 1 billion dollars. between 2017 and 2018, then they decrease between 2018 and 2018. It is not acceptable for a government who claims to put climate issues first. The programme lists targets and measures and dates, but costs are not unique. However, the total cost to the topic range will be at the end of the study, i.e. Plans from 20181⁄2022. This is an incomplete presentation, and it is clear that financial support is not accompanied by the urgent task being faced. Investment in education and research is an investment into the future. The plan of the budget gives evidence that the present government is not going to be guided by that statement. The college and the college levels will not be extended, as promised for elections. This is a major concern and critical, contrary to the promises made by the government groups, all as one, before elections. In a financial program adopted for the year 2017●2021, contributions to high school would be expected to rise by 3.2 billion dollars. the absolute value of time, or equivalent to nearly 12% of physical growth. At the same time, significant business savings were expected in the high school system because of reduced study periods from four to three years. The plan assumed that all the savings that fell to shortening would remain within the system and be about to further increase the high school level. This is not the case in a new financial program. These contributions are reduced from what was previously planned so that 2018 will remain real, but slightly reduced thereafter, or about 0.6% per year, corresponding to 630 million. K. ... accumulatedovertime. Savings that will be the shorthand for study for a student's exam from four years to three will be taken from the high schools across the bounds. There would have been every reason to make use of the space to improve the work and to-do in line with the financial goals set out in the budget. It would also have been possible to make more use of our time to support seniors and to ensure the introduction of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People at High School. We advanceers express significant disappointments with the broken promises of the government's changing funds to the high school from the previous financial program. And the disappointment continues, Madam President. The rate of contributions to the university is estimated to increase by 41.6 billion. In 2017, over 44 billion dollars. During the planned period. There's the largest project ever done, but the estimated cost of construction is 3.7 billion. in 2017/2021. Already given 600 million. K. because of design and previous invitations for the project. Iceland's university will pay 30%, but it's estimated that the state fund pays 70%. Thus, the actual growth of the project is expected to be about 8%, i.e. 3.2 billion k. during the period. A review by the student council of the University of Iceland of May 4 states: A Council of Students also believes that by means of contributions to university, contributions are considered to be made to the construction of Hussequera, the loan fund of Icelandic students, and the building of new professional schools. Despite increases in the entire group of litigators, it is clear that contributions to university institutions will not increase to a significant extent until 2019. A smaller section emphasizes the criticism of the production of a financial programme, which is, at best, highly misleading because of the constant mixing of business and investment costs. The colleges have noted that after a collapse, the university was severely and permanently cut. In the end of the election, there was much discussion about increased contributions to the university and all political groups focused on increased contributions to the seminary. For example, in the election effort of the Independence Party, there was a promise to increase contributions to the university to the average OECD country. This is not part of the financial agenda, nor can it be viewed as different from the fact that the voters have been deceived in considering the framework set by the university level in the program. The industrial organization claims that since April 26, there are concerns about major offenses in the collection and publication of educational and human educational data. The financial agenda does not show the need to correct it. Some of these studies are mandatory in Iceland, but they don't. We agree with this view of the Industrial Association and stress the need to increase the number of students. On the contrary, according to the financial strategy presented, there is no evidence that governments intend to promote an increase in the number of students who study at the same time. A new creation policy is urgent so that a society will be competitive for the future. In a financial program, there is little effort to deal with the need for targeted and practical research and innovation, since the implementation of innovation policy policies is very vague. Yet, all agree on the need to expand their innovation into the nation's commercial affairs. The share of the international sector needs to be enlarged and the number of paid jobs that require education. The company of industry and others criticize this government's policylessness in research and innovation. The advance team has always put much emphasis on academic matters in its policy as education and research are the future passports of the nation. Thus, financial plans do not reflect forethought or ambition in this regard, and that is unfortunate. It is also a key matter of advancement, and it has always been, but one of the party's slogans has been. be worth more than riches, and we do. So we strongly criticize the handling of financial programs in the areas of well - being. The emphasis here is not in our spirit. Socialism is absent in this financial program. The present government is a glass - hard government, and so it may not be easy to expect. But it's very sad. If a government budget is agreed unchanged, the U.S. Presidents believe that the cost of domestic hospitals has to be cut down by about 5 billion dollars. During the period of the programme, compared with new projects set in the schedule, but not in the rest of the work programme. I refer to the review of the 25th April Hospital. According to Land Hospital leaders, this means that the additional amount of money proposed in the programme seems largely gained by canceling the funding of existing and continuing to exist. In addition, there are some of these new projects, which will include only partial financial contributions. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Note that there is no provision for new building on Ring Road or the necessary rebuilding of the elderly hospital houses. Both are essential to the completion of a new treatment core and to study houses in 2023, as the financial programme emphasizes. A review by the head of the Akureyri Hospital says that there is a limited increase in funds to meet the need for increased service and the necessary structure for services within the hospitals. According to their sources, there is an actual increase to the topic range of about 338 million in the period. Within this amount, there is a minimal increase in the number of businesses and market costs, and it is difficult to see how the increase in services and development of hospital functions will be met. We are concerned with the presidents of the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital and other health officials throughout the country. We strongly criticize and strongly repulsively reluctance this government budget, as well as mixing stock and management costs. It gives a very wrong view of the situation. Under this topic area, number 24, health care, specialised care and nursing, physical therapy, physical therapy, and speech training, as well as physical transportation, and I would like to discuss it. According to the new health insurance laws, the Service Management Board, health care is the first stop for patients. In the material development of the situation within the welfare committee last summer, concern over whether the care of the health - care provider was prepared for this important role. In the progress of the matter, it was decided to place an extra amount of money, 300◯400 million, into the medical facility to strengthen it in this role, and that was done. On the other hand, if this new role of health care is to be fulfilled, more needs to be done. This is emphasized by the Fund's Group and the national health care and the way to promote it both in health care and in the education of health care professionals. We were critical of the cohesive cost and cost of operating at the topic area. It's always the same story through. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 For example, the construction of a medical facility in the capital area is mixed with the operating costs of health institutions. The government's treatment of the payment system is terrible, but we need to look to the future, and we advanceers strongly stress that the next step will be taken in order to improve the payment system. We want a timetable and a practical schedule for the duration of the programme and how dental costs, psychological costs, and increased support for the travel costs of patients below the payment system. In addition, a panel of conventions wants to schedule a time when the pharmaceutical and health costs will fit into one fair system. It is important that all of these measures be clearly identified and completely financed. In accordance with the national budget, contributions to the 25th sector are expected. Nurse and rehabilitation services, increase 4.9 billion and five new nursing homes will be restored at the time of the programme. On page 18. It will be a total of 319 quarters, 261 new homes, and on page 68. The 306 in the same schedule shows that there are 292 nurses who do not have the number. This is an inconsistencies within the same financial program, and we think it is unacceptable to conclude that there is a conflicting message about the course. We also believe that this plan, regardless of which number is correct, is far from meeting demand in the years to come, including due to the increased numbers of elderly and pre-existing efflux problems. We candidates would like to be looked after for the care of residents in nursing homes and homes in accordance with their services. The applicant party feels it is wise that Iceland is involved in an increase in the Norwegian trade of drugs and thus gain access to larger markets and new and better drugs. It is unacceptable that Iceland will again be reduced with regard to the induction of new drugs that have already been approved elsewhere in the North countries. This area of media uses financial resources, especially in the face of rapid progress and increasing numbers of elderly ones. This is a wonderful flaw in which financial plans are a budget for the next five years. Hence, basic candidates for large lawsuits must be as true as they are, but they are not. So you ask yourself again: " Is there something in the budget? The answer is no - unfortunately. I'm gonna run over here, there's so much to take. I have to do a lot more talks, looks like, today. Interior Ministers submitted to the General Assembly of 141 legislatures, 20123/42013, a preliminary work report relating to the basic rights of law enforcement in Iceland and the implementation of a law enforcement program for Iceland. The Commission was formed on the basis of Congress resolution on the basic provision of law enforcement in Iceland and the implementation of a legal program for Iceland adopted at the General Assembly of June 19, 2012. There is no definition of the police's human resources or financial needs in the financial programme for 2018/22022. The results of the above-mentioned interim report to the Council are especially thought to be of a great need, and the conclusion was that the police have to be minimum of 880, as well as the estimated cost of their proliferation and the necessary equipment measures were set. That's a very long way to go by the contribution plan. Another major flaw has to do with the growth of trustees in Iceland. It is quite anticipated that there will also be a huge hole in relation to what is to be expected in real life. According to this, my conclusion is that everything is missing in the financial program, where it is almost impossible to figure out what budget is expected to achieve the target set. Also, stock costs and cost are mixed up in many places, providing a very rough picture. A lower section criticizes the high financial standards set out in 2018/2022, but now the budget is 1.5% left over. We recommend that the device be reduced by 0.5% percent, i.e. down to one percent of the budget. This change should be given to the State Fund by about 10◯12 billion dollars. A little extra a year. We candidates agree that it is important to continue paying off the debt of state funds and thus cover interest costs, but in many areas, building infrastructure, such as the educational system, transportation, and the welfare systems, is increasing. The longer term damage to Iceland's competitiveness will be caused by infrastructures. Changes in the tax system are underestimated, poorly prepared, and without consultation with important stakeholders. Obviously, it does not seem to be at peace within the government. This is a strange case from A to O. Therefore, the basis for what is called on the long-term government programme is very ill. Inconsistencies between financial policy and financial programmes, however, are uncertain whether public financial laws are being carried out that are serious. Thus, the financial program is against all reproach and unfaithfulness. According to this, a representative of the forwarding party in 2 less part suggests that the budget will be rejected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u51	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. It will be said that the advance party has escaped the curses of the right catch in the country, and it's good on this beautiful summer day. Hv. The senator mentioned the requirement of maintenance to 1.5% of the budget, thinking that it is too tight. We worry that there are overcrowded frames and that nothing can be moved. Now we may be at the top of an advantage, and under those circumstances, there seems to be nothing that can be done to build wood. How, then, will things be compared to the fact that they have made a lot of money in a state - of - income firm when we go back to something that can be expected on a normal year trip? [[The president calls.]] If that is not the case, how can we keep to the inside of society?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u52	V.E.G. President. It is only hope. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir wants to see this. When things aren't going well, there's no money for anything, but when things go well, you have to watch your spell so you don't blow it up. It's hard to do. As mentioned in my speech earlier, in discussions within the committee, and also in managers, nothing is being done too high in all the land. What we're looking at is the need to establish the analysis of different positions according to national parts of the country - where the dog is buried. As the industrial organizations pointed out, the level of construction is low on aquifers and activation projects. Indeed, we can take up assignments in many parts of the earth, the necessary tasks that await us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u53	Madam President. That is absolutely true, there are more than one economic region in the country and in many parts of the country, it is as if it should never be done at all, since it is either too much thin or a recession in the country, and of course it will bite on weak areas in the country. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with ideas of sales and personal development at the air station, how she likes that privatization. Is this not an ongoing tendency to sell dairy cows and then to stand up, as the right men have been doing in many places about economic control, whether in rural society or elsewhere? In regard to the idea of putting political government over the Hospital, is there an effort to end some of the discussions and criticisms that have come from the health authorities at the Land Hospital, that the funds they are intended to provide for normal health developments? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u54	A respectable president. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson earlier, president of the budget board, regarding the idea of the privateisation of the base, that it would naturally be examined. I say on behalf of advance, some ideas are just bad. It's obvious. It doesn't really need one. If people want to spend their time in some diagnostic and viewpoints, we say, "We must have something better to do with time. " This is a bad idea, and progress strongly opposes this idea, and it advises the government to organize national infrastructure, not to the private access of Leifs Erik's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u55	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for her business and agrees with a large number of factors presented in her minority home party. I mention, for example, that with the management of money and money money, people are not intertwining in valuation. I also agree with what she said about the emphasislessness of the fiscal government, environmental finance, etc. Because the one here is sitting on a financial and business committee that makes up the state fund on her own, I'd like to hear some more ideas. A senator for the government's revenues. It comes on ideas in a minority party of night. A senator, such as for the sake of reimbursement and change of the host's fee, as well as the public health tax. I'd like to hear more of the senator's ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u56	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to say, how deep I can go for a transfer of this tax system. But now there's a bill from what. paritaprevir Ingi Jóhannsson's Sigurður over return charges. It does well to review how we see the pressures of a coming fee and its implementation. We see the public health tax in such a way that it will be put on sugar and that the income it would make would, for example, be in promoting health care and especially dental services for the elderly, i.e. that there is a purpose and a vision for such a tax system. As I said before, we'd like to reduce the requirements. That would give us very many billions of necessary billions, which we could use to build up on infrastructure, many of which have become very ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, as we agree, that tax recovery is always with some objective in order to form the public health tax. There are so many uncertainty factors in this financial program that it would be unstable to cross them all together. I find these suggestions a smaller portion of the budget board, to lower the requirement, very interesting, even though we all agree to pay off debt. Hv. A senator comes into education in his opinion. They are a real concern. I agree with that. A senator that the college and the college seniors won't all be what they promised before the election. What a reproach it is that these promises are not respected and that they do not appear in this financial program! I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator of the savings that fell to the shortening, how he should have stayed within the system, and so on. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if she can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u58	V.E.G. President. It is clear tomorrow that the promises have been betrayed. It was very clear during the last term in terms of short term study, and it was reviewed in many good speeches, that the savings should remain within the stage. But it isn't. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, we progress to see that the funds that should have been in there should be primarily for training. It's very urgent - it's shown in some reviews and discussions with the Committee and not only with discussions about financial agendas but also about financial policies and budgets - that we need to promote engineering, training, here on the country to be competitive. This is what all classes seem to be talking about. This financial program has nothing to do with that. You know, you're not just thinking, you'd be too lenient to words, you know, but you're a huge disappointment. This is a very dangerous course we have in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u59	A respectable president. I came in here only in the last answer that the surgeon said the safety of a patient was threatened. Then I find it interesting to study the financial program and see an 8.8% increase in hospital service. I can't see that there's an answer to the concerns of a surgeon. I think we should do better with these tips. We should run up to our hands and feet and save what will be saved if the safety of the patients is threatened. But then I wanted to come in again. We've talked a lot about a better process. A senator mentioned it exactly, a new and better career for the financial program. We are relearning laws on public financial matters. How could a financial programme, e.g. Have you been on a better route of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. We're in the same place about the business at Land Hospital and financing for the next year. Of course, we should listen to the directors of the agency. They must know the situation. But, surely, during the last term, significant amounts of money were added to the health system, both for equipment and for management, but nothing is done. That's not enough. We must continue on this journey. The current financial agenda does not indicate that this is a policy. I'm really worried about this, and I'm worried about it as much as I am. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir told me earlier, I think it was her, about the government of the Land Hospital. I feel the same way. You wonder, " What is the point? ' I'd be interested to hear it from a member of the council perhaps after how the administrative body sees it and what should be accomplished by appointing a special government over the Hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u61	A respectable president. Now it is not just the hospital government that warns us about this. It's our primary patrol, a health care provider, a surgeon who points out this. All red flags should rise when surgeon generals say safety of patients is threatened. I also want to reiterate that I am a certain discrepancy between the way the Allied Council provides a means of transportation that is unsaturable and then we'll work out a financial program that may meet or finance a transport plan, not in this case. How can we make this work better? Should the transport program not really be part of the financial process, allowing us to determine how much of the transport plan we are using and how much more enlightened a part of our work is in financial planning?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u62	A respectable president. Yes, what needs to be done is harmony in other areas, both between transport and financial programmes as well as with the local communities as we've discussed with the budget board. These plans are in their own box, but they all fall under the same package. There are different periods, three years of time, and that is a five-year period. That's what's going to happen. I understand that so far there's always been a discrepancy between budget and transport, but now we're working in another environment. We aim to achieve more discipline and solidarity in government matters. Of course, we need to take the discussion much further on how we are going to bring these plans into harmony so that they are realistic and that we can achieve the goals we are going to achieve with regard to social security and stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the material in this big case. Still, I would like to respond to what she says because the form of the talk is called "Answer. " First, I'd like to point out that the subject on investment points and the acquiring of information about it is discussed in the majority of our aluminium levels. With the initiative of the legislature committees Trausti Friðbertsson and Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir, a certain work was started on that basis. I would like to ask the senator to react to the question of whether they are being approached at the task and her attitude toward it. It presents the view of reducing the maintenance phase. Now we've been rather criticized for not having enough money to keep. I'd mainly like to ask her about the effect of relaxing the state's maintenance of interest in the welfare and economic development of the next month if we went to the proposal she made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for answering me. Among the things that are good in the majority of the legal committees - there are many good things to do - this is a suggestion. And I'm glad it's out there. As I noted in my speech earlier, circumstances vary greatly between parts of the country. I know we what we're doing. The manager agrees. So it's very good that we do this and that we keep working with these things. In this new environment, all of us are working under official financial laws. This is one of the things we need to consider. I'm glad this came out, and there are many good tips in the majority view. Some of the things that we read there may have come from forwarders. It was only good when I read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u65	A respectable president. I decided that in his talk about our meditation, a senator opened up a discussion about the future arrangements at the airport. Then, by permission of the president, I would like to read the following text: During the next few years, construction at the Cheflavík Airport is expected to cost between $70 billion and $95 billion, and the airport can take over some 14 million passengers if pressure spreads in the same way as it happens today. Then it says: The development of international airport development in Europe is that more and more airports are being mixed with holdings of private and state members and about 80% of all airlines today come from airports or travel through airports in such mixed holdings. This text that I quoted has a financial plan that was approved for last time. What has changed in the mind of the forwarding party regarding the mixed holdings of airport construction?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u66	V.E.G. President. I failed to complete my first answer earlier on the gang and its development. But I spoke before in my speech, and also in opposition to what. Magnúsdóttir It would be a key, where the country goes. When are we going to go into action? There is never time to go into action if you can't when you can't do it, and if you're in a fit, you can't do it. Should much of the country be left behind without anything at all? It's not working. This should be weighed against the risks involved at any time. The terminal - we're not just supposed to say that when you think things through, and it's better over things, that's not a good idea. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. I think we should just put her aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u67	Madam President. I would like to recommend a proposal for a synonym on a budget plan for 2018/2022, from the 3rd smaller parts of the budget board. The committee's opinion severely criticizes the fact that more of the legal committee leaves at least 8.5 billion a.m. possible government management in 2018, with its payment of a financial programme, and there is uncertainly about 17 billion 2019 and out of the programme period because of the planned increase in merit taxation in tourists to be used in July 2018. Don't make any money or tell me where to cut back on my income. This is irresponsible. It is necessary to stick to the goal of subsidies but not to do as more of the material that promises unsaturable expenses. It reduces confidence and puts waste goals in full turmoil and threatens stability. Increased pressure on growth is fueled by economic instability, all due to the budget and the prowess. Councilmen of the government who support the government and the Supreme Court. When this has rarely been easier, the government will not be able to raise the wealth of the government. They seem blindly believe in the doctrine of liberalism that public intervention and tax returns cannot be good. The members of the United States totally reject these irresponsible practices of the greater part of the budget. Such association with the plan is in direct opposition to plans for better employment with the budget and the aims of a new set of laws on public finance, good economy, and the strength and responsible government of public finance. The majority claim that they would like to examine the pros and cons of a comeback and thus add to the uncertainty of the tourism work environment and upset the funding of the financial programme for its duration. These purposes and straitjackets of the fiscal policy, which make some contribution to the government's operation, make it possible that the cut-off knife hangs over the public service, and they will fall at the least by the economy if the current level is at hand. Government gets to retain power. The costs of the majority of them will be even worse when they are associated with key comments from financial advisers and others about the need to show greater responsibility in the good. A safe waste of money, more than smaller, and a reduction of the upper level of the value tax in the middle of the upturn is inappropriate and adds to the spell. This 13.5 billion. A yearly tax reduction is a procedure that should be preferred when the shoe squeezes rather than when one of the main tasks of the economy should be held back by personal consumption. And it is a wonderful arrangement when you look at all the community - important projects that are unsaid and that were promised to attack at the end of the election. I will discuss these in a later issue of the committee, and I will also discuss the changes made by my third item. The proposals depend precisely on the issues that the public has called after a greater emphasis on and a higher priority in the issue of government spending, but there are also issues that the greater part ignores. In view of the greater part, we discuss selling property at Keflavík Airport to finance transport improvements. In fact, less than that, a small 3rd is connected to the sale of the flight station at Keflavík Airport, which is the gate in and out of the country. It is important to be controlled by public authorities, for it would be a monopoly which it is highly unwise to go on buying and selling. The only way to finance transportation is by making your shoes a waste of time that the sale is the only way to finance transportation. On the contrary, the official operation of the air base is a good way to finance transport benefits. Last year there was 7 billion bucks. Business profits were spent for necessary investments, not interest rates. Looks are even stronger in the coming years, and this may result in making money that could be used in building a country. A premeditated reduction in the general level of merit taxation is not a reasonable option, even if there were other circumstances but now in a strong rise. The operation is consistent with the change in the last few years, where the tax system is flat and disintegrated at the expense of the welfare system. It is being arranged to make the best use of the good ones. It would be almost to increase the equality of the tax system and to support more with children and persons living in an expensive and disloyal tenant rather than reduce the support of these vulnerable groups, as the plan suggests. If the goal of reducing government activities is to reduce the cost of insurance. Thus, building would be supported by well - paying jobs in the human wealth of knowledge sector and in the international sector. It is also necessary to strengthen the farm population of big, important tasks. A greater share in government income by tourists would be fair, leaving tourists more traveled than the income of most rural communities can improve, and income usually works to build wood for the prevention of stress destruction. Many have established financial committees, pointing out that the tax reductions listed in the budget are poor consideration, and it is better to strengthen the country's income supply even now well. This criticism is even find in the review of the financial Council. The majority do not give them much consideration and ignore the strongest comments. Then he proposes that the government's income base should be weakened further across financial tips. A greater proportion of the budgetary committees and members of the government do not seem to be in the position to finance the public service. Instead of strengthening the revenue to the beat of comments, the majority send out 8.5 billion dollars. bill of taxpayers. The infidelity of one person to the greater part of this government that failed in its first poll, and now in its first test, the public will find themselves at great cost. It happens at 8.5 billion dollars. out the window so the highest. The government's gonna get another year to round up their troops. Madam President. The government's budget for 2018-022 is a betrayal of voters and the public in the country. The plan has nothing to do with campaign promises. When the financial program was introduced, the big headlines were about 20% higher to the health system. True, it was forgotten to report that the largest part of the increase was the construction of a new land hospital. Section 3 rejoices in not building a new hospital, but who would have thought of elections that in conjunction with a promise of hospital construction, hospital services, Land Hospital, and Hospital in Akureyri? The added supplement to hospitals in the financial program is not even enough to meet an increase in patients, much less enough for them to work on waiting lists or the necessary equipment buys or maintenances. This means operating in the health system, and therefore protests the United States, Iceland's peers, requiring changes in financial plans. Transport and law enforcement funds cannot meet the abundant need for transportation and to reduce the pressures of law enforcement in the country. High - education institutions are starving as well as the State's major equations, child reforms, and interest benefits. As part of a financial programme, the General Assembly agrees that the government will comply with the programme and the spending of the affected area will be the basis for the next year's budget. Therefore, in the United States, we feel that it will not be possible to make adjustments in the media that the common people call for reforms, and where the deceit of the ruling parties is most obvious. In health care donations, campaign fraud comes at the highest level. Governments well revealed. Before elections, all the party members spoke of large contributions made to health care and better service across the country. The people in the country's call for health care to be first in their priorities is ignored. Because my third point strongly protests and makes adjustments. Hospital service contributions will be made according to the existing proposal that financial planning will increase by 16 billion dollars. During the period between 2022 and 2022. Of these, contributions are due to the construction of a new Hospital of 8.7 billion dollars. as a result, additional contributions to other aspects are 7.3 billion. If this becomes the result, then all medical institutions, including the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, will be facing a more predictable outcome. This increase is much less than the minimum supplementary need, e.g. The hospital has estimated that the hospital needs to be run, including the hospital. Due to population development, shortlists, minimum maintenance, and equipment purchases, as well as other urgent tasks. In a Member State of the Management Board, the increase for hospital service abroad due to the waiting list is expected to proceed to the Land Hospital so that more patients will take the necessary action in this country instead of being forced to travel abroad. The proposal for a 23 - case hospital service is that we in the United States suggest an additional 7,850 million in 2018, and 2019 will contribute to 9,544 million, 2020 11,440 million, 2021 12,218 million, and 2022 14,900 million. If there is a goal for health care to be the first site of health care in the health system, it is necessary to review the network of stations, especially in the country. In addition, health care issues are a special challenge in view of the new payment system, which brings further work to the health - care providers. This requires increased resources, both in the situation and in the order of professional people. The body feels that the public pay sector is already too high in the medical service, that a new system is overcrowded, the roof is too high, and the risk of an increase in large numbers of users will lead to an even greater refusal of income - rich groups to health care. The Company wants health services to be free, and they spoke in favor of the election that the patient's payment party would be reduced in resources. Thus, in terms of less than 3rd share, changes are proposed to reduce the health care support of individuals in the health system and to strengthen the health care of the country. The need for nursing growth is urgent, and financial support is lacking for the management of already existing ones. The increase expected in the financial programme is not sufficient to solve a major problem in the capital area and in the Southnes and accounts for only half of the expected need for new air space until 2020. In this plan, the number of day - to - day reports is expected to increase by 150 to 2022. It is also aimed at improving instruments and meeting the security and construction requirements of many elderly institutions and assuming that during the period, there will be a reimbursement in 115 compartments. An increase in the total topic range is estimated to be about 5 billion. which is nowhere near the actual expenses that come from these projects. The activities of the new nursing homes begin in stages until 2022. Their operation is at the current price level of 2.9 billion. each year, when they're all in full control. This team lacks significant financial resources if plans are to become reality. In the 3rd smaller subsidies, there is a plan on how much money you need to add to the nursing staff business. It is necessary and long - term to establish and finance a nursing plan. If this is not done, within a few years we will be in grave trouble because of changing the age of the nation. Long-term changes in the rights of biofuels in the social security system in line with the changes made in the rights of nursing patients, 3 less is a priority. It was also the campaign for the present administration parties before the last election. Unlight talk of wealth is not given until, first of all, in 2019 C.E. Meanwhile, microenergy pensioners have the complex and non-translucent rights of social security with a dollar in return to the worst. The Union stresses that prior to the introduction of the evaluation, as foretold, the administrative sector will carefully examine the experience in other countries of the impact of reevaluation on the quality of micro-organization, e.g. correspondent in Britain It is of little importance what that food is called which explains the position of people who for some reason do not have 100% jobs if the State or the commercial life as a whole refuses to meet people with part - time recruitment or with flexible hours of work. Some people need e.g. in animals, and still others may have 100% functional capacity, while at other times only 20% of their ability to work. There are people who will never be able to get a job course, and their circumstances need to be taken into account. You will also need e.g. taking into account circumstances in a country where there is less variety of employment than in the capital area. If there is a serious problem with taking action that can help reduce the number of people with disability assessments, the main focus must be the increase in the social equation. As the Conspiracy adapts to this government financial programme, it contributes to disability as early as 2018, and then resumes its programme. Along with the so - called correction during the last term, the government reduced growth reforms, lost child benefits, and even made the money - reduction losses worse. The present government continues its course. Although the situation in Iceland is much of what has been good, children's poverty has increased. Many children live in unsatisfactory conditions, and housing costs are very high percentages of the less experienced income. Incomes, both wages and social improvements, are the main factors in children's poor health. However, the problem of low wages, as well as those with moderate income, may be met in a general way by improving child support and child support. As with the budget of the budget, child - welfare expenditures continue to meet with real value. In 2013 and 2016, families with child - reformed families lost fewer than 12 thousand and continue to decrease in number over the years. In recent years, young families have been constantly inclined to lean on them, and it has made it more difficult for people to raise their children in economic stability. It is a real concern, and the Conspiracy offers a general review of support to family members and the child reform system and a review to the North countries in which it will be considered. Therefore, we propose additional donations to meet family members and aim to support them more closely in the North countries than in the highest. The government does not want to look there according to its role models in supporting children's families but rather accept the advice of the International Cash Fund in this regard. Madam President. There are several factors that have caused the real-estate emergency situation, the most feared of which are lack of supply, the development of huge profit - making contracts, the guilds of tourists, the combination of action and inactions in the last government, and unfortunately the new one does not seem to have the ambition to do better. It is necessary to deal with the conditions of the housing market by any means necessary. There is a conquistador of the Union's decree that the government will develop 1,000 tens per year starting in 2018 and at least for the next four years. By doing so, governments can increase supply from extended housing and help to combat the tensions of housing today. A third smaller portion feels that working must be done rapidly that the share of households devoted to housing would not exceed 25%. The situation is now that housing markets and housing costs are often close to half of the provisioned families. A lower 3rd cut-off indicates that housing support in the growth reform system will be reduced and that the system's reference height will not be maintained for the whole period. If the government plan succeeds, the number of those who receive growth improvements will be reduced to an even greater degree in the equal role of the system. It is also important to determine how rent-insurrections will be handled, but reading financial programs is unclear whether the amount of housing will be put in place or if the price will be adjusted. In the coming decades, we face social changes that indicate that employment will change. With increased self - development and artificial intelligence, many jobs will disappear, others stay, and new ones will be created. The only practical way to meet this challenge is to expand school activities and adapt them to new realities. The government's policy is second, and it strongly protests the Union and considers it an amazing short - lived vision of the governments in these matters. High school is facing great challenges in the coming school years, including those in the United States. to ensure as much access to study as possible, because high-school cornerstones are all over the country; to respond to the reduction in the number of students in book study due to reduced study periods to student study; to cope with temporary reduction in neonates due to fewer people in the field; to a smaller group of schools having to work more together to ensure a wide range of study opportunities either through local studies or distance studies; to work against school discharges and to improve education. So the union suggests that while the problem is over, the number of new students is increasing and increasing in the following years. With the funds, the schools will be enabled to keep a small number of courses, increase the cooperation of schools through telecommunications and spread studies, and maintain access to high schools in their habitats. Also, a smaller 3rd will suggest that the savings resulting from shorter study periods for the student's test will be used to strengthen the high school system, both supportive and teaching. The body believes that the contributions to the university level proposed by the financial programme are an indication that Iceland is reduced again from other nations and that its competitiveness is getting worse each year. The average production of the Icelandic state at each year's college is nearly 1.3 billion. K. Iceland is far behind neighboring nations, with more than 2.2 billion going forward. K. On average, in other parts of the North. In the Scientific and Technical Action Programme, the aim is to strengthen the college system's funding to make it at least comparable to the average of other Norwegian countries in 2020. However, a proposal by the government to plan financial matters for 2018/2022 shows that there is no work to be done for that purpose and, in fact, far from that point of view. If there is no more money available to the university system, the number of students and the number of students will have to be reduced by educational contributions. This is by no means supported by the organization's efforts to achieve the most successful policy on the university system in neighboring countries, adding a billion to the estimated budgets each year covered by financial planning. However, these improvements will not be sufficient to get the Norwegian countries of each student's budget and must continue in the direction of the Scientific and Technical Council. Obviously, the contributions made by the government for transport and communication are not enough to meet the needs of the country. The branch organization of rural society, which met with the budgetary committee after contributions from the financial programme, expressed concern over the state of the road system that has become extremely poor. This suggests that there has been a lack of resources for maintenance and new development and pressures as a result of the growth of tourists, especially in certain areas of the country. Improved transport will be returned in many ways to the inhabitants of the country. Better and more efficient transport strengthens the workplace, the living conditions, and the building of people and the better feeling of living in countries where transportation is so bad that conditions affect the quality of life of the people. One of the main conditions for dwelling all over the country is that telecommunications are in good place everywhere. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the existing communication strategy and speed up the system's working on the whole country. Such changes are expected in the United Nations and will result in a full budget for the year 2018 and an essential increase in the budget. This means that during 2018, there will be an additional program of more than 7.7 billion, and such numbers will remain relatively unchanged until 2021 but may then fall to 3 billion dollars. Police efforts to increase the number of tourists have increased worldwide since 2012 as the number of visitors leaped. Policemen have not increased in proportion to the number of cases involved in the crime of people with a foreign social security number or at the same time in the number of tourists. Clearly, then, pressure on each officer has increased greatly, and services to non - living people and members are expected to be lost. So we make adjustments to make financial contributions to improve law enforcement in the country and to reduce the pressure of individual policemen. The United Nations has agreed that contributions to development cooperation will be 0.7% of the gross national income of rich industry. Few countries provide this standard for the poorest nations of the world, and we Icelanders are far below that standard. In the budget the government proposes that 0.26% of the defenses of national income will be spent on development. Millions of people do not receive clean water, and 2.4 billion people do not live in a sanitation facility. Usually one child dies of malaria every 30 seconds. The average life expectancy in poor countries is about half that in Western lands. This year, the refugee agency sent out a distress call to the world to increase resources for humanitarian work and development cooperation. The Icelandic people, one of the richest people, are to see their worth in doing much better. In 2013, the General Assembly agreed to agree on evolutionary cooperation with only one subsidiary, but the government of the Independence Party and the Proconsuled It during the last term. If that agreement had been followed, Iceland's contributions to development would have studied 0.5% of the gross national income in 2017 and met UN standards by 0.7% in 2019. The recession will continue in the financial program of an independent class, a restoration, and a bright future. In the smaller portion of Section 3, contributions to development cohesion are expected to increase to 0.29% of the gross domestic incomes during 2018 and to be progressive, increasing 0.01 percentage points per year to 2022, to 0.33% of the gross income. Such an increase is minimal and should, in fact, be much greater. Madam President. The changes made as a 3 smaller portion of the Union's representative on a budget count of 30,844 million in 2018, over 32 billion 2019, fewer than 38 billion 2020, nearly 40 billion 2021 and more than 40 billion 2022. However, it is not responsible to throw out budget ideas without explaining where to return your income. That's my 3rd thing. Of course, we may have to look at other fields of activity, but we make adjustments and have to make more money available to our community, the pressure, and the tensions we live in. We need to prepare for the down cycle that will come. Madam President. I'll put myself back on a rosary to review our earning ideas in the United States, but they are subject to increasing equality in the community and to resisting the collection of possessions in few hands and the nation's more reasonable interest in their resources. I'm asking the president to put me back on the rosary so I can review income ideas and other matters that are unscrupulous.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u68	Madam President. I thought I'd expect an ex-fence. Secretary of the budget, please. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, would do something different than other government opposers here who have spoken in the light of government experience and so on. But it wasn't. In effect, the line is this: There is nothing that needs. Every group of paintings, every area needs a lot, a lot more money than expected. And it is spoken of as having some special means of saving in the budget. We are adding to our expenses the real cost of 83 billion during the lifetime of this government budget, except for the cost of stocks. If you add this to the actual expansion that took place between 2016 and 2017, it is likely to condemn a few increases in government spending over just a few years. This adds up to the real cost without the cost of living for health care at 34 billion. You see, it doesn't mean to focus on the Land Hospital. Hospital affairs are also addressed outside himself. The members of the Land Hospital have described one of their greatest problems is the flow problem, they do not get rid of the patients because of the hospital. It is not a problem that is solved within the hospital but with nursing homes outside him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u69	Madam President. Hv. A senator calls for some other tone. It's just that, and you don't have to be the former secretary of finance to realize that here, the public calls out that we put emphasis on and order more than one single subject, which I know is a group of things. In fact, the senator promised to do it before the last election. We all did. But that is not done in this financial program. That's the problem. I can totally put the numbers in the Excel chart and get a cumulative rise in the rest and this in this program. But what is reality? The reality is that between 2017 and 2018, there are more than 300 million added to local hospital services - 300 million. Just to get rid of the growing numbers of patients because we're getting older, it would take less than 3 billion. It's reality. All the rural groups who visited the panel spoke of the roads being falling under our feet. There's a reason. This is because we have neglected maintenance and have not been in the new investments in the transport system, as we would have had to do. That's why we have to do this work now. It's not just for the tourists, so they keep coming, but for the inhabitants of the country. When the situation is so public, the government should hold hands, but we cannot, for the need is so great for maintenance and business. That is why we have to go to the income raise to keep our balance. You can either decide to keep your problems out or to take action to fix them. [[The president calls.]] That's what I propose here and what the United States proposes to change, that we react to the problem, but not just look at the results in the excel document.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u70	Madam President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Now I can't even remember the numbers. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir noted the need for financial support from year to year. It seemed to me that there was something about the total increase in the life span of this program every year. But this is not to say that a financial program, and then a financial bill, can be created and built on taking up the wishes list and saying that they have enough money to collect. This cannot be said to say that these things are needed by about 30 to 40 billion a year, as described in the preceding talk, and then say: " This is the number we are going to attend. There is no way to determine the need and then decide that it will be met by taxation of any person in society; that 20 billion in the tourism industry, 20 billion in the rising fishing costs, and then count only tens of billions without even taking any reference to the situation of these trades and occupations today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u71	Madam President. It sounds like a reason. A senator wants to answer the public's call for health and welfare by saying in the second, " Money cannot be picked up. ' But in the other word there is a reason. A senator and a member of the board to lower taxes. For 13.5 billion. That's a lot of money. That's almost half of what we're offering in the United States to raise in 2018. It would certainly be possible to improve the well - being of patients in the country, to improve the well - being of the elderly and the desperate, or to build up a part of the transport system. There's a hollow ring to criticism. A senator of the Conspiracy's proposals, when he personally represents such bullshit as a financial body appointed to our finest people, has said that there was incorruption at the age of three. [[The president calls.]] The taxation from the public is only being transferred to tourists, but the tax system is not a practical tool to deal with the situation, whether it is a business or a service to the public in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u72	The president asks the speakers to respect the time. We've reached 20 seconds of speaking time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u73	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I thought this was an interesting answer, and I really hope that the government members are more concerned with today's government opposition. I think this conversation is a good thing, and it also reflects the opinions and opinions we have on this national budget. The nature of a matter should be considered in the comments. Not necessarily that we are putting our finger up and thinking that we can fulfill all hopes and wishes and dreams and desires, we strive with our suggestions to respond to what we believe can be dealt with in the way of the situation. I have to agree with what. Harðardóttir It's time to collect income, as has been repeatedly pointed out. It puts both the left green and the Conspiracy to do. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator. We're talking about the policy of the present government and have been an enormous focus on subsidies. Does the senator feel that it is okay to slow down a little, reducing his maintenance goals, since they seem to be considerable? In fact, debt will be paid down to the limits established by the government. While paying off debt is a good thing, we point into the future a great many things with the plan here. I'm asking if she thinks it's worth slowing down a little bit. Then I'd like to ask. A senator. In view of the ensuing and the foregoing, there are about 18 Member States' agreements between partners of BHM that are released during the summer, and the remuneration rate was to be tied as we look at changes in the pension fund, does it feel that the government's financial programme takes into account the loss to those who underwent this pension fund agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u74	Mr. President. I think it's very important for a debtor to pay off his debts. I'm not suggesting that it be reduced. I agree with the highest. Government and supreme. The minister of finance when he stresses it. But the situation is that we can do both. We can both pay off debts and maintain a decent welfare service here. That's the situation, and that's what we're supposed to do. Of course, we are far more likely to walk that way than we are to go to tax reductions on a general value tax level, all of which agree that there is not a very good equation operation. Rather, we should do as the Conspiracy suggests, promote the child-replacement system, if we would like to improve the equality of the tax system. But I have to say no to what. A senator. The situation is that we can both pay off debts and keep a good welfare system and respond to public appeals in those places. Second question, why? The senator was about the pay of government employees. It's natural from time to time. I'm worried about that, because it's a fair requirement for state employees who have been paid less for better pensions. That's been said many times to them and to me when I was around the board of contracts that had to be negotiated with the state, they always said that as well as so many percent of the terms were the pension system and the benefits it would bring to the government workers. That's why it must come to an increase in expenses. I'm worried that there will be no return to earning money but that the welfare services will be cut off. [[The president calls.]] There's more to what this government represents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u75	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I have to agree with that. You see, I'm worried about this, and I've been talking about this pension agreement and the votes. The non-employment bill has been flying considerably, and there may be a little bit of air to equal more than it does. Meanwhile, it is said that the economy is not really able to tolerate the unexplained pay of a labour market, much less when it comes to the terms or changes that occurred there. I'll agree with the tax cuts. It's completely delirium, as have all those who have come to give financial information. What, then, about the things to be used for subsidies? Got it. This is convincing to a senator, as it is suggested in a financial program involving the sale of possessions and other items that are laid out or that it does not feel that it is holding fast enough? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u76	Mr. President. Although I agree with the goal of paying off debts and that it is important for us to fix the position we are in and have a table for dealing with the inevitable problems, although it is only if we look at the currency we live in and swing and the expense of the people in our country, it is so in the state budget that when it comes to comments and explanations how to pay off debt is not so much, rather than anywhere else. It is said of sale of possessions, but the value of sale is uncertain. There is talk of all the radical measures that we do not know how much are there. I agree with what I think it is. A senator is trying to suggest that, in this respect no more is there than at any other place in the government plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u77	A respectable president. It's an interesting debate over the transition proposals of the United States. These changes, in effect, point out that we are not past zero. Though this is shown, we have a growing need not to cut off the rest of our budget, much less in a financial programme. I think it's important that we recognize this position in the entire business discussion of the state. There's a big hole we've left on our journey to get to a positive number in the budget, which we still need to stop for some time later. I find it interesting in this process that the council is now getting the financial programme from the government. There is information from the Ministry on what they think they can do. Of course, in the end it's the council that has the legal authority. My question is, as soon as it was established regarding elections and election frauds, such as what? A senator makes this up, if this financial program had been chosen in view of the fact that the current government has a smaller part of the vote, what would we do with such a financial program at the council if it came from a minority government? Wouldn't we just pick her up and say, "There's nothing wrong with this, we don't understand what numbers you're talking about - and throw it back into their heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Before answering it, I'd like to say that the goal of the big economic collapse was to stop the debt collection of the state. Of course, we went to debt each year. When we stopped our debt collection, there was a period during the last terms where we had a lax economy and were on the way up, the income was growing, which, of course, we should have used to make investments and maintenance, both within our rural society by increasing the budget, but the same in the welfare and road system. But that was the year of the lost. It could simply be put in that way, for it was relaxed in the economy and could be found less expensive than at present. Despite the situation in which we have entered, however, we cannot fail to fulfill those assignments. That is why we need to earn our income in order to do so. It is all right to take the crowns that exist and to divide them in another way. Government officials act as if it's not possible. That's wrong. We can earn and divide our income in a different way and set them in matters that are so important to the public today. Hv. A senator asks what we would do if this were really a minority government, i.e. conducted by members of Parliament. Of course, we would sit down and negotiate for change. We would do something important and be pleased with more of the voters. But now it's not like that. Well, this government has long fallen. She also failed her financial programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u79	A respectable president. The problem I'm about to negotiate for change is that we haven't got the information that should be provided for the numbers set out in the budget. We've tried to ask for these numbers on the committee, on the Board of Funds, on the National Committee, and on the basis of these numbers. There are information we need in order to negotiate what assignments are going in or out, or why this number is that way, not gay. Also said were debts. It might be noted that the debt rate of the state's budget is relatively low if we set aside the pension debt. But interest costs are huge. There is another opportunity, instead of focusing on reducing the debt rate, it may be possible to reimburse the debt on lower interest rates, thus reducing the interest cost that it is all about. In fact, the government's debt is focused on lowering interest costs. There are more ways than just reducing the debt ratio as such. I wondered if it would be better in the present position or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u80	Mr. President. That's right. The program lacks detailed information so that it can be properly processed. I think it would help with the next plan that, in addition to the financial sectors, we could get a presentation of ideas and divisions, although not otherwise. In some committees, the committees received it only on some corneas, although we have not received it in the program itself. You know, about your debts. I'm just looking at it like I'm in the home business. If we are heavily in debt, not many people are excited to lend us a loan. In other words, credit ratings are not good and thus offer loans on bigger interest. There are two things we can do to reduce debt: On the one hand, we can owe ourselves to encounter a shock, and on the other hand, we are better off paying back our loans. [[The president calls.]] So I want to keep paying off debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u81	A respectable president. Here's the opinion of a 4th smaller section of the budget board, but I'd like to discuss just what we're building this legal principle on financial planning, how it's done. No later than April 1, each year, a minister for the General Assembly proposes a resolution on financial development to the next five years; plans to switch to a number of factors defined by the European Parliament on public finance and are main: Management of economic development during the past few years and evaluation of economic development to the next year; aims for recovery and economic development; projection, subsidies, and economic categories, which are important, changes in property and debt; aims for the economy. In particular, the financial programme should be established that the plan is in line with financial policy, and in a financial program policy-programming for specific issues. Public financial policy is presented in financial policy and financial programmes. In addition, state and rural society should make an agreement on the involvement of rural society in financial and financial policies. That agreement was interesting, in order to be spoken out in a mild way. Of these main factors, particular attention is to the past on trends, dissociation by topic areas and economic categories, but, as any person considering the financial programme, the charges are certainly stipulated according to topic areas and years in order to show a response. What is missing, however, in the financial program is the economic system. Economic categories of pay are defined as follows: ▪ Calculating in business, initiatives and investments according to the global economic reporting standard on public finances. No such analysis can be found in a financial budget or investment plan; however, information on the main cost and price of the equipment is presented in terms of more of the legal committee that will be reviewed below. Senator Pirata asked financial and economic secretary for the case during unparled question period on May 9, by permission of the president: He's got the highest. For example, do financial ministers have access to the information that lays the basis for this program? If not, will he not request such access? If a minister has that access, or when he gets that access, will he at the same time grant access to us members of the council? The minister answered with the permission of the president: I think it's actually damaging the ide if we start thinking it's an extraordinary trust at this point, A minister may have thought that the question was too accurate, but it is certainly not a violation of the concept of publishing economic systems, for it is assumed to be in the law of public finance. What damages ideologies, however, is the shortest time available for this matter to be taken care of. At the end of March the 363 page proposals for a financial programme, financial advisers get 14 days to give reviews, professional committees get just over a week after Easter to discuss the matter and give out their commission. The whole assembly is going to get two months to investigate, get reviews, receive sources, analyze the data and provide for the government. When information is missing and the information needs to be called for in this process, it delays the whole process much more. However, the government has prepared the matter much longer. The 2017 budget contains over 11% increase in contributions to the government's administration in order to cover the costs of the budget. Analysis of plan-to-do data. The Ministry gets money and time to win the plan, but the council is just to agree with the case without having any means of covering it fully. The lack of financial support is evident in this committee, and reviews contain a number of tips that need to be addressed. It cannot be said that the council should only work on what is best for the government. Congress is a responsibility toward the nation. The Senate has the budget. A policy in accordance with official financial legislation should be based on baseline, sustainableness, carefulness, stability, firmness and transparency. These baseline numbers are such a red thread to be followed by governments and are the desired ones, e.g. to the core of financial and financial reviews of financial policies and programmes. The following chapters will review the aspects of the better - to - be financial program, one of which is a major shortage of transparency. For economic classification only. One of the most clear examples of transparency deficiency is found in the criteria that the financial programme should be an analysis of economic categories. That category is missing completely in the program, but it is precisely necessary for readers to understand how the financial rights to each topic are explained. There we find out why it is who it is. Why is it 500 million, not 490 million, or something else? Much diagnostic work is needed because of the figures presented in the budget. As the financial Council's review of the budget shows, there is little access to the information needed to determine what is behind the figures listed in the program. If they are available, they will not be accessed. The figures, however, and the information later received by a financial committee have made it possible to guess what the basis is for individual entries. The financial committee received information on investments and is tore up more of the legal committee. There are figures on major stock costs and up - to - date purchases, from 8.7 billion dollars. In 2017, less than 26.4 billion. In 2022, a total of nearly 102.5 billion. If these figures are withdrawn from the total cost of 2017/2022, unexplained expenses are reported to increase by less than 10% or by more than 75 billion dollars. What is meant by unexplained expenses is that this amount cannot be rounded up easily from the proposal's report. In this case, the analysis of the registries is missing, e.g. on legal projects, pay expenses, and other such factors. On page 18. 54 of the proposal, the financial programme, is reviewed by remuneration and prices candidates. It shows that under collective agreements, the pay of a state worker is increased by 4.4% to 2019 and about 1.5% more than the financial value of the latter part of the budget. The total pay increase in 2022 will then be just over 9%. During the same period of pensions under social security law only a factor of 3.2 - 74%. Most other budgets and consumer and management transfers just rise in rhythm to the price level. In addition, there is a general restraint that needs to be detracted. This shows that it is the government's purpose for the next five years to keep up with pay development, to provide lower donations on social security costs, to build an FBI agency, and to buy three helicopters and more. These projects are a good paying price, but better if it is to be successful, as besides all the other projects expected by the financial programme, which are to be within the framework of the current budget, there are at least two major projects to be carried out. At first, this is the home problem. There is the built - in building, which is essential, too, but the second project has to do with laws that were adopted at the end of the last year on the Department of Pension of Ministers of the State. Their purpose was to balance public and public markets with pension rights. At that time, the secretary of finance told the court's release, by permission of the president: Public and public employment markets will be consistent and balanced according to a specific book on this subject. For years the pay of public employees has been lower than that of the public market. The evidence was a better pension rate. This difference has now been removed, but pay is not consistent. So the question is, where is this taken up in a financial program? This equation is not expected in the observations on pay development. On page 18. 25 of the motion says, by permission of the president: It is aimed at ensuring equal development on the basis of a joint pay policy to the end of 2018 and the equalisation of pension rights between labour markets. In accordance with that objective, the Committee on Penitentiary Normal was adopted at the General Assembly at the end of 2016.• No figure can be found, even though the sum will run for billions of dollars. What the Council did at the end of the last year was taking rights from people with a promise to make up for them elsewhere. Such a procedure is like taking people's right to vote with a promise that they'll get him back later, perhaps. As explained above, however, these calculations are just a guess. Of course, the figures are available on basic cost and price of equipment. The figures on pay development and some other aspects are widely distributed over the budget. When these factors are combined, the result is somewhat similar to the increase in government expenses. So there, we might assume, is the explanation for how the figures for the topic areas were created. The problem is that this information is either not accessible or presented in a vague and incomprehensible way. So there must be a search and a puzzle that can explain. The result is speculation and misunderstanding. This is a serious and ongoing lack of transparency. In fact, transparency is the most important weapon against the corruption and emotional decisions of the governments. It is extremely important that financial programs be presented in a clear, understandable way to ensure that they are in advance, on the premise, on the budget of the services. A financial strategy is to bind the hands of a minister, not of the council, but of a minister, in decisions on how he uses the resources he has under his control. In view of the importance of transparency, especially in the political environment of distrust, it is of interest to reduce financial debates of the issues of transparency. Most of them are from financial resources, for the board's role is to determine how the baseline is carried out in a financial program. These comments are the best. This is a long list of comments and I'll find a piece of the best: Budget: This inconsistencies makes comparison difficult and is not in the spirit of transparency. Another comment from the financial council: ▪ Such is incompatible with baseline transparency, caution, and stability. Back from financial council: The like is not in the spirit of transparency. Again: A comparison to a baseline transparency score. Substitution: By not having the production more disintegrated in a financial programme, governments will give more flexibility in managing expenses within their sectors, but it can be evident that the executives of the individual institutions do not have a clear view of how donations will develop to them. In fact, the same is also true of the council, which remains in charge of the budget. For example, from Iceland's Micro-Lieutennial Coalition: ◯Gagnition, e.g. not much when text is inaccessible for disabled people or inaccessible form. Positive comments are few, rather just one of the financial adviser's comments: ▪ The widely defined views are explained, contributing to transparency and firmness. One piece. Another impact of financial programmes on transparency is the institutions and services that the public trusts to maintain transparency in the public sector. As noted in some of the above reviews, it is not clear how governments' policies for the next five years support the institutions designed to secure our rights. However, some institutions, including these surveillance agencies, are expected to take on increased assignments. In view of the figures that are available in a financial program, it is difficult to see how these institutions are going to handle more projects differently than to reduce their numbers in some other way. The part of the system that performs the public transparency role, both within and outside, is locked in an unsatisfactory financial program with too many projects and too little money to care for. This cannot be considered as a support for the baseline sustainability. The above is found at least 70 comments from various sources of communication on the lack of transparency. Of course, some of them are dealing with the same problems in the budget, but signed does not expect to have found all comments of the author on the lack of transparency. In view of the number of accounts received, it is difficult to draw out all the comments of that material. However, it is necessary to make these comments clear how serious the lack of transparency is in this financial program. For those who pay attention, I turn on page 18. 15, on the financial Council's comments. I'm gonna go over them a little bit better. Under the laws on government finance, financial advisers are to give reviews on financial policy and financial planning of the government. A financial committee returned its review on April 18 and met with the committee on May 3rd. Notes of the financial Council due to lack of transparency are listed above, but it is worth rephraseing their comments: Achieving a targeted policy is not a guarantee for a baseline strategy. Governments are not enough to organise financial policies and then leave financial advice to identify how plans and activities conflict at baseline. This goes against the baseline translucency A financial committee, along with a financial and business committee, was contacted by a financial committee. Because the meeting was the only time the committee was given to meet with financial advisers, meeting officials gave too little time to ask financial counsel. Time was limited, and the number of committees was twice. It is not possible for a professional member of the Parliament to have enough time to inform the members of the Commission on the content of their financial debate. When a financial committee met with a financial committee, the committees received a similar amount of time, much less than financial programs, and then the financial legal committee received financial advice to themselves at the meeting. It is also a question of whether such a meeting should not be open at least The media. The comments of a financial Council were many and are well - worn in the direction of the council. The main factors to mention are lack of transparency, the lack of baseline-targeted management, inconsistencies in statistical production, lack of forecasting and policy interaction, emphasising the difference between description and analysis of data, no attempt to fluctuation correction, homologous models, not taking into account the multiplicity of effects, no explanation for the development of investment growth, no logical support with an argument on splicyness, the economic tensions, and predicting of soft landings is against previous experience with the end-growing economic growth in Iceland. This note doesn't close, but it's so long that I have to take a break to catch my breath. As financial advisers continue to comment: No scaffolding analysis of major economic challenges, such as the growth of tourism, the gang of the crown, the excitement of the work market, the increase in housing prices, the impact of aging on health care and care. There is no official information missing as a share of GDP to make sure it meets financial goals. The financial management programme is fixed in terms of financial policy, the reduction of the cost-of-the-art tax is contrary to baseline stability, the rest of the government's operation does not necessarily reflect the maintenance level of public finance, the need to take into account the economic change, the lack of ambiguous information, the information on timing of the major investments, the unfaithfulness of the positive state of 2017 and 2018, the failure to obtain economic growths, the weight of rural debt has had to be carried over its own investment level of investments, the extensive attention to public property coverage, financial detriments, and investments are not explained how the total of the total investment needs, public debt, but the level of financial debt is covered by insufficiently covered by financial commitments. I got it, I think, all the points, indications, financial advice on this, but I'm sure I missed something. It's not a small thing. Committeemen at that meeting asked various questions. Answers to them included: so that there were no economic reasons for having the tourism under the value of taxation level. However, it was shown during a tour of travel services by the Committee that neighboring countries have mostly lower levels of tourism. So there might be a competitive reason to keep the tourism in a lower value tax level. If the aim of increasing the value tax on tourism is to tap the spell in the tourism service, then it is an unfortunate operation in which rhythms, under financial advice, are not suitable for dealing with individual tasks. Also, if you want to beat the spell in the tourism service, which is one of the main forces in economic growth and economic growth, you need to be able to return the State's target of a fall in debt, you wonder if you're shooting yourself in the leg. It was also found that foreign debt may reduce the potential conflict between policy being on many markets, there is a lack of internal investment policies, education and an internal law, the lack of policy, the time to give credit, or 14 days, is far too short, analysis of project selection, public financial and financial law not playing well, it is difficult to sell banks, and there is no guarantee that it will be possible and financial advice would be difficult to find the new financial hospital. But that information came later. It would have been very convenient for financial advice to have that information, so their comments could have been more accurate, not that, and it was accurate enough to be taken. If anyone is going to argue that it is a good idea for the General to agree to this financial program, please rewind this video and listen again. Now I'm going to go back on page 24. 8 for those watching. The budget is submitted on the basis of government financial legislation. This is the second financial program presented on the basis of their laws. On both occasions, it can be said that governments have not had as much time as possible to set up such a program and the laws on public finances are to be expected. Also, it was often shown in the budget panels and guests that everyone is still learning how to make financial plans. While such situations may be taken into account, there should never be an excuse for financial planning not to contain the information that should exist. The implementation of a law on government finance points to two draft proposals, financial policies, and a five - year financial program that is revised each year, as well as to the budget of each year. Every government is to provide financial policy no later than with the next budget of that government. Economic policy presents government goals on the extent, growth, and development of property, debt, and long - term commitments to no less than five years. During the early financial deduction process, a fourth reduction in the information needed to be made in financial policy, although it is not obvious from government law that the information should be revealed in the policy. Each step in the policy process must provide an idea of what comes in the next step. Since financial agendas are based on financial policy, financial policies have to indicate which topic areas are to be used mainly in financial planning. We need to see this in the course of what we can expect in the budget. Similarly, in the financial program, we need to see what we hope for in the budget. One minister reported in the committee coverage that the Ministry had simply been assigned a amount to cooperate with. When further research was made, the conversation between the Ministry of Ministers and the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, which is more successful than the financial and economic minister, was made clear, than the Supreme Secretary. At a meeting of the Committee, a minister explained that in this case, in any case, the first distribution of numbers into a financial programme would be possible, but, in most cases, there are other and in some cases, the third amount will be permanently divided, in this case in any case. However, a natural career must be done by the Ministry of Education to take up their projects and budgets for them, priorities for projects, and then sent to the Ministry of Economics, with plans for how many projects they want to finance. If the process were this, the information would be there which explains the amount given by the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs would then be distributed to the poor and could be used as evidence of the fact that financial rights are being handled, as it really is, or really missing in the financial program now. A financial program contains the goals of each topic field. It contains e.g. ▪ new office construction and the annual increase of production to the country. What goal is then set by a certain guard or standards such as ◯+2%, a score registered to be 2,280..., or a set of criteria defined, whatever that means. What goals are so costly, and what is given is time and responsibility. The problem, such as the State Accounting of Criticism, is that cost estimates seem to be lacking. In some places it is missing altogether, and the Ministry gives an explanation, such as: This is not a time for cost of individual action. According to the Ministry Assessment, a consistent procedure on how to estimate the cost of such costs should be made up of the information being set out. In general, accounting is not being held, and it is expected that there will be considerable discrepancies in how the cost is estimated. In any case, it is expected that the implementation of the listed tasks will be within the budget for the responsible responsible responsible responsible person. This doesn't tell you anything, I have no idea how much this will cost, and they hope that the cost will fit within the money they get, in simple words. Or it is simply said, perhaps more honest, that the cost is contained within the range. There are many things wrong with the standards given on the projects and then the expense issues. When it comes to managing budgets, it is necessary to ask if the projects are going according to the plan and cost assessment. The answers, based on some measure and cost assessment, can be any time without being wrong. When there's no expense assessment, it's not wrong to say "Yes, it's a project to do. " Also, it is not wrong to say 'no,' the project is not on schedule ~ to the exact same question. When goals are set inaccurately and opaque, monitoring will be impossible. Our goal is to indicate where we are going. The sum of the above summary of stock costs, equipment costs, and pay development indicates that all activities of all causes of suffering must be included within the current framework and permanence requirement. All new projects must be carried out at the expense of potential older projects, and normal for new projects to take place, yet no statement can be made, since the information does not appear in the budget despite the fact that it has to be presented. It would be reasonable to conclude that the ministry and institutions know what they are doing and what the work is about to be done. They just must know. Thus, there should be information on the extent to which time to make room within the business sector. So it is completely incomprehensible why that information is not published in the financial program. In the same way, information on the base of the case should exist and is just as incomprehensible why that information is not disassembled in each subject field, as it should be done according to a practical analysis. Piratars have requested this information after all the Committee's work, as this information did not come up with formal inquiries to receive this information because they are not expected otherwise clearly, since we believe that their publication and analysis are essential for having a discussion and identifying grounds, objectives and the impact of a financial plan. These data are needed to understand what an increase or decrease in each subject's area means for the relevant topic field and to provide changes in other options for an increase or decrease. It would be very strange to make adjustments with explanations that are due to one or another's work, and then reveal that it is within the frame, once it has been assumed. It simply destroys the time and understanding of all involved. Then, too, adjustments could be made to ensure funding for certain projects and to specify the amount submitted as a signurance or something like that, but the problem is that all governments are going to contribute to. The information should only be there. We will not find ourselves in that crisis of guesswork, which, of course, is a small problem now. I'd like to describe it as if the financial plan was like a box of the flavors of Berta. You can pick up a bean and respect it, but you have no idea how it will taste until you put it in and taste it. This is not how transparency works. We don't want Forrestur Gumps' box either. We want meaningful information. What we received in this financial program was 41. Not 42, for that is the answer to the question about life, the universe, and everything. We got 41. This does not have to be explained naturally because it is not done in a financial program. The numbers are not explained. Soon we will face tremendous changes in the world. Today, political paraphernalia is changing, and the landscape is changing. Technology progress in the near future will cause us to make a complete change in how we need to think about our community. Such things are not expected in this financial program, not even thinking about technology and technology technologies. I fear that we are not open - minded enough to make that journey with the present government, it is too determined on the present and the past to think about the future. This is the first time that financial programs are under government law. The first financial programme to be submitted to the end of April 2016 after the approval of government funds by the end of 2015, but financial programmes should be submitted at the latest on April 1. It is also the first financial program to give a review, for it had not been determined when the last plan was taken care of. Obviously, there are early problems, but instead of using it as an excuse, it would be normal to use the opportunity to do better, not to take it into account, but right away. Don't accept a faulty financial plan just that. A faulty financial plan is worse than no financial plan. At worst, we'll be on a budget bill as it was previously settled. We'll only be in the standard financial bill we all know. This will not be a problem with the problem of dealing with a faulty financial plan over a discussion of budgets that are in a new environment. Another possibility, however, is to assemble summer conventions and provide new and improved financial programs that take account of all the indications. Because of the comments that have been reviewed here, because there is no better financial plan than a faulty financial plan and because there are already indications on how to do better, 4th smaller things in order for the proposal to be referred to by the government, we just throw it back in the head.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u82	Mr. President. It's interesting to listen to the discussion here on the state budget and maybe a lot of things to do. In other words, those that define themselves to the left, convergence, and left green do not count enough, and they want large taxes to cover even further expenses, which are sobering because there is a tax level in the international context at the highest level even now. These groups seem to be regarded as the capacity of the public and the business unbounded in order to take on an increased tax burden and, in fact, no limit to the amount to which the state's perspective can be added. There is a clear priority in the budget. In addition to the high increase between 2016 and 2017, costs are being greatly increased over the period of the programme. The priorities are very clear in the interests of welfare, although little is given for the much increase and the emphasis, such as. ● Aging services and health care are laid, which will bring great relief to the hospital and provide economic benefits, thus increasing the hospital's efficiency. I'm very interested in listening to Pirata's language in this subject. Actually, I'm just trying to figure out what Pirata's political view is on a budget plan, because I think it's mainly technical and that they feel that the plan is not clear enough. With reference to the fine box Forrestur Gumpur, the taste of the budget is in connection with the fall, not with financial work in the spring where it is intended to advance the political emphasis and priorities. That is why I would like to hear from the Pirates: Do they want to make more tax pay or how do they want to approach this political program? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u83	A respectable president. We're not left on the minister's left,jei, somebody's got to call me. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek. I read the table to the majority of the committee's wing members an 88% increase in hospital service. It is true that there is an increase in places other than I took up, which I did not consider, but I need to do later when I have a better time for it, which is 17,9% in these five years, 2017,22022, and compares to the classes as set up by the United Nations CRFOG standard, you take the health groups placed there, and it's not exactly the same figures between, it's going to a few billion, but in general, it's a medical matter by the CRFOG standard and by the health standards. If you look at both increases during this five - year period, the increase is from 2000 to 2008, over each five years, higher in all periods than in the current five - year period. In terms of focusing on health matters, there is no record there. After I'm deducted, 8.8%, I'll scratch my head again and I don't understand the priorities there. This is well under predicted economic growth, for example, where hospital services are being prior to the growth we are going toward. I might come to the politics next time, it's over now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u84	Mr. President. I'm still a little closer, but I guess I'll be able to hear it better afterwards. As for the table that the senator referred to in the majority list, which is in the historical comparison, it is proper to consider that the hospital is being built during this period, which comes in addition to the expense supplies set out there specifically for management. What I'm simply pointing out in this context is that the hospital is being treated with a flow problem or a graduation problem. It is also under way to promote health care to prevent patients from going to land hospitals that should be seeking service elsewhere. All of this is greatly relieved at the hospital and his ability to care for his basic family as a university hospital. Of course not to be overlooked is the fact that in the construction of a new hospital, there is a high - management economy that allows us more space in the long run to strengthen health care. That's why I think it's very clear that your priorities are on health issues and social security. Besides, I'm not going to belittle my own case, but it's promoting the support of public security that's very handsome both this year, next year, and through a national financial program, so the priorities are very clear. Political priorities are very clear. There's an expansion of the budget into these important areas. That's why you wonder where the politicians are. I understand that there are groups who simply want the scope of the State much more than it is, and taxes much higher than they are, though they are considered to be very high in international context. But I'm a little curious to see where the Piratars put themselves on this axis, though I had the most of it and respect for the fact that you don't define yourselves as traditional right/left.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u85	The president has reason to remind members of the council to direct their talk to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u86	A respectable president. In order to prevent misunderstandings in comparison between my CRFOG and the health media, the hospital is in there. I charge all medical expenses in both the COFOG and the topic areas. If you compare the amount back to 2010, there are higher levels in the field of health care, so that not all is set in the COFOG classification. On the other hand, when it comes to politics, Pirats want to make informed decisions, it's all about it. We are not working to increase expenses or reduce expenses; we want to make informed decisions each time in relation to current circumstances. It's not our ideologies to just say, "The solution is always to increase tax returns, the solution is always to lower the tax. " It matters what the situation is and whether we're in an up- or down cycle. The explanations given to us on how automatic rhythms should work - fantastic. But it's not used, neither right nor left, and we don't understand why, there's no explanation for us. There's some practicality thing going on that we really don't like. Pirata's political vision is to throw this kind of trick out the window. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent review, and especially for the flavors of Berti, that in committees, I think for the first time in the history of the council. Unlike the highest. Social Affairs, I don't make it appear that the senator makes most comments about the structure of the plan because public financial law is just about form. The aim of the law is to ensure the total strategy, the planning, effective financial management. That public accounting is in a way that is determined and that the administration of public funds is being supervised. It is all a form, each one of the main points of the law on public finances. I thank the senator for taking a good look at the plan. I have comments to the form as well as especially what the senator did in a fine way, i.e. the discrepancies in the presentation of different advisers. I was sitting, for example. A meeting of the State Department, where the State Department of State came down with a dissociative analysis to a group of lawsuits of far greater precision than we received in the General and Education Committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who has more perspective on financial matters, whether this accuracy has been established in some other committees. I look like I'm running out of time with the next few things, so I just get to keep them in the first part of the problem, and hopefully we'll have a place here in the next few talks about the form.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. The form is a bit unusual, and it's very important about one of the events we've mentioned from time to time, i.e. The capital. Of course, it's about the budget being held, but it's pushing the budget a little bit to the council and the Ministers as it is right now. It doesn't have to, but it's set up like that. What we need to understand as a body of elders is how we keep this form, as it should be according to a constitution. How do we stay on the budget? We can only have it by getting all the information. It is so interesting that the person we are to monitor is what gives us the information about what it is doing. There's a conflict of interest there. We've talked about it the first time. and in the financial policy that the General wants better information agencies to be independent of data analysis providers. With regard to the professional committees and the accuracy it presents, it was very different. Some were quite accurate, but none I could see could explain in the various grammatical standards that she received. They should be able to. They should be able to explain the current situation: the present situation is this and this facility is like this. That, then, is a specific subject level that comes from it. This is the new topic level that would mean that this is what we have to distribute, and we expect it to go in this direction, something like that. It would be very normal to get that information about the next step. It gives us the budget, like it's supposed to be under the constitution, but not the way we got it, which is just, here's the number, you decide what to do with it, but we're gonna try to keep it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u89	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'd like to continue on the same line. Part of the results of this blurred production in the opinion of a 4.m lower part of the budget board, which is referred to as a conflict in the administration board, which includes the state of the budget. in that space - consuming media groups eat up the subject field, as the other consumers of the topic field call it. In this way there is unnecessary stress within the administration, where the bits are bitten in a place other than usual. Usually, this has been settled here in the Assembly Hall. We've set up a framework for how much goes to law enforcement, how much it goes to D.C., etc. Here, openly, but as indicated by the opinion of the body's less part, this should go up to the Ministry. Isn't that a concern? Then I'd like to step up just to the goal that the senator did in fine, which is, in effect, a very different way. The Ministry of Education simply says that there will be no figures in their goals. The Ministry of Presidency ignores putting them in. The Ministry of Transport suggests more than a detailed number of cost-employment targets. There's no harmony. This is not even in accordance with the plans in place. This is shown in our opinion of the left green with the case in law enforcement, where we have a conquistador of law enforcement with four objectives where the aim for human resources is not in a financial program, although it is one of the greatest plans for law enforcement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u90	A respectable president. Anxiety issues? Yeah. That's it. No one expects hair precision in the presentation of numbers or the exchange of the amount of the material field. They're just asking for ideas and emphasis, just about. You can see that there are more precise numbers when the budget is expressed. The only thing you look for is whether the figures mentioned in the budget are largely removed. If there is a financial programme to emphasize the importance of law enforcement in excess of other legal groups in that area, and it comes to a more proportionate increase, you wonder: Wait, this isn't the plan. That's at least that kind of information you want. The same is true of financial policy. In the financial policy, emphasis should be placed on the topic areas so that you know the priorities and understand them when you receive the financial program. All right, that's what was promised. It'll pull like a dog. A senator mentioned in my opinion as a part of the General and Education Committee, and I expect to do so. paritaprevir This will be considered by Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir in her speech below when she reviews her resignation to the Gaming Committee, a number of them were quite good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u91	President. I'm just going to review a review of my 3rd welfare committee. A panel received a petition from a financial committee to provide a plagiarization proposal for financial management in the years 2018-022. According to a legal committee memo on the political treatment of financial programmes, the welfare committee was aimed at dealing with hospital affairs, health services outside hospitals, nursing and rehabilitation services, medicine and medical supplies, disability and the causes of disabled persons, the causes of the elderly, family affairs, labour markets and unemployment, housing support, public health and welfare services. It's a big group of paintings. The committee and the visitor's discussion presented widespread criticism of the government's financial plans. This is therefore an assessment of 3 smaller parts, i.e. me, the financial agenda is unacceptable in the current picture. It deals with huge metal groups, where no long-term policy development has been achieved. The plan is largely unprofessional; it lacks transparency and little or no consideration seems to have been given to the needs of its institutions. It looks as if there will be a lack of money and a lack of money. There is a risk that the health - care system and other cases under a health committee will be affected if financial programs are approved in the current picture. Here is a brief discussion of each case. It should be noted that the fields under a social committee are both many and varied, and the committee gave a very limited time to consider the many aspects of financial programmes that require consideration. We had far too little time within the committee to meet visitors and dig properly into this financial program. There was an enormous amount of data missing to determine whether the plan is good or bad. It was a great criticism of her that must show how little consultation was made. In the case of hospital services, there is a great lack of transparency in the financial programmes for the Land Hospital. There is no logical support for the detailed information presented. The committee asked for access to data as a result of the amount published in the program, but the data were never received by the Committee. At that time, the cost of operating and the cost of stocks, which are said to be in investments, is not separate. It makes it difficult to see how much money is donated to the construction of a new land hospital and how much money is spent for business. It would also be reasonable to determine the amount of money that needs to be handled and how much equipment can be identified. In addition, the funds to take place in the patient hotels, on equipment purchases, in the new credit system, the S-labelled medicinal products, information projects, and more are not listed. To number five, pars. The law on government finances shows that one of the baseline financial policy and financial programmes should be transparent. By not providing this information, either in financial planning or directly to the Committee, the laws on public finances and the intended baseline financial programmes are against the law. A report published by the Directorates and Advisorals of the McKinsey & Company in the economy and in the state of the Land Hospital acting in accordance with the proposal of the World Commission shows that at the time of the report, the Landspite granted similar services to a university hospital in Sweden, despite a period of half lower health expenditures in this country. Under such circumstances, working conditions are difficult and stressful to provide for the staff, housing, and the entire hospital. I understand that this is due to a strategy that, of course, had to be in after a crash. But people can't work under this pressure for long periods of time. It's not sustainable. The hospital has now reached its limit of endurance. Clearly, when you start talking to people in the community who have to go to the hospital for a service, you can see it. This is not welcome. There is a great need for more money to reduce stress, to improve working conditions, and to restore hospital management to normal and acceptable standards. A report by State Health Research Centre in the capital area since April 24 shows that the actual cost of the State to the health care of the capital area, Land Hospital and National Chemistry has developed somewhat different ways in 2007/2016, taking into account the population development in the capital area, and changing prices. During that time, they decreased by less than 9% to the health care of the capital area and by 7% to Land Hospital, but increased by less than 42% to specialists. For the most part, this increase has taken place since 2013. This adds financial support to specialists at the same time that hospitals and health care have been reduced. This is done without any kind of policy or public approach to whether it's a long-term trend, whether it's the trend we want to see in the future. Looking to the Hospital in Akureyri, to a large extent, the same is true of the land hospital. It is not clear what part of the budget should be placed in business and which part of the stock costs. If so, we cannot tell if the construction of the new budget is funded, but the estimated cost is about five billion dollars. As in the Land Hospital, there is a growing need for funding in hospital management. In this case, the amount of money cannot be set apart because of the cost of living and building. Both the International Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital have had problems with their status, and it can be assumed that the reason for this is mostly poor work conditions and the salary of employees. Both institutions see a lack of nurses, but it may be that a large number of nurses have declared that they will not be employed at the Land Hospital in the coming summer. In order to function normally, the hospital feels the need for 100 more nurses. It has been difficult to get experts to work where the public health system is in direct competition with the private health - care system, which can often offer better employment and employment. Lack of money in hospital management has been ongoing for years. When there is a lack of money, projects are placed on the line that are not deemed urgent. Then the Agency is always on alert, never looking to the end. When such deficiency persists for a long time, the risk for improvement increases much more. By saving expenses now, expenses increase for the future. It is clear that by accepting this financial programme unchanged, it contributes to further maintenance of the land hospital's management that is not appropriate, as well as to which transparency, it opens the door for the government to set aside funds for the projects at a time's convenient time. This provides the basis for the public health care system to be affected by a difference in time when this is not appropriate at all. The primary objective of the financial programme in medical care outside the hospital is to provide the patient's first stop at health care. That goal is good in itself and can result in a loss of stress in hospitals. Despite the lack of a comprehensive strategy, this is necessary in a five-year plan. There is a serious lack of both policies and costs for health care outside of hospitals, as well as the inexplicable priorities for financial programmes in these areas. The same is true in staff health care as in hospitals, i.e. that human health care has been difficult, mostly in rural areas. Health care providers have described the situation of state and financial programs as not a way of dealing with health care problems. At that time, members of the Committee also expressed concern that there was not enough money available for the management of a new payment system. There was also concern over the consequences that largely the payment system was financed by an increase in costs from a greater portion of users. The increased cost to those using health care to a lesser extent increases the risk that people will refuse health care, as is true of dental and psychological care. The roof must be reduced from 69,700 bucks. ... at 50,000K. and ensures that the cost of microenergy workers and the elderly, including those on rehabilitation, will not be more than one third of the cost of public users. There is a 3rd reduction in the estimate that drug costs and medical services are needed for one payment system and are added to dentists, psychotherapists, helpers, and travel expenses. There can be no good when people refuse health care. It must be our policy to have health care available to all who live here. In this area of welfare committees, there is also a drop of nursing and residence but there is a great lack of such space at the moment. This remains the fact that the period of living in hospitals in this country is considerably longer than in a foreign country. A major reason for this is that many elderly patients who are unable to get into a nursing room are in hospitals. The number of nurses is considered to increase, but the level of growth is unclear from the financial program. On page 68 of the budget, according to the permission of a president: In a financial program, five new nursing homes will be expected to be built during the period with a total of 319 compartments, 261 of which are new housing. However, page 306 says that the goal of the plan is to increase the number of nurses by 292. It's very confusing. I didn't quite understand. Inconsistencies may either be drawn to the government plan or to accept that it does not achieve its own objectives. In each case, it is clear that this increase is not nearly sufficient, but much more space is needed. The situation today is that all the air - filled facilities are immediately filled and are considerably increased in order to ensure the need for all the medical facilities needed. If this is not to be the case, there will be alternative options, which are not. The financial agenda on drugs and medical products shows that the major challenges are to create an agreement on the induction of new drugs and bridges between expectations, scientific developments, and budgets. Evidently, Iceland has fallen substantially back from neighboring countries during the induction of new drugs. The seminar has an accumulated problem that cannot be seen with this financial program. According to a report by OECD, Health at a Gloance, the ratio of the State to drug costs at the lowest level in the Member States of the OECD. During the period of financial planning, more than 9 billion will be expected. increase in body weight. It can be assumed that, to a large extent, the increase will result in paying up a lack of money because of a lack of budget in 2017, although this is not clear in its reading. The way funding for this category will come by answering the calls for the induction of new drugs is not clear at this point and as is so often shown in a controlled financial programme, there is a lack of the information needed to provide a wealthy financial review. What is our policy on drugs? Why is the proportion of the state so low at drug costs in Iceland? When was that decision made? When was this policy adopted? Under this category, there are also medical and medical instruments. Special attention should be paid to aid purposes that the aim of the programme is to increase access to treatment tools. The development of financial programmes did not allow for an analysis of the waiting time for such a tool and how it would affect it. Under the region of disability and the affairs of disabled persons, improvements in social security laws, social assistance laws, and the affairs of disabled persons fall. Expenditures for the jury, as budgeted in 2017, are 54,463 million. K. The cost of 2022 is expected to be 68,869 million. K. Thus, the actual growth in the seminary is negligible compared to the need for more money. In that case, the expected increase in microenergy pension is negligible and unlikely to improve the cost of microenergy pensioners in any way. It may be noted that it would be a step to offset a dollar from the decrease so that the interaction of earners of jobs with disability and disability will be an incentive for active participation in the labour market. A significant number of new projects will be involved and will soon be able to see that enough funding is available to meet this increase in activity. Last year, a validated agreement by the United Nations was made on the rights of disabled people who are now being introduced. In addition, a new form of service to the disabled is being introduced with a great deal of support, called MPA, or the user - controlled personal assistance. As noted in the current legislation of the legislature board, this agreement is financed far from the ideal level, where the government will not fully finance contributions to rural society by making such agreements until 2022. According to an existing financial programme, there is still an increase in the service requirements for the rural community, with a share-in budget for the rural community, without showing up in financial programmes, whether and how these costs will be met. In this regard, specific projects can be referred to as a result of the introduction to the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people and the legalisation of NPA. In the case of the elderly, there is an increase in expenses to the party of 8,8737 million. K, which corresponds to an increase of more than 13%. Thus, there is a very limited increase in actuality and will largely correspond to the increase in older ones in the period. It will also meet the rise of a pension-free market according to the social security policy that is in order to improve the benefit of the elderly. However, there is a need to make sure that an increase in the development of these activities in stages is not fully effective until 2022. The current holiday goal is only 25,000. which means that those who are employed by a pension will be affected considerably. This is not to increase the motivation for employment participation. Then there is the estimated increase in a legal pension date from 67 to 70 years of age, which will be fully implemented from 2018 to 2041. This is done with the aim of increasing the income of the elderly. It is also a financial goal to increase the possibility of flexible retirement, but according to current social security legislation, it is possible to speed up retirements against a relative reduction in pension. Thus, the presidents of financial programmes assume that the interests of the elderly are largely unchanged over the period. The family language is varied and agrees with various social groups. These include children, families, immigrants, and refugees. The plans of the government for this group are not designed to improve the quality of the family. First, there is the expected increase in maximum pay on maternity leave. This planned increase, from 500,000 K. of 600,000, does not help those who have the least in society. Those who earn less money do not benefit from this change. That the government's pay to the parents at the parent's will depends on the person's earnings includes discrimination against children. Then, single parents should also be able to take the other parent's orloft if it is proved that there is no interest in the parent to take the birthmark too. Differences in children according to their parents'economic status or marital status or the parent's care are contrary to the basic thinking of this issue, i.e. that you keep your child's best interests first. It would also be appropriate to extend birthworm in accordance with the suggestions of a future maternity group. Yet, there is no plan for the government's financial plans. Regarding the observed rise in the maximum pay of maternity vacations, it must also be considered that it will not be fully implemented until 2020. At that time, prices and pay development will make this rise poor, and in fact, little compensation for those who accept payment from the stocks of stocks. For children's improvements, it is mentioned in the plan that at the beginning of 2017, child reforms have been increased by 3% and the limit of income decline has been increased by 12.5%. The cutoffs had remained stable since 2013. It also shows that the goal of child reform is to simplify the child - welfare system and to redirect to the children's families that have the lowest income. Children's payback was 10,33 billion. K. In 2015, 9,600 million. K. In 2016 and under budget now 10,743 million. K. In view of GDP, expenses for this category have been reduced and, according to the government plan, looked at that they will continue to decrease, thus reducing the support of children's families. The program will discuss the importance of having immigrants get an acceptable opportunity to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society. There are also reports of regular receptions by the eaters and of other refugees being invited to settle in the country. Never before have there been so many people on the run because of a global war that the number of refugees in Iceland has increased. One way to achieve this goal is to have a consistent reception of refugees, regardless of whether they come as greeting workers or on their own roads. [[The president calls.]] In spite of this, the current government has been working hard to get refugees to Iceland. I've got a lot more to cover, so I'll ask a president to put me on the rosary so I can come up and finish up later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She was quite brilliant, I liked her, and well. Clearly, a senator made a good impression on these matters. I have to agree with her a few things, including... ... todistinguish pay expenses from another operation. I think it's very important when we consider how we're going to contribute our next budget, that it will be in there. Well, paying's the largest item in the world. It is good to see, if we are going to try to compare to the future, how the real cost is rising, or rather, how the government's contributions increase to its institutions. Hv. A senator spoke of cuts in hospitals after a crash. For example, when the crash occurred, the land hospital was inexpensive. He didn't have any medicine, and he didn't have money to pay for it. It was for the good of the independents. When that happened, I think that many people were a bit overwhelmed by it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the payment system, whether or not it's fundless. This is being put at a rate of 1.5 billion and paid between those who paid - those who may be less in need of the ministry than those who are making great use of the ministry or who need less money. So there may not be much to learn about new money. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees if she thinks it's missing. I've heard that this is a possible miscalculation. It's time to build three nursing homes here, like a cot. A senator, though still in space, noted: "Aggress is a big one. " A senator said that in a financial program, there is sufficient room to deal with the problems of nursing homes that are sadly affected today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u93	President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Yes, but that's the problem with this financial plan. It is extremely difficult to see whether the lawsuits are sufficiently financed. That's exactly the information we were calling for. It's hard to see where the money goes. In fact, all I can do is judge by the comments received. It expressed concern about the payment system, that the management business itself in the health - care sector itself was not well supported, that there would be insufficient financial support, so that clinics could, in fact, receive the increased stress there, when the payment system has been implemented. It's hard to see. That is exactly what needs to be done. We need better information and see which numbers are involved in making informed decisions as to whether this is sufficient or not. I should have now written down the other question...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u94	Nurse's home.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u95	- Yeah, about the nursing home. It is the same problem because there has been so long a gathering of needs in the system when it comes to welfare, the health system. This funding can't even stop at the hole. It's got a lot of money. The system's been starving for the long time that it's not enough. The committee's visitors expressed concern that this would not be enough and that it would be immediately and still be needed, especially with regard to the people's aging and the needs we have in those areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to move on a little bit. Of course, at least there's a problem. According to what I read from the reviews that have come from the professional committees - I think they're very well down in this brief period, I don't think I've talked about any fantasies, but I've got them before the beginning of the discussion - that they can't be met with wishes across the country, and then I'm not talking about some fantasy, but, like, to provide services on the civilian side or something like that. There seems to be no room to care for perimeters or anything like that. I wanted to ask you why. A senator would count it most likely for us to obtain the money we need in order to meet the tremendous need available to us in many parts of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u97	President. Yeah, yeah. A senator asks about my vision of income. What I think mostly is a problem is a lack of some kind of policy and a long - term view of all the lawsuits. Then I'm not just talking about in the welfare field. I'm talking about everywhere in our society. Times are changing. It is as if we have our heads in the sand and that no one is ready to look to the future and see what basic changes we can make in our society to create a more successful environment for everyone. Pirates have been talking about how to divide the resources. I don't have time to go through everything right now, but there's a need to revise the whole thing. We must not be afraid to go to the foundation of everything and reexamine it and ask whether it serves us as it is now, can we begin to move from lack to the limit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u98	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I think I've almost been able to agree with all her words. I thought why. A senator describes the problem of those who hear under the welfare committee well. Even at the point of the day. A senator has criticized the lack of enough information to be able to figure things out, and we, who have discussed the matter and have listened and read the news that many pots are broken. What I wanted to ask you is a lack of nurses for the elderly. The McKinsey report has a nice picture, and I happen to remember it's on page 45, showing where the need is most for a nursing room and where waiting is the longest time. It is in Southnes, where waiting is the longest, and then in the capital area. But they do not respond, as it were. A senator entered his talk. There are only half of the amount of space expected to be needed for 2020 in a financial programme. But there is still room and service waiting for sick elderly ones. The ministry's gonna hit somebody. The law on government finance is not merely a law to create financial plans for the next five years and to set financial policies but also to evaluate government decisions from a sensory economic and financial system. I'm asking why. A senator in whom she feels that neglect of service to the elderly will suffer, and what evaluation would be made in the event of a sensory economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u99	President. I appreciate those questions. They're just sweeping the problems under the carpet. It always looks like something's being done, but it's only about to push the problems into the future. There is no way to deal with them now or face the need. I see it's a passage on every topic of welfare committees. It is never far enough, never considered the social cost of the future that will result if we keep looking in the other direction and allow these problems to continue. For example, in the NPA case, there is a service that has been considered to be a spontaneous right of disabled people and under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and is being set up as a greeting. Not everyone gets that service at all. And that's okay. It's a matter of basic ideas that I find too strange and that I seem to be underlying and in charge of states and have long been doing. From that point on, this accumulated problem, like there's always a bunch of things in the system. It is never possible to have it so that everyone will benefit because it is not in the nature of society or man to create such a society. I think it's strange. Of course, there is a high cost to the future not to do this now. We need to find a way to make an abundance so that we can distribute rights and resources to everyone in this country as well. We're a small people. I'm embarrassed we can't do that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u100	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In answer to the above, the question was, "What?" A senator that she wanted to look at the resources to finance the need for the welfare system. But now the situation is just like that. A senator described us so well in his speech, in fact, beating us in the face right now. We would have to raise our income immediately next year in order to respond so as to serve well in the elderly and the sick, as a rich nation should have a proper view of what it is to do. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator would see any revenue routes that could be taken immediately. Or thinks so. Senator that we get an immediate resource or profit from the resources? [[The president calls.]] Is this possible right before 2018?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u101	Madam President. I understand every step of it. A senator is going, especially as I listened to a talk. A senator says that to finance, he needs to go into his tax system. I can't say it's a good idea or a bad idea. But I think it's wrong to start looking at it so shallow. It's not in my nature to see things this way. I think we have to take action because we're looking for a long time. If we're always trying to patch up the situation and fix a broken system and undo some sort of financial plan, I don't think we'll ever be served for a long time. We must now decide to reexamine this. That's the only answer. Which Way to Go? I don't know. Such an examination will guide them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u102	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is very excited about her speech and the hard work she has apparently put in the financial reviews. The questions I would like to direct to the senator are about what I stopped at her speech, where she spoke about her concern that individuals would need to be deprived of health care. There have been repeated studies where it is reported that there have been cases where people have been drawing attention to a doctor. Over the years, I have wondered how I personally would have answered questions about finding help. The answer to that question is yes. It's simply been because there was a lack of time or because I didn't think it was urgent, so I decided not to go to a doctor even though I might have had to. I have always found it interesting to have clear answers about the reasons why people did not seek help, whether any information was provided in the treatment of the Committee, why people in general would not seek medicine. In its final speech, the senator points out that it considers the measures very irresistibly that are involved in combating poverty. [[The president calls.]] Is there some kind of interaction in there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u103	Madam President. No, it was not discussed on the committee and found no information about it. I don't even know if there is that kind of information. I can only imagine this from my own experience with having very little money and because in my immediate environment, there's always been people who have very little money. I know that when people are in a position where every thousands of dollars are important, it's a huge deal to go to a gynecologist and pay about 8,000 bucks, and it was for the credit system, that cost $8800. going to a gynecologist once but I now remember that it's up to $1,300. For so many, these thousands of people are important. I think 8,000 bucks. too expensive to start with. This should not be so expensive, especially when we are living in a time where the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases is increasing and we need to see people go and be diagnosed. There are, for example. Such things. Then there's those people I've been talking to who've been teasing about cancer. The cost is huge, which accumulates during the years people are being treated and needs to see a doctor, is still very much. We are to aim for health care, which is available to all regardless of the economy. This is not the case today, and we need to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u104	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answers. There are numbers that are important to repeat that appear in the headlines of the man. paritaprevir Halldoma Mogensen, where it speaks of the development of expenses to different aspects of the health system. She noted that there was a 9% increase from 2013 to the medical facility, 7% to the Land Hospital, and 42% to the specialists. As long as I remember, since I sat down at the council, it seems that we have had no control or no control over how much money has gone through health insurance and therefore to independent operating doctors. Hence, the failure to fulfill the promises made in connection with the payment of the voting system for elections was a great deal of emphasis on lowering the roof, doing even better than was suggested. In fact, this was the prerequisite for the entire assembly to agree to settle the matter, that these funds should be guaranteed. [[The president calls.]] But then we don't see it in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u105	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. It is of great concern that health - care expenses dropped by 9% and 7% to the Land Hospital at the same time as the doctors were raised. It shows that there is a lack of direction. This is largely due to contracts... Yes, the drop. [[Up front.]] It is as if this is happening somewhere by itself, and we have no control over it, but the point is that there has been no discussion in the community about it. There is no discussion, and people are not aware of what is happening and all policies are missing. This is a decision we should make at a conference in consultation with the general public, whether it is the trend we want to see about the future or not. Do we want this to continue, or do we want to strengthen the public health system? The public has spoken and expressed their opinion. But to people it seems that they don't care about what is a very serious matter for democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u106	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a general report on the financial management of the environment and transport committee. The majority of the environment and transport committees support the main lines of the income and pay line of the budget of the government for 2018/22022. According to this, I would like to introduce only the viewpoints of the subject under the committee. The majority of them consider it important to be consistent between the projects entrusted to rural society and the income that falls into the open to carry out tasks entrusted to them. In this respect, in particular the necessary infrastructure needs to be kept in mind because of the rapid increase in the number of tourists in the past year, especially in the light of environmental issues. The majority encourage a clear movement between the state and rural unions and the financial support for this line, pointing out that this may require a review of the percentages presented in Article 8. legislation on rural income. According to economic forecasting, we are at the top of the economy during one of the longest continuous economic growths in history. Thus, a warning against induction and concomitant efforts have been given to promote government management and take place in financial policy and government strategy, including the U.S. government. in 2017 and 1.6% for the following two years, the target of growth in GDP is increasing. The majority depend on the importance of government management and on the support of the unwanted expanding effect of the economic surge. But when it comes to the priorities of transport projects and the provision of additional financial resources to the class, more part is considered to be important to perform analysisal work on different tasks and to work after that diagnostic work. Thus, it is clear that the impacts of transport in cold areas of the country are negligible and that such structure is unlikely to compromise the economic and economic stability objectives of the government. The greater part believes that in general it should be avoided that projects that were cast aside in the years after failure, for the reason that this was a recession, should be put aside now for the reason that there is now a expansion. Under the economic conditions that now exist, there is room for faster development of various infrastructures in cold areas. The majority also stress that there will be continued attention to other means of financing of transport workers than with direct donations from state funds and support solutions such as government co-financing and private support, as the secretary of transportation and rural management. Added, main traffic improvements to and from the capital area. The majority stress that the financial programme does not bind the hands of the government, so it cannot decide to participate in projects on the so - called urban line and the growth of public transport, pointing to the development of the Conspiracy Association statement in the capital area on a financial agenda. The Commission has repeatedly established the importance of public transport, and it stresses that the cooperation between the state and rural society on their business remains good. The greater part welcomes the plans for building a city line and further emphasises that there will be room for the establishment of the State to finance the project in cooperation with rural society, as set out in the government policy declaration. In terms of communication, the greater part shows the importance of funding for continued infrastructure. The greater part is in particular celebrating and describing its joys with Iceland's project as light - related and encouraging its continuation. The majority of them consider it important to provide funding for the maintenance and development of communications timber to be given special consideration to rural society, which have few inhabitants but cover large areas, and to continue to be involved in the growth of the GSM system across the country end of an important safety point to consider the building of emergency exchanges. The majority of the committees feel that the need for environmental issues to be increased over the years is more important, and it stresses that capital support follows the increase in government emphasis, including to achieve climate goals so that Iceland can live up to its commitments according to the Paris Convention. The majority of the items highlight the sentence of clear and measurable targets in this context. The majority also welcomes reports of the signing of six Ministers on the Iceland Action Programme for Climates to be established at the end of the year and encourages the government's activities. Again, most of the Committee supports the budget and the pay code of the government and encourages its approval to take into account the previously traced views.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u107	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for history of the opinions of more part of the environment and transport committee. I have to agree with her, and what came out in the majority of legal committees'section on the State Policy, i.e. For performances, they need to be structural in terms of colder areas. I think it's important that we go to a lot of jobs and ask the senator, since it's now in our district, and I think it's important that I think about the absalvation at Nes shop that has been called after where everything is still in the area, if she would support that. It's soil work that may not be floundering. Then I'd like to ask the senator about the response of a neighboring group to the payment she came in and the ideas she's had in the capital area, whether she feels worthy to listen to them. I have an opinion that if we are going to charge here and out of the city, the more economic inequities will be produced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u108	V.E.G. President. In fact, we've discussed it on the Environment and Transport Committee that it is important to focus on building around the country where we face the fact that the roads and other development of transport workers have not been put up in the past few years, so it is important to take advantage of this opportunity. This shows that it does not have a stimulus to the effect, whether the above - mentioned defenses or road reforms to urban wastes or anything else that is truly needed. For the currency. I'll get to her in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u109	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to keep going, and I'd like to roll over the communicators. Hv. A senator mentioned them only. There's a certain amount of money left over here. I don't think they'll do enough if we're gonna stay within the scheduled time frame and ask the senator if they think they're gonna be enough to finish, for example. The cold areas in which we have focused a little bit on the number of relationships instead of getting those who may have been least involved and not being able to get money out of the fund. Then, too, I would like to ask about the docks. They don't have much to offer. In fact, the report on the budget points out that although a government fund is obliged to meet the rural communities and pay a certain portion of the docks, this financial program is not set up. I'd like to reiterate that we're setting up a five-year plan, even though we re-evaluate it every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u110	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. In terms of payment, I'd like to say we're already paying a price through a Halfland tunnel. Hopefully, sooner than later, we'll be able to cross a Vállah tunnel and that's where we'll pay for it. I do not consider it to be an injustice or discrimination, although we pay for the much - important roads and would like to refer to the fact that in many lands this is the case. Even as Norwegians, nations have been collected for years for making road cutbacks. [[Up front.]] As a tourist in Norway, I myself have been paid to drive along a certain road, since much improvement was required there. That's just my opinion. I believe this is a way for us to speed up roads all over the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A prehistoric senator, now in many ways compatible with what comes from a greater portion of the legal committee, in individual points. I must say exactly as it is, I find it a little difficult to understand the more part of this case, since the smaller part can feel more and less familiar with the opinion of these people, where there is considerable criticism of the financial plan as it is available and the work there. Here's why. A senator to study the income of the rural communities and was submitted to percentages, i.e. expected to get a higher percentage in response and thus reduce income taxes in the state. I want to ask you why. A member of the council to see if the majority of the items were considered moving a lodge fee to the local communities in order to create this same frame. [[The president calls.]] Then I also wanted to hear what I thought. A senator of what is mentioned in the majority branch office's list of better return fees than raising the value of extra taxes during travel services, i.e. The stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. I have ambitions for rural governments across the country, and I believe that there is strength in the State that rural governments will do well and be able to carry out their assignments. For years now, rural society has complained that they do not have enough income. However, it is quite clear that we have certain rules regarding outbacks and specific positions in terms of community spending because of the structure required for the development of tourists. It needs to be considered as a complete course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u113	A respectable president. I would've liked to hear some thoughts. In fact, during the five years, a senator is supposed to change income exchange between state and rural society, for this does not appear in the government financial program. At least I haven't seen it. Besides, I've not been planning to bring the hosting fees to the rural society in part or in any way. It is evident in the majority opinion but in the contrary nature of the government policy, i.e. need to be considered due fees instead of increasing the value tax. Hv. A senator stated that it is important to encourage the government on climate matters and that the plan of action is financial, which it is not. Hv. A senator also mentioned the need to perform diagnostic work on the challenge of the event, which the person here cannot agree more with. According to our candidates, we now have the opportunity to go to job structure, road transport, telecommunications, and anything possible in cold areas. [[The president calls.]] My question is, how can the majority of its members agree with the government's budget of policy when they are more and less in agreement with the emphasis on the share and criticize the financial program in all their comments?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just want to turn it around and say it's good to say that the government situation is so agreeing with the greater portion of the future view that the Council would like to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u115	Not the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u116	And the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u117	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u118	You're absolutely right that we're pointing at things that we can better go. I don't think there's anything wrong with adding up the strategy here puts forward the ideas that we have to further develop in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for her speech as she went through the opinions of the Environment and Transport Committee. I woke up to hear some questions. A senator. One of the things that would be interesting to hear from. A senator is something that I have always found a little difficult to understand: How is it that independence is so against raising taxes, while it seems that raising taxes seems highly acceptable? In fact, this is a talk about borrowing a certain amount of money into a social fund. Thereafter, we politicians decide how to make the best use of them. I just want to be educated. A senator: What is the reason why taxes are impossible, but they just pay back all right? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u120	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks about the difference between taxes and fees. Tax taxes are put on human income and consume in a certain proportion by a certain percentage, but charges are imposed - usually just one price, such as. if there is. A senator is driving through the Halfground tunnel, which pays a certain amount for that service. This is just part of what the person pays to use that service. I can't explain it better before that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u121	A respectable president. In fact, we still take in certain funds. This is where it hangs out. According to a senator, the decision to pay this price is made by the individual but is not expected to pay taxes, although some have a positive view of paying taxes and helping those less fortunate. However, it is widely paid; it is schools' wages and health systems, which people still do not necessarily have the option of making use of that service. I think this is a very important question. We heard that the Independence Party and the right category, revered, spoke very strongly about not raising taxes at all. However, since then, the Ministers had hardly missed the point when they said that they could bring a number of expenses to finance the tasks we all agree on. [[The president calls.]] Why can it be said that those who have only a broader book will not help those who are less fortunate through taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u122	V.E.G. President. Thank you for answering back, my dear. Senator. Of course, a community can be built where we are primarily paying taxes. [[For example, consider: Why?]] Probably to finance a combination. But the difference is that while those who do not use any particular service do not pay for it, those who truly use some particular service pay for it. We can take anything in the community and put it under the roof of the taxes, no matter what. But I'm afraid that if we were to build such a community, we would now be fugitives from here. Then we'd definitely have 80 percent taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u123	Madam President. I was going to ask you about public transportation and community services, but I can't resist asking about taxes and expenses. Is that not understood? A senator, such as mine, can harden the less - fitting individuals? Because there's a flat number. Does it appear in any kind of justice beyond having a income tax that, then, takes into account the proportion of it? [[Up front.]] Yes, or other kinds. Then he talks. A member of the Parliament that accords between the projects taken by rural society and the agreed incomes and the need to continue the development of public transport and good cooperation between state and rural society. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows that there has been extraordinary ill - treatment between state and rural society and that the rural communities in many parts of the country owe large amounts of money because of the U.S. government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u124	V.E.G. President. To celebrate the use of sharp words. At the end of this convention, I would like to point out that the Environment and Transport Committee approved new parking and passenger transport laws with particular emphasis on public transport and, therefore, specifically, the Minister to work on increasing their road in the next few years. That means that they have to be funded. This means traveling both across the country and for example. the end of the line. I think I'm clear enough of that stuff.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u125	Madam President. Hv. A senator may want to explain why he would like to follow the procedure below to make up for the accumulated angle that has taken place because during the last term, the council could not pay for these laws. We're not talking pennies. We're talking tens and even hundreds of millions. The figure in income stocks was referred to here as a ratio between state and rural society. There is a variety of services that weigh on rural areas, such as. A nursing home that's unfashionable, some of which care for her, others don't. How are we going to do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u126	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna pray. A senator not to be so angry with me about this. But as far as rural society is lax because of public transport, it's the problem society has been dealing with. We know special, me and what. Senator, Eastern status.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u127	Northland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u128	And North. We are truly concerned about her. We have found ways to find solutions to that matter. They have not yet been fully felt. I can't solve that position here in this chair, so I'm just going to ask for help. A senator was trying to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u129	A respectable president. Here is a discussion that has been given today by the Constitutional resolution of the government's budget for financial matters for the years 2018-22022. There are lines to the aims for the survival and economy of the public and for the public. Plans for development are also being made and paid for the same person for the next five years. A financial committee has discussed the matter since her release on April 7. There are a number of factors that can be taken into consideration by the Committee. Hv. The head of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, traced this morning to the hard work of the Committee with the main indications and suggestions. Now, without repeating what the chairman suggested, I would like to make some points a talker. Before I come to that point, I have to make a decision in the review of the greater part that the January government change did not fit in with a new set of laws on public finance. Thus, this financial program indicates that the administrative part has had a short time to prepare and implement financial programs for the coming years. This is added to the fact that the laws and procedures associated with them are still being shaped by all of us, not just members of the council. The progress, however, is certainly much from the first five - year financial plan being submitted to the General Assembly in the spring of 2016, so hopefully it is not long before we may be fully mature in this new era and improve our approach to the budget. I'd also like to say, since it is important that I do not forget in the political discussion that is taking place, working with members of the committee, whether members of the budget or other members of the council, in this work, as well as the numerous officials and members of the council involved, have been thoroughly and professional. There is no other way to say that this vast task has been accomplished by everyone there. One of the main objectives of the government's laws on public finances is increased emphasis on policy-making in all sectors of the state. In line with this, it was decided that a financial committee would request the comments of other Synod committees for policy-making policies of specific issues relating to the topic areas of the committee. These reviews, in turn, create largely a discussion of the legal committee on a specific topic area. The experience of this procedure in the treatment of a legal financial program shows that there are yet to be better shaped. The work of the committees was very extensive, certainly depending on what and how many topics were referred to by committees, but the result was that other traditional projects were delayed. Yet, tasks that were for many other committees were gone. In view of this, a financial committee believes that it is important to review the General Work Programme from the beginning with regard to the new law. Then, in their reviews, the budget board and the most widely used professional committees agree that the role of the Generals and the ability to deal with the changes has not been fully implemented. It is known that in most cases the staff has been increased because of the new laws and practices employed in some cases reorganized. Similarly, in order to ensure the independence of the Generals and the members of the Parliament with regard to the financial regime, it is necessary for the General Assembly to provide considerable support and support. Then I'd also like to overemphasize what is expressed in the opinion of the greater part of the importance of promoting economic analysis so that the financial committee can support its role in changing the environment of public funds. A greater proportion of the budget does not make proposals for the changes in Congress resolutions on budget 2018/22022. The majority of the items do not provide suggestions for changes in the targets set before the delivery and economy of the public overall, nor do they pay for developing income and paying for the same person for the next five years. However, the main estimates are that much of it can be improved, and I have traced a portion of the tips specified in the opinion of the greater portion. At the end of the second part of my talk, I would like to discuss other things that a greater part of the budget Committee will pay special attention to their comments and relate to them rather specific issues. The top priority of the discussion is to be counted first from the development of a financial plan, the government's plans for the implementation of tourism in the general level of the cost tax. Work on committees in the financial program reached 200 envelopes. Of these, less than one third of the European Commission's transport services related to comments were made in the plan for housing services and other tourism services to be moved from lower levels to the general level of respect. To make a long story short, it was an assessment of a greater proportion of the budgetitors that it was appropriate to take a certain extent under the tip of a number of narratives, as well as the tip of more parts of the Economic and Business Committee that discussed the financial income of the budget, suggest that further analyses and observations are needed here. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: A non-profit tax environment reduces the need for appeals and a discount of public fees to increase the international competitiveness of companies. On the basis of this policy, it is and will be won. It is also true that the general concept is likely to be the exception if the premates of the industry exactly welcome the unanimous proposals for fiascos, even if it is a breakdown in will or agreement between sectors. After all, it is the result of a greater proportion of budgetary committees to direct the evidence to the government to use the next weeks and months for diagnostic work and further research before it comes to providing the bill for the change in terms of worth taxation. In my opinion, though, the situation is that the parties will be using the summer for such work. In addition, there have been ideas on other ways to achieve the government's objective of earning money, to slow down the huge growth of tourists in the country and on the simple tax system. For example, in some cases after research and analysis are planned, suggestions that provide the same objective as the proposal for the cost tax change, and as a financial plan, will be an important introduction to discussion and work in the autumn. I strongly expect the cooperation of all stakeholders on this project as well as on the tip of a greater part of the legal committee that further analysis of the impact of the Committee's VAT changes will continue for the summer. A respectable president. With this approach, it is in my opinion that it is best to ensure that the political treatment that has been given to the issue achieves its purpose and that the tip and reviews of the many people who have made a decision will be respected. It's the kind of work I'd like to agree with. Of other matters I would like to specify here, of the more part of the budget Committee, his proposal to revise secondary classes at high school, where reimbursement of short - term study has not yet been fully established. Similarly, the greater part emphasizes that the additions given to the university level at the 2017 fund remain in the budgets of 2018. Finally, I suggest the greater part to the health minister that the benefits of setting up a government over the Land Hospital operation have been considered. In view of the key role the Landspians play in the nation's health and extensive business, the greater part believes that there is reason to determine whether it might be beneficial to strengthen the hospital's government in this way. Such a government, organized by professional knowledge in health science and in general on the management and financial matters, may, in my opinion, be of great benefit to both the heads of the Land Hospital and the Ministry of Health, and, in fact, an important link between these important health care providers. A respectable president. For me, who is still a member of the political stage, it has been a simple lesson for me to go through this process, both formal and material. Although the form can do much better, as it has been noted, it is clear that much has been achieved since the introduction of the first financial program in the spring of 2016. There, many have helped. In terms of the topic, political approach, this budget is submitted to confirm the government's focus on the well - being and infrastructure outlined in a government contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u130	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This is because, as it were, the tourism service has been living with invigorates, so to speak, by selling the service into lower values tax levels. However, there has not been much discussion about remuneration in this article. There have been a number of references, credit taxes, or natural passes, and God knows what. So I was happy to see in my financial program that this article had a good time to prepare, from April 1 to July 1. But now, more of the budgetary committees, including council chairman of the Archipelago, have a share of the legal committee. Senator, unplugged and re-created. It works on a person like those in the management board to change his mind based on what interests they are discussing at one time. It smells a little bit of it. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she agrees with me that this proposal of more part of the budget has upset the plans for travel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u131	Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir for the counter-sponsored. I can say it's time to get settled in these matters. I don't look to the last three months, I look to a few years. However, I believe and am convinced that the benefits, in view of the number of stories received - are the only ones that I can look back to, and that is the outworking of this program. I believe that it is responsible to take into account the above mentioned indications, especially in view of the fact that we have the time in the summer. But I can assure you that I will place all that weights on the scales I can so that these matters will be established after this study period. It's a good thing for everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u132	Madam President. Just by making this suggestion, the direction of the tourism service has been pushed forward to take some steps to cope with the rise. First of all, they're going to be decided on the budget in the fall. It is already under the leg to postpone it. I think it's clear that the proposal has been postponed. And I'm surprised to learn that the head of the Party is in it with the head of the Party and the Supreme Court. Secretary of the economy has said he doesn't want to postpone. It is irresponsible, not in the spirit of the legal law on government finances that require firmness and transparency to cycle like this on the final meters of financial management. There are plenty of analyses, including since 2012, and a lot of reviews from the time it would have been possible to make this decision. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a political game, and the controversies within the series of restorations are tragic and stable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u133	Thank you. I didn't see any question in this counter-sponsored situation. But I'm still going to... [[Is that what you need?]] If there's anything to answer, it has to be answered, but I'm going to go on if I may. But I'm still going to make comments. Senator. [[Up front.]] First of all, as mentioned here repeatedly, e.g. ... ina matterwhat. The chairman of the budget board is at the top. The Secretary of the Economics and Economics is fine. He knows that the matter was treated for Congress, and I just don't feel the same way. Harðardóttir It is true that the number of comments that have been made, in addition to the fact that the matter was worked in a certain hurry out of the outside circumstances, is not important. [[Up front.]] Then I could have just missed it all. [[The president calls.]] I don't agree with that, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u134	Not frontal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u135	to upset the tourism service and it could not be fixed. [[The president calls.]] The case appears this fall, possibly as this proposal for the worthy tax change. But it is then based on the strong foundations, research, and analysis that were called after.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u136	Madam President. Thank you. A senator, a vice president of the budget board, before the talk. I must admit that I still have a bit of a problem understanding the committee party of the greater part, if I am completely honest. I usually read a lot and interpret what I read. I find a very remarkable conclusion to be made in the Committee's list of sections, where it is actually said that the more part violates the change of the cost tax in the middle of the year, if there is a reason to detect a return as a means to make money, expected, from tourism rather than a change in merit tax, but suggests that the proposal be accepted. I think it's such a big test result. If I was, for example. To teach essays, I would have asked: " How exactly do the arguments lead to this conclusion? I'd like to ask you what. The vice president of the legal committee: What's the result of the Committee? Why does the majority of the committee suggest that the proposal be accepted when the majority of them have just reasoned that it should not be accepted as unchanged? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u137	I appreciate the answer. The majority of budgetary organisations are not making suggestions for the changes in the Parliamentary arrangement for financial management, for the economic and economic goals, and for the development of income, and for the terms set out there. The vast majority of this document, the plan, is the policy element. It is to the point that we make comments, taking into consideration the political treatment and comments of a number of people, not only other fixed committees, but these up to 200 people we brought up to the case, where our comments are made, there are suggestions and suggestions that give further consideration to certain issues. It may well have been that it should have been built up somehow differently. But more important to me, the message is clear: The majority of the budget committees agree to this program and do not make any changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u138	Madam President. I don't demand that the committee view more of the budget than a good novel, but I don't have to, unfortunately, but I insist that the evidence leads to the conclusion. That's the question I have. But I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity, for I have a short period of time: What is the focus of the focus of the plan to reduce the amount of funds to the high school level and to drive? A senator agrees with her? As noted and mentioned in the committee's opinion, it was promised that the decision to shorten the high school was made that the practicality created by the shortitude would be paid to higher school for improved education. I'll give you a heads-up. A senator says that we are training our young people to participate in a very complex world. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator would have a reason for this economy to return to school? Why is it that when we consider the financial program adopted in August, it was based on the fact that in 2021 a certain amount of money goes to high school, but when we consider this plan, that money is reduced by a billion and 4,40 million dollars? [[The president calls.]] There's not a small decline from a previous plan. How can such a decrease be seen in these fundamental institutions of society? That's what I'm talking about. A senator really agrees with that arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u139	In terms of educational contributions, it is quite true that they did not increase just as much as they did to the welfare of the donor. I can stand here and tell you that I would have liked to have made contributions to most of the budgets, especially education, on couples with an increase in expenses for health and welfare. But somehow, financial priorities have to be set. This time, it is in line with the priorities of government, government contracts, that were spoken of during the year of the campaign that these excess money would go, as the examples show, for the well - being of the service and for the health care. In time, contributions are being made to a student. A greater proportion of budgetary committees point to the government's conclusion that the budget is suspended in high school while economic gains of school shortening are not fully experienced. [[The president calls.]] That's our suggestion. But I point out that donations to high school students are not being reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son is very excited about his speech. When I went through the views of the greater part, I found it helpful to see that the points I referred to were in my comments, for example, about the importance of returning the requirement for high school maintenance. It is vital that we do so. I'm sorry that the committee has not been able to get together to make changes in the programmes in this regard. Similarly, the importance of coming to meet the national church and its difficult situation was expressed. I sure do celebrate. However, I am deeply concerned that my main concern is that it is not enough, nor is it faced with the challenges of finding survivors. There were indications from the National Institute of Iceland that it may take up to an additional 7 billion to handle these projects in an acceptable way and that the number of applications from people seeking international protection would be far from what would be predictable that we would receive only this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u141	The president would like to remind the senators to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u142	I appreciate the answer. Hv. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Hardydó says that there was a view of a relapse in the after-school school at least temporarily while it was getting caught. This shows exactly and is one manifestation of the work that was put into this review. For the rest of the inmates and those who come here and take refuge, it is only an enormous task to do this in the way that we as a society are concerned and that we also appreciate our obligation as a rich nation in the international community. These issues have been increased by 2 billion according to this program. I can see that this is going to be one of the big things in which it can go forever. I give high priority to the fact that at the same time this increase will be done in policy activities and that we will work to do this in a way that takes the shortest time. [[The president calls.]] The big thing for the people who are looking over here is that the process is clear and that we stick to our commitments, more than they do. The increase in this strategy is at least a step in the right direction, but I also believe that considerable policy work is needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u143	A respectable president. Of course, it is mentioned in the committee's opinion that rapid application is needed. That is exactly what the Foreign Institute has been doing. However, as applications continue to increase, the number of lawyers in charge does not matter, and although they win each application faster and faster, they keep growing. The programme refers to 700 applications, the Agency but to a high level of 2,000 applications and points out that, in the light of changed laws, some sort of contract or frame for the Agency will be made so that other factors will not be carried out, other important tasks under the seminar. It is no longer possible to enter the Parliament by means of financial contributions and to ask for additional funding. That's why I missed the fact that this was not one of the major risk factors in the budget, that the plan simply wasn't running out. Here we are not talking about a hundred million dollars, not about hundreds, we are talking about even more billion people who might be missing into the lawsuit if we are going to do this decently. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u144	A respectable president. I can't hear any better than we can hear. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir would agree on the importance of this group of paintings. I'm pointing out that earlier this winter, the budget was sent to the highest level. Minister of Justice to encourage her to consider these matters. But I agree, and agree with a senator, that this could simply be an endless task. I think it's very important, I agree, that these policies are taking place. I don't think she's on the budget. I believe she should be a parapolitic approach in this regard. It is simply one of the manifestations of what kind of people we are. The importance is clear. I'm totally aware that even if it does, I do. The senator is pleased to see further progress in this financial program, and the matter is being won, and they agree on the importance of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u145	Madam President. I'm gonna start by talking about what I think we're talking about. Councilmen agree on, i.e. how we work around financial programs, and we review them in very short terms. In fact, a number of committees consider this to be much more important, but I think it's very important that we make this process practical. It's important that we consider the development of financial programs. I'm just going to take a closer look and quote a financial body that made a good opinion and had a good meeting with a financial committee and a financial and business committee, and then how we work these matters here at the council. In fact, the work force has caused me to think about Generalship's position in this process. It has appeared, and it was pointed out by reason. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, who spoke earlier, certainly received extra money to hire employees to follow a changed procedure in making budgets, financial plans, and financial policies. The same is not true of the council. It is my opinion that the council needs to look to the way it is going to handle this project. This calls for a different type of work ethic and for members of Congress to take a deeper look at this strategy. The problem with it, as it is stated, is that it is not transparent, although it is one of the baseline values it should be processed from and though it should be expressed in that spirit. I quote them into law on public financial matters. It's not transparent. It is difficult to get information that is behind the figures estimated for each case group and every field. It's totally unacceptable. Congress members are actually in the dark when making decisions about as important a matter as a financial plan. That's why I've been wondering how reasoning supports more things. The budget is in place. I believe there are various reasons why the plan should not be agreed to the same, but the conclusion is that it should not be accepted as the same. I don't think it works. I also quote words of why. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the board of directors who have expressed themselves on this strategy and said: It's just a plan, and then you can change what will be agreed on in the program. But the idea behind the plan was, of course, that we were going to make plans for a longer time so that society's institutions could make long-term plans, that this would be the foundation of every government that set down the policy. Therefore, it must surprise me--I take this document seriously and believe it matters and that it is even the largest document in every government, where the plan marks its course and aims - to listen to what it is. Councilmen and the highest. A minister shrugging his shoulders and saying, "It's just a plan, anything can be changed in the fall. We're taking this seriously. We're gonna go for a second. The members of the smaller section, who have gained a thorough opinion on this strategy, view this as a policy of the present part of the government. Surely, there are a lot of things to do with this plan. In a review of a reduced share of the Economic and Business Committee, Jakobsdóttir Jacobsdótttir, as it stands here, and why. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfjörðurdóttir, returned to this program, reports that the state's income stocks have been weakened in recent years and are continuing to weaken them in this program. Then I give a witness to things that were very controversial during the last term. I am about to mention the dramatic decline of hunting fees and the decision not to extend a wealth tax. I wondered if all of us are still equally supportive of not extending the wealth tax in view of the fact that when we consider figures of inequities in our community, it appears first in a position of property. It's the richest 20% who's got 90% of all the money in the community. That is where inequities appear mainly in Western lands and Iceland is no exception. It is shown in a position of property, in whom is riches. The between-steps of the income tax system were canceled, and it could continue to be counted. Now another tax reduction is offered, which is a reduction in the upper level of the valuable tax system. And it's into a pressure state when it's the highest. Secretary of finance shows up in the press and speaks of drastic action required to take action in terms of the crown's funding. At the same time, tax declines are referred to into a filing situation. I don't think the economist will be found that recommends such an operation in the age of school. In fact, you feel that proposal - perhaps not intended to agree with the reason that more of the budget is involved, I don't realize it, but the proposal is certainly there in a financial programme as it comes from the highest level. Ministers - be reporting a decrease in taxes. The transfer is also being made so that tourism is moving up to the top level of the valuable tax system. I'll learn a little later, later in my talk. First, I'd like to discuss the economic conditions. The fact is, when you take together the financial rules that were set up in the government's terms on government finance - I opposed the rules, and I thought that they were too binding for the government - and we added to the budget that the current government established for financial policy, and the policies that appeared here are available, and I must be amazed at all those who are observing politics, that there is virtually no room for building up, in spite of all the promises given before the election in the fall. There is virtually no room in the built - up system to soften the impact of negative eco-efficiency when it comes. As a result, we are looking at a highly conservative policy that is far from the expectations of elections, whether health, school, transportation, and so forth. I would like to remind you that in the review of financial policies, it was said that governments could easily become involved in a financial crisis if the situation proved to be different from what they predicted. In view of financial reviews, it is noted that there is high uncertainty about national and economic factors. It's pointed out that equality could exist in models and projections in Iceland. In the opinion of a financial body, the President's permission states: ▪ Every major member of the country uses the Society's model in its forecasting. This is a concern. Single models lead to uniform forecasts and economic debates become uniform. Such a course increases the risk of all making the same mistakes. I agree with this criticism. I believe that it is fundamental to either become an independent national interest system, as it were. The members of the United Nations have suggested, or something like that around financial councils so that long-term independent national interest programmes can be established, as it was accepted when the Senate concluded a decree. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was agreed to attack such long - term schedules. It doesn't make sense for all predictions to live on the same models. The review of the financial Council casts doubt on some of the conditions at the highest. The secretary of finance seems to be doing his part in this financial program. The population's saving tendencies are bound to increase permanently. However, this is not supported by diagnosis. The only evidence is a description of the trend since 2008 that has reduced personal consumption. According to one financial board, private consumption as a proportion of GDP is usually about one third in Western countries and it is difficult to see why Iceland should be different from that in the long term. The financial Council quotes foreign information and asks: Why are people giving themselves such a basis? There are no answers. Another example of uncertainty is that the plan is based on Iceland's Organization for Economics, which assumes a smooth landing after the current expansion of the Icelandic economy. In this way, it will be a long economic growth that we have now experienced without difficulty. On the other hand, the review of the financial Council says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Sagan teaches us that hard landing is more often, but not the case after a school period in Iceland and that it is desirable to have lived below itself and identify the risk. In any case, it would be reasonable to take into account the predictions and analyses of other investigators as specified in the law. The current economic growth from the late part of 2010 has already become the longest in the republican history. It is unusual to think that it will last uninterrupted until 2022. But the plan is that it will. As soon as there is a setback, the foundation of the plan is broken, and it is not expected to earn a few income, for all expenses are to be contained within the economy. There we see black in white, in this fine paraphrase of independent parties, that the basis for this plan is not working. I don't think it's a good idea if I'm allowed to say it here at the Committee to cover more of the legal committee. Then I come to the travel service I said I would discuss. This suggests that travel services will be moved from lower levels to the top level of the value tax system, followed by the upper level reduced; it is, in fact, offered the tax reduction I referred to here. Income of this, 17.5 billion per year should be used starting in 2019 C.E., whereas a reduction in the upper level is expected to result in a 13.5 billion reduction. The net effect should be 4 billion. This change was normally achieved in a financial and business committee discussion. Of course, this man follows the great discussion that lasted the entire last term, that policies were lacking in tourism, our largest export work. All that ideal period was called on policy. A so - called resort for tourism was set up to shape the common policy. Of course, it was not called to refer to this change, which appeared before the committee. It was noted that there was no actual analysis of the impact of the procedure on tourism, tourism, the length of tourist living, their consumption in the country. There was repeated concern that this change could lead to the spread of tourists throughout the country, although it would be a declared government policy to distribute tourists more throughout the country and better over the year. The economic and economic evaluation of the impact such a change in prices, the flow of tourists, and the sponsorship of the crown is a minor one, according to the plan. However, no analysis is published to support this conclusion. Then I'll come back to what I said earlier about the former opinion of the greater part. The evidence is presented here, and there is a conclusion that is not in any step with the evidence, or that the evidence is presented but no analysis published that supports the evidence. It's just a saying. Of course, we'll have a reason. Senators insist that there is a serious diagnosis behind this kind of work. Of course. Since the introduction of the plan, which also attracted my attention, this was actually a tool to reduce the number of tourists. I was impressed, too. It is claimed in the program that this should have no effect on the number of tourists. But after the plan began, the highest criticism comes. Secretary of finance and say: Well, we are now trying to control the number of tourists. Still, the plan says that this should not affect her at all. Hope you ask yourself what kind of work this is. The time passes quickly in this speech, so it is clear, Madam President, that I have to get back on the rosary and ask for it to be done at once. I have a lot on my mind about this plan. I wondered, " Will the government intend to, since this change in merit taxation is intended to reduce the number of tourists, to continue spending a lot of money on markets to attract more tourists? ' I don't feel like there's a stone on a rock in the government's argument about this change. That's not why I'm saying I'm in a prince's mood against her. But, of course, I'm surprised, as are the members of the tourism service, after being at a meeting with the highest level. Ministers of the government who promised at least from the Independence Party and the Revolution that there would be no attack on such changes except that a huge consultation had been made with all parties. Of course, you will be surprised to see such a change brought about. But it seems that there is a greater proportion of the budget-to-be runs from the focus of the program because they suggest that this should be revised, that return visits will be adopted. V.E.G. The prime minister comes up here yesterday and says that there may be a reason to wait with this, taking a closer look. There's a secretary of finance left behind. As has been said in a very clever way, even now, here at the council. It is also interesting, as shown in the review of a financial board, that this plan is intended to work at a certain baseline level. I mentioned the great baseline transparency. The financial adviser gives a good deal of consideration to the fact that other baselines are also ignored in this program. For example, there is no indication that there is one of those famous baselines to attack such tax changes with shame and inconsistencies. Second baseline is also stable. In view of the fact that this change is proposed at the same time as the sale of new parking costs, increases in the cost of stay, and that governments sit with their hands and see landowners charge illegally into the environment, and do not drive or help in the illegal payment, there is no way to argue that this plan meets the baseline stability. The financial board believes that tax treatments for tourism should be comparable to other occupations. It's right to keep it here. But it sets a question mark at the time and the setting that I initially criticized to lower the upper value tax level directly, which is an extremely unsatisfactory operation in society's filing times, directly instigating but not reducing, and this procedure also carries the tax collection of domestic demand. To quote directly from the Council's review, the president's permission is: ▪ The specific procedure is likely to violate baseline stability in current economic conditions. I want to use this opportunity to celebrate the rise in carbon charge, so you can keep what you agree with. Certainly, this price must be much higher than it is now to produce the desired results in the reduction of carbon emissions. However, I give a measure of concern that green taxes policy seems to be very short. Nor has there been any consultation, seems to be, of this increase rather than of any other tax change. But I agree with this policy and I want to state it here. A red thread in the review of the financial Council is that further data and analysis are lacking. It is pointed out, when it comes to the review of property and debt, that the disintegrated data are not available. Therefore, it cannot be said that policy on the development of debt does not damage sustainability or balance that value. Once again: Base values to color all this schedule. How to maintain the quality of public property is not yet available. The financial affairs of a community are still another uncertainty factor in a financial agenda. And once again, it is requested for further analysis and asked if the ultimate objective of living would ultimately prove to be the responsibility of the state. Regarding the financial Council, it is hard to understand that total conflict is in the economic and other policies we are accepting here at the General Assembly. It has been suggested that financial programmes are examples of policy measures that go from top to bottom, while other policies are relatively off the edge of the bottom and up, as it were. These policies are not going together at all. The most intimate example is a transport program that is in no way involved in financial planning. I have not been able to discuss the exchange of expenses as it is here, but I would like to finally say that this financial plan is based on the reduction in the share of GDP years from year to year in the timetable and an average of the past 25 years. That, Madam President, says more than a lot of words about the direction this is called. This financial strategy is not a plan to build up, build up in the education system, build up in the health system, build up the welfare community, build up the infrastructure, the infrastructure that had become the last campaign, and all classes had big words to build. No, the present government is not prepared to earn a fair way of living up to the necessary structure to be established. The present government does not intend to listen to the 86,500 Icelanders who signed a clear challenge to us politicians that the proportion of health issues of GDP should go up. The current government does not exist in order to fulfill the last government's promise that a budget that would be used in the high school system should be returned to school to improve school activities. The current government does not intend to uphold the approved policy of the University of Science and Technology. [[The president calls.]] The present government has a vision that I don't sign in this financial program, and I hope it will be dropped here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u146	Madam President. This view of crime is a bit unexpected. At the outset, it is implied that there was a crime here. And it's only a few short arguments as you read further. However, the last page, page 19 - there is no crime. Well, here's what we're saying, Madam President: ▪ This financial program indicates that new things have not had enough time to prepare and implement financial programs for the next year. Then: To say that the structure and work on the new setting is acceptable but progress is truly great... And: So the government has had a very short time to prepare the case and at the same time have it any sign... Then there is short - lived evidence. I'd like to ask the literature scholar, "Don't you find a strange conclusion to be drawn at the end that this document should be supported after all that has happened?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u147	Madam President. This is exactly what I have been wondering about reading the committee opinion of the greater part. Work is criticized, both by the Ministry of Economics and by the Generals. It was pointed out that time was too short, that there is really nothing that can be done to take care of these matters properly. It is critical that economic forecasting is homologous, based on homologous models. If I were to take this commission from the crime story, then it would be. A senator would specifically ask about this, I would say that this is called, by permission of the president, though the matter is Icelandic, called ◯red military Campaign, or false clues. This view is full of false clues that lead to a conclusion contrary to what the reader reads from the opinion of the committee. In fact, after reading the committee's opinion, I would have thought that the conclusion was clearly that more of the legal committees suggested significant changes or simply that the case would be referred back to a government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u148	Madam President. After reading this, I was also surprised at the results. It was like reading a talk from the former president of the Republic. There was a knock on and off. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But, hey. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson earlier said that the most controversial aspect of this financial program was an increase in prestige. That's controversial, all right. But it takes a bit. A member of the U.S. National Institutes of Health, from the school community, agrees with me and pointed out that the roads were failing? Or is it something I haven't felt right?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u149	Madam President. Now we have entered another field, which is not my field of expertise, which is psychology, which I think has been in charge. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, when he said that the increase in tourism was the most controversial thing, to bring it up to the top level of the valuable tax system. When you have a problem at home, you tend to answer from that problem, even when you are not asking for it. The answer is what? paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson tells us that there is a problem in the government home when it comes to bringing up the tourism service on the level of tax taxes, since they do not agree. They agreed to set up a plan here, which is a lot of nonsense. Of course, and that, in my speech, even though I have looked at the side of the income, is the major issue that my problems know exactly what we discussed before elections; the health matters that were spoken of in the language are the school issues. We face hardships both in high school and in college. [[The president calls.]] And the accommodations that I could not mention will be mentioned in the next talk. There's a huge disagreement on this big cost factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very pleasant and meaningful discourse, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir is here asking a few questions. What I'm stopping at, first of all, is that the review of most parts speaks of a short time being to win this financial program; it's such a corny tone in the greater part of it. I have to say, it's surprising to me. As far as I know, the main part of the members of the government has been in the government during the last term, has won the laws on public finance, and has been involved in the implementation of the last financial programme proposed. Is it not the opinion of the senator that enough time and sufficient knowledge would have been within the administrative section to present a difficult document than what we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u151	Madam President. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says, and I thank her for the answer. All of this brings us to the subject of a lack of time. But isn't the problem a double problem? Time is, I think, not the problem; I agree. That's what a senator does. The problem is that the program has been submitted without sufficient tearing of the operating categories. The distinction, obviously regarding this strategy within the government, takes place after the decision has been made. It is easy to point out a time map and something else to distract from it. And on the other hand, what I believe is that we must, in fact, consider, as a subject to the economic conditions. We'll see in the review of the financial board that we need better management of this strategy and that adequate diagnostic equipment is available. In fact, we cannot be offered to replace a document so that almost all the reasons for it are questioned by the Council's review of the matter. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a matter of time, I think it's all about other factors, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u152	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Another thing that I would like to get the senator to answer turns to when groups were talking to each other in connection with government talks. It was my understanding that one of the main reasons why government could not be established under the leadership of God's people was not possible. A senator had been emphasised on not raising taxes. You're not supposed to go up on taxes at all. I need to ask the senator if he's right. Then it's strange to see the highest. With no advance of advance, no consultation, no professional work, and suggest that tax be dropped contrary to what he said in the campaign, and after the election too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u153	Madam President. As I spoke earlier in my speech, the structure of the big election case was built. That's what was far superior in the entire campaign for all categories. There were plans to build up health, school, transportation - this was all of us. It is safe to say that the groups spoke one thing. I was sitting at meetings where all classes signed that it was certainly a key factor to achieving the objectives of OECD in the college funding and an average of the northern countries. I attended meetings where all classes met specific health goals. Hv. A senator asks for a government interview. I think it's best that I speak for my own party. In the left green we spent the entire time with our eyes open to it, before and after the election, that in order to live up to the expectations we raised in the campaign, we would have to make money. We would want to do so in a reasonable way, adding a form of pressure to those most rich, as I came to do in my speech. [[The president calls.]] This was our prerequisite. Not everyone agreed about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u154	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the speech. The government's financial program shows that there should be a 23% increase in health care. At the same time, when you look at the current government budget, the cost of operating and the cost of stocks are mixed together. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she is not concerned about such things as me that we do not meet the needs of health - care infrastructure and whether they are concerned that these factors are mixed. I also ask if she agrees with me that this is a very disturbing picture of the situation and of what is being introduced into the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is part of what I think this plan is going to be all about. Hv. A senator mentions health issues. We are designed to make donations for hospital service, but when it comes in, most of them are about the construction of a new hospital. Now I'm a very busy building of a new hospital. I'll take it out. Then we need to ask: " What really leads to business growth? Then there are the other statistics, or 338 million, actually increasing to the general business of 2018 from the current year that is far from meeting what the Landspians have noted as a cumulative need for management and equipment costs and other market costs. I ask myself, " Is that why more of the legal committee suggests that there will be some kind of political government over the Land Hospital? ' Is this because the hospital managers have been as powerful as they are to point out a position in the hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u156	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the answer. I agree with what you're saying. The senator says that there is a very serious problem with the budget program we're discussing here. I agree with it. A senator also says that during the recent campaign campaign, all classes spoke of the importance of infrastructure. But you can't see in this national financial program that you do not enter the built - in structure mentioned. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees what it says on the basis of our reviews. The panel members that it would even have to be 1% substitute for 1.5%, but it could give an additional $10,12 billion to the state's funds. I ask her how she likes that a little subsidies, though of great importance, would be slowed down so that we have room for infrastructure that is truly needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u157	Mr. President. Our main focus on our left - green relocation has been to strengthen the farms and that it is normal for us to assume that certain wastes are being taken care of. The money's not an excel. The wealth is about the community we live in. Just as a traditional home textbook puts you in place when you can, but buying food for your children does not save. Our plans take into account the natural consequences of the money fund and the support of income companies, but of course we need to evaluate them according to the need. Hv. A senator also asks for subsidies on debt. I roll it up, and we in the VG: Does this plan Based on a solid basis? Here, too, significant sales of possessions are expected to speed up the payment of debt, much to be expected to pass over. I think we need to be a little realistic about that too. [[The president calls.]] Setting good and noble goals on paper is not enough. We also need to be realistic about how we are going to reach them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u158	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I can agree with the last words there, I hope that this program will be held at the council. We were in the government during the last term, and we put up a financial plan. A senator was now quite critical of his time. I'd decide what to do with it. A senator who referred to the fine financial program, yet there was hope that high school would offer the opportunity to gain the benefit of short - term work time and money that will be saved. They seem to be gone now that a restoration and a bright future are in cooperation with the same group. The same is true of policies in the scientific and technical policies and in other places. This may be an example of the matter of who is in charge and which visions are listed. I wanted to hear what I thought. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]] It has been emphasized by the laymen. At the same time, I'd like to hear what you think. A candidate is concerned about what is most serious about the budget or what it does not contain.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u159	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentions the last financial program adopted by the last government in August. I've only been making the plan for publicity especially in high school affairs. I did not agree with the decision to shorten my high school for three years. It was natural for me to follow a 2008 high school song about freedom in the high school system, that schools had time to shape their special positions. It seemed to me that this decision shaped the school system toward an increased central control. But okay. That's the highest. The minister said, "This is the way for practical management, and it must be returned." And she returned to her last financial program. So thoroughly that it accounts for the 1 billion and 447 million that we are now seeing to our high school contribution in 2021 but since our last schedule. Hv. A senator's question is, what's serious? I might have to come to that second answer. I am very worried about how ambitious this program is when it comes to education where there are opportunities for the future. [[The president calls.]] This is the highest number. Ministers that it is only healthy to reduce only the number of students. Wait, what kind of offense is this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u160	A respectable president. This is the same as I had noticed, aimlessness, an ambitious education issues, and research issues that are involved in innovation and research. in that before Prime Minister was president of the Scientific and Technical Council. He's not anymore. This suggests that this government has no particular interest in that group of languages. But what I've been most worried about, apart from the fact that there's an obvious lack of ambition in the case that matters most to the future, the government claims to place all its emphasis on health. But the increase is very limited and does not live up to its expectations. In transportation, people just give away what they can. A government government that claims to be not ready to raise taxes, however, intends to raise the taxes on those who drive the road, in order to finance road projects, in fact, here on the southwest corner rather than on a land, which might be a better opportunity. [[The president calls.]] I find it most serious in this government financial program that there is an act and ambition to deal with the problems of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Then we'll get to it. A senator mentioned earlier. This schedule does not reveal what is to be done to make any structure possible. It's interesting to listen to the highest. A secretary of transportation who speaks as if he were in desperate need of one option. There is no room for that. There are political decisions behind what is stated in the budget where taxes are not to be raised, even to reduce them into the panel. Instead, taxpayers are to be taxed on the road. These are exactly the same arguments we've heard in other sectors, in patients, in schools, and in what they are. They're making political decisions here. I mentioned the old school stuff. It is misleading when we look at contributions to the university that, first of all, this is a building, an increase in real life. I present concerns about how much ambition it is to aim directly to reduce the number of college students and to bring the issues of the Scientific and Technical Council under the Ministry of Presidency because science is obviously not supposed to be central in the Iceland that this government wants to build for the future. [[The president calls.]] That's the message they're sending.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u162	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the state-of-the-art budget for the current state of Independence, Action, and the bright future. I'm going to at the time that I have in a speech to swerve a little bit of the review given to the head of the World Health Committee by the financial development of the welfare committee. That review began with a small general introduction where I, well. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, who signed this document representing my second section, written: A smaller proportion of welfare committees agree that many good goals are set up in the budget of the budget for 2018,2022. However, there is a lack of transparency in the program, and it is almost impossible to identify the budget for the proposed objectives. Also, stock costs and cost are mixed up in many places, providing a very distorted picture of the situation. A lower section criticizes the high financial standards set out in 2018/2022, which is now 1.5%. For example, during the Occupation period of the Future Party, it was suggested that the budget be one percent left over, and a lower portion of the budget is suggested that the claim be reduced by 0.5%. According to our analysis, it should be possible to provide a government fund of about 10 to 12 billion dollars. A little extra a year. This adds to a lower share of welfare committees stress that, as noted today in talks, it was a high priority for all groups now at the General Assembly in the recent election campaign to expand the development of health, education, transportation, and elsewhere. Then there are a large number of lawsuits in the financial part of the welfare committee. I don't know what I'm gonna get across, but at least, let's start. First, hospital service. Under this area, there is specialized hospital services, public hospital services, and foreign hospital services. According to a national budget, making contributions to the topic field is expected to increase by 23%, if I recall correctly. In this amount, a number of expenses are expected on the construction of a new land hospital, but a large part of its construction is carried out during the financial period. In that amount there is also the cost of buying equipment, the effort to shorten a waiting list and design at the hospital. In addition to this, money is provided for operating on positronics, BUGL, breast centers, and graduations for the elderly. These are excellent, noble goals and well - thought - out assignments. However, as I have come to my speech, basic expenses and operating expenses are mixed together. It is not transparent, especially in the areas involved in health care. It is very difficult to tell how to reach these goals. According to the National Hospital's review of financial programs, it lacks about 10 billion dollars. to run, and to obtain the necessary funds and other market expenses at the hospital. In this regard, according to the National Hospital assessment of the collection of additional financial needs of the hospital, which the Ministry of Health called for when the financial programme was being carried out within the Ministry. If the current financial programme remains to be agreed, the National Hospital Officers feel that the cost of domestic hospitals has to be cut about 5 billion bucks. During the period of the programme, compared with new projects set in the schedule, but not in the rest of the work programme. According to Land Hospital leaders, this means that the additional amount of money proposed in the programme seems largely gained by canceling the funding of existing and continuing to exist. In addition, there are some of these new projects, which will include only partial financial contributions. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Note that there is no basis for buying equipment for new buildings on Ring Road or for remake on the former homes of the hospital. Both are essential for a new treatment core and for study houses to be completed in 2023, as the financial agenda highlights. Now I haven't had the numbers confirmed by the data we received, that it lacks about 123/43 billion to complete a new land hospital and about 7 billion to complete renovations on old housing. But you're thinking about it, if it's true that 13 billion people are missing the hospital and 7 billion are short to finish your old house on Ring Road. Then there's the hospital in Akureyri. Their review shows that there is a limited experience in raising donations in order to meet the need for increased service and the necessary building up of hospital services. According to their sources, there is an actual increase in the case area of 23, i.e. Hospital services we're discussing here, only 338 million. K. in the season of the plan. In this amount there is an increase in business costs and stock costs, and it is difficult to see how they will meet the improvement in the quality of the service and the development of the hospital. I have to say, it's very serious when the Council is not given information on how specific goals in this program are financed. A review from the Akureyri Hospital reports that the annual need for the next few years, in view of similar increases in hospital activities and in the last five years, is in the range of 31.74%. Of these, the annual annual pay for the increase in demand for service is more than 370 million. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 What is the business of surgical services, walking - care services, and mental - health services for children and adolescents? There is also the effort to increase the number of doctors and the funding of collective agreements. We in the leading category, which are a smaller part of the health committee, are concerned with the presidents of the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital for underdevelopment to the topic area of hospital services, and are severely critical of the great innuendo in which this government budget is involved, as well as the mix of stock and management costs. It gives a very wrong view of the situation. We have been disappointed by the small apparent increase in money into the topic area. We strongly emphasize the need for contributions to the seminars to be reviewed in order to meet the prosthetics of professionals. We find it difficult to see from the financial contribution made to the seminary that the government manages to relieve the stress of hospital staff and patients'services. It is the opinion of a lower part of the welfare committee that this is a real disappointment, in view of the government's policies on the conduct of the last total election. Time runs fast, and I have one field of topics of many members of the health committee. Looks like you're going to have to do another talk afterwards. But it is best to make at least the rest of our time. So there is medical care outside the hospital. Of course, there's our health care, and there's expert services and nursing, physical therapy, diligent training, speech training, and transportation. That's where we get back to the same thing. Economically, contributions to the topic field are expected to increase by 11.5 billion dollars. the duration of the plan. There are 2 billion jars. Because of the agreement with expert physicians, the cost of further reducing patient payment is over 3 billion. Then there are good goals to promote health care in the country, to increase the number of psychologists and mental - health professionals, and to support the multidisciplinary services of the health care unit. We return to the cost of operating and the price of stock being mixed together. This is to be done in construction at the clinics in the capital area, so the increase considered in percent to this category of languages contains a building at the clinics and setting them up. The review of this topic shows that we have to recall what we have won. ... inthelastpricedtime. We'll just get in on it here a little bit. During the last term, an important step in translucency was reached within the Senate welfare committee to reduce the payback of patients in the health system. That's the one that got hit. The General welfare committee was about 50,000. A maximum roof for the civilian, over 33,000 bucks. for children, the elderly, and the poor. When those laws go into effect on May 1, 2017, for being a month ago, they do not pass the council's approval, and this makes us feel utterly unacceptable. There are new laws that allow the maximum roof to occur in certain cases about 70,000 K. 46,000 K. In a year for children, the elderly, and the poor. A memory of the health - care committee stresses that these are not the sums of which would be achieved during the last term, thus stressing that the maximum level of health care insurance in the health system will be in line with the transnational resolution of the welfare committee and approved by the General Assembly in the summer of 2016. Before I say more about this: Then, financial laws were passed, and agreed in a sort of reconciliation, where everyone was so content or content with what was done there. That was even. To do so, and it was said in speeches that a new government would have to respond where there was no money. We in the leading category stress that in 2018 the next step will be towards a better payment system. We strongly emphasize the timing and practicality of a national budget on how dentists, psychological costs, and increased support for the travel of patients under the payment system. We also strongly emphasize the timing of the preparation system and health costs to one fairer system. It is important that all of these measures be clearly identified and completely financed. If we look at the government budget, we will find that there are over 3 billion people there, but there is no record of how to use it. It's very important that we see what the next steps are. The report then shows that under the new health insurance and services laws, health care is the first stop for patients. In the material development of the matter with a health committee in the past summer, concern about whether health care would be ready for this vital role, the care, and the service to do so. In the progress of the matter, it was decided to place extra funds, 300 to 1,400 million, to strengthen the health care unit in this role, and it was done. If this new role of health care is to be met, however, more is needed. Part 2 highlights the need for national health care and how to promote it in education and care for health care professionals. We have likely all observed that it is not all about health care but, also, if you watch the country, that it is difficult to get health professionals who are willing to work without being contractors and trapped there. As an incentive to get people who are ready to be medical or health - care professionals, we suggest that a system of catalysts be checked through the student loan system, to be watched for e.g. In an effort to improve the quality of a population in areas where there is a lack of a loan, a health - care professional at the National Institutes of Health can obtain a discount from student loans for X long periods of time. In this section, as in the hospital service section, we strongly criticize that basic expenses and operating costs in the field of health care outside the hospital are mixed together. It's making a wrong impression of what's going on. As I mentioned earlier, there is also. The building of the health clinics in the capital area mixed with the operating expenses of these clinics. Next, we have nursing and rehabilitation services, Section 25. Under this, there's a place of nursing and residence. Economic planning estimates that contributions to the topic area will increase by 4.9 billion and that there will be five new nursing homes for the duration of the programme. It's very well. On page 18. A total of 319 space, 261 new ones, but on page 68 of the State Department, says that this will be a total of 319 quarters. The 306 in the same schedule shows that there are 292 nurses who do not have the number. This is not consistent within the same schedule, and it is unacceptable that misleading messages are about where to go. We feel that no matter which number is right, it is far from meeting demand in the years to come, including due to increased numbers of elderly and existing efflux problems. We invite this to be revised. Also, a smaller portion by the information on how the 700 million approved by the General budget for 2017 has been divided or divided into the country's nursing home and will oversee the importance of receiving such information to the General Assembly. We stress that there is a need for care in nursing homes, and they receive payment according to their services. This means that we have an enormous number of homes in the country where the need for nursing is great, and they have a lot of nurses who care for people who have a medical facility but who are paid only for space. It is very important that there is a plan to work on meeting these homes. I'm going to use the remaining two minutes to discuss the need for infrastructure in the country. It focuses not only on health care but on the transport, education, health, welfare, and various other factors. As we've come in on, what? All council members who have spoken then spoke to groups in leading elections that there was a great need to respond to this infrastructure. As I said at the outset, we progressive people feel that the frame is too narrow to respond to the need. That is why we suggest that the bramble can be less than it is, reduced by half a percent, which is supposed to give us more money. At the same time, we suggest that there be a better way to slow down debt and give it to the national infrastructure. What a need! We all see that. As I said at the outset, many very good goals are set out, but it is difficult to understand exactly how to finance them. If I speak for us, or for myself, who sit in bed. The World Health Committee, the Generalist Committee, is particularly vulnerable to health issues. There is, however, a little more dislocated to the Ministry of Health. It was called for information, better damage to the field of health, but, unfortunately, it was not obtained. The final words of a second memory of the welfare committee suggest that the government's budget of independence party, restoration, and the future will be rejected. The budget for important infrastructure needs to be increased, as this report has been discussed. As I said earlier in my speech, only about 1/3 have I been able to review from the report that I returned to my senses. A member of a welfare committee and needs to give a second talk later in order to make an explanation of the points.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's speech. She rightly said that this is a vast subject and that it is difficult to review all the lawsuits in a short period of time. Hv. A member of the body spoke in particular about health matters. But I would like to ask about other lawsuits that are at fault. A health committee where there is no need. A senator sits in the first place, affecting housing issues. The projection shows that it progressively reduces government donations during the planned period. Hv. During the last terms of work, a senator took a very active part in the legal setting. It looks like, like I'm this plan, that what's supposed to be made up in e.g. Just no matter how much you calculate the case, a lay - up to the obvious need in these matters is simply not enough. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator only to his housing support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u164	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, this is one of the factors I criticized as a member of the welfare committee. It is unfortunate to see that housing support should be reduced, that this category is maintained, especially after what we all remember during the last term, that these cases had an extremely high level of time on the welfare committee at that time. All groups worked on one thing to find cross political agreement about the new system, both the general apartments based on the founding system - and it's odd to see it now, just months after it was approved and after this large transverse reconciliation was made to reduce this system. I am deeply worried about seeing that there is a steady decrease in funding for the seminary over the period of the state's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u165	Mr. President. It seems that the need for stock strength to build a tenant is actually seriously underestimated. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who has been concerned about these matters is that the plan to reduce housing support depends on the need for rent - house demand, especially in view of the fact that the threshold for growth is unchanged. Besides, they're not meant to be added. Then I would like to mention another matter that comes with a well - being committee, which is the birthworm. Now, we have members of the left green have presented a matter of prolongation of birthworm, which has been well-funded, as far as I can see. Clearly, this is not expected in a financial program. I'd like to ask you what. Of course, we need to consider how we are going to live here as children for the future. The education system is one part of it; another is the way we live our families, young people with children. [[The president calls.]] There's a big deal with the birthworm. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on her position.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u166	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We see this permanence requirement for a national financial budget, but I believe that it will be difficult to live up to the agreement made in relation to the amount set in the schedule. With regard to the birthworm, it is true that the matter received a tremendous deal of comfort. The welfare committee. Sadly, it does not seem to be possible to succeed where the members of the council are soon to arrive. I'm very into extending a baby's stock and I think it's a big benefit for children's families in the country. I also need to mention another matter that is closely related to this, which is the matter of the birth certificate for my assistant who is meeting parents who need to attend maternity services. I find it very painful and difficult to see that these matters are not even accomplished here and that they are criticized in a national financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u167	Mr. President. I'm here in a word exchange with the U.S. Congress, so I'd like to quote a financial program of 2017●2021, with the permission of a president: At the same time, significant savings in the high school system are expected to occur due to reduced study periods from four years to three. The plan allows for all the savings that will fall to be due to the shortcut to remain within the system and to increase the high school level even more. Is it not true that when it came to this conclusion, this was the key to getting high school involved? Now it's got the highest. Education ministers and members of the government said that because of their high priority in health care, this had to be removed. Do you see this setting of priorities in a financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u168	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Conspiracy councilman, Logi Einarsson, for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is true that the national budget for 2017/2021 provides a very firm basis for the failure of shortcuts to remain in the system to promote high school. In view of the tremendous priority in health care matters, I would like to say: It is evident in a financial program, so I am reasonable, that percent of the health issues are considered to be a major increase. However, the market costs and operating costs are being mixed together. They're mixing a building with buildings and businesses. Maybe they're using the savings from high school and high school to build clinics and hospitals, I don't know. But the cost of business is definitely not high.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u169	Mr. President. Hv. In his talk, a senator spoke of the need for more medical care. In fact, there would be discrepancies in the plan, but even if the higher numbers were used, more was needed. Then there is the sheer reality that nursing homes are being run here in the land, which are expensive at hundreds of billions of dollars. Is there any point in the program that suggests that the government will be reasonable in not allowing societies to carry the cost of accepting other services they render to the locals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u170	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. His question is correct when it comes to raising the number of nurses and making mistakes between pages 68 and 306; there is a difference between some nurses. [[Up front.]] - Yes, exactly, 31. In terms of a funded nursing home and nursing home, the General budget shows that there is a need to increase the number of nurses, but I don't see a fixed location on how it should be done or what the priorities are. So I'm afraid there will be considerable problems with these homes' cost of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u171	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I just want to start by being in the form and wondering about the senator how we can do better than we've done this time. It is noteworthy that more than a part of the welfare committee and the environment and transport committee yields an in-depth before the government investment programme is returned to us. We were, of course, asking repeatedly for a discriminatory analysis. So I have to ask the senator what he feels about it, if she believes that by doing her research duty, she is actually doing it as useful as she ought to be. I would also like to ask if it would be convenient for the future, when we're not just trying to compare investments and businesses, that we also distinguish the cost of pay; that he is put on a budget plan because he's such a big deal, so we can see what really goes on for the building of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u172	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator resists. I can say that all transparency is missing in this process. The cost of operating, stock costs, and pay is mixed, and it is very difficult to see what real build - up increases are. It is my opinion right now that if we're going to increase transparency, we'll actually figure out what the situation is, we'll have to divide these factors and we'll figure it out. It is quite remarkable that without the reach of any conflicting evidence in the committees of the Generals, they have not been obtained. This may give a clearer view of the situation, and it is very critical.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u173	Mr. President. I thank the senator for these answers. There are a lot of people involved, but I'd like to, because I only have a minute, to ask a little questions about the user - controlled personal assistance and the rural communities, the conflict that exists there. How does this develop? I'm worried about that, since our communities already have so many things in the so-called gray region, that the government does not expect enough to contribute to the seminary and particularly the percentage to the rural communities. A lot of talk about nursing homes. The plan says that there are five new nursing homes. The location of three of them is already in place. Did the committee ever discuss where the other two should be? If we're talking about an investment plan for the next five years, I think it's important whether it's ever happened or if it's just decided when everything's taken up. What kind of decision then?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u174	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The bill on MPA, the user - controlled personal help, is now at hand. The welfare committee. A review of the 2nd small number of welfare committees, from us candidates, stresses that funding will be ensured. There is also concern over what happens to people who need to. moving from country to country, because this funding is not exactly guaranteed. What will happen to people who, for example, have received the NPA contract in one of the rural society and not in others because of these funding factors? This was shown at the beginning of the night. The welfare committee that three nursing homes are in the capital area. I think there's one in A year's city, but I don't know exactly where the fifth home should be. This has not been mentioned in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u175	A respectable president. An increase of 8.8% in hospitals is reported in the majority of the aluminium. I'd like to know how it's explained, and whether it is usually explained, that it will do enough for the objective. In a financial programme, the policy limit should be submitted. Does it account for the status of hospitals in the country at the end of the period and explain why 8.8% is successful? I realize that this is definitely not the case, but the intuition of the members of the welfare committee may be helpful in describing the issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u176	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This increase takes place, but it is very difficult to tell if it is enough because in the schedule the cost of operating and the price of stock to the hospitals is mixed. We called for further evidence within that period. To try to get information about what this would really mean for the hospital operating position at the end of the program and now. The evidence was not obtained, so there is complete transparency, so it is very difficult to draw conclusions or to discern what is going on in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u177	A respectable president. I find this interesting because 8.8% doesn't cover promotions, so that's out of the question. So we are dealing with cutbacks, except for raise in pay. There is also a large rise in drug and medical costs. I'm just trying to figure out the scope there. The expansion there is to prevent what we put in the budget because we have always underestimated the cost there. But the cost at the end of this period has reached 1/4 of the cost of hospital operating, or half of the operation of all clinics. So you have to ask yourself again: Is this enough for the growth of more than 10% since financial planning was submitted? It should be really good to buy medicine and stuff, should be very positive for us, but somehow you don't have the hope that such a strong thing will work. Thus, the cost in this area can be enormously high.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u178	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator later responded. I'm very afraid of that, just like what's happened. A senator says here. The gang's really strong right now. It is unlikely that this will continue for the next five years. I believe this is one of the factors that weakens the basis on which the budget is based. Then, according to a review from the Akureyri Hospital, when they have tried to identify this position and once the total cost and the pay and the current amount are reduced, there is only a $338 million increase in the five - year period for hospital service. This is not enough for what was said in terms of election building up the health system, increasing staff and patients' facilities, improving access to drugs - it just doesn't work. Therefore, I suggest that this government budget be rejected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u179	Madam President. We continue to discuss the budget until the age of five. We are in the middle of economic growth, yet the economy is very complex. We are coming up from the valley of water, but many people and many organizations are still very low on the slope, having long, difficult trips before they reach the flatlands. We need to help everyone up; we must not leave anyone behind. At the same time, we need to pursue responsible economic government, put in place, deal with high interest, and intense eschatological changes. Improving and buying of the public has to continue, and much has been said of the need to develop a work model to the north. It is not just us who look down on envy in the Northland model that may have been built up primarily by peers there but, rather, are doing so worldwide. This system is based on three support, first of all, three-sided collective agreements between the labour market and the government, second, responsible economic government and third, social stability; a welfare agency that guarantees equal opportunities for all. You would have thought that these goals were quite peaceful, and that would be a ideal situation to ensure these support now during the unprecedented economic growth of the Republic of History. This is similar to a three - foot [three] kitchen cable if one of the pillars falls, the model falls apart. Many have been identified by trade unions and others that this social stability was greatly lacking and social support was not strong enough, at least compared to the rest of the North countries. And before the election, every group spoke this way, no wonder. People came to realize that in time to come, the foundation of life was not well cared for. The poor were not divided, and they were not well - prepared for those who fail. Despite all our resources and countless possibilities, we have not been able to use the opportunities to stand equal to our neighbors in the North countries. So, after the power of promise for elections, many excitedly waited for this victory, but sadly it was a real disappointment. Social stability is still under attack. All too little injected into a poor health system, and we continue to be semisaturs of the North countries at the time of each university student's donations. At that time, too little money will flow to transportation, leading to the continuing collapse of infrastructure. There are no clear promises to strengthen a person's position. Today, rising housing costs consume all the benefits of too many of the improvements in economic conditions. Individuals and families are struggling to bring life to a very low pay on predators and unsecured housing markets. Whether to pay bills, to give their children the opportunity to engage in leisure activities, or even to get the necessary health care. The consequences of poverty, Madam President, are known to all; insecurity, inefficiency, social excommunication, shame, and at worst malnutrition. Now, fortunately, most of us have had a bearable and the standard of life for many of us has certainly improved greatly in recent years, but life is neither index nor average, and one poor child is one too much in a wealthy little country like Iceland. Under that rule, the highest. Social Minister of Þorsteinn Víglundsson in a special discussion of poverty. In fact, there he claimed that it would not be a matter of intergrouping for action. It would be good if we did, but unfortunately, the fact is quite different. You see, the government doesn't intend to use the tax system to settle the country's terms. The tax system should not be cut off by step, nor should the government promote capital and capital taxes, nor does the government shepherd the application of the much limited resources of the country. In other words, she skips a raise of 10 billion that would easily be enough to improve the items mentioned above. It is not enough that the parties agree for elections if they throw the campaign codes so hard into the trash when the finals are available. It is not acceptable to classify those who give themselves out to be the soft well - being groups for elections and then to become enlarged right groups thereafter. That happened in January, when the Cradle and the Bright Future threw the mask and joined the Independence Party - developed a yes. [[Transitions.]] In fact, independence also had become quite a centeric when the fall began to pass. The chairman of the Bjarts'future has made a point of saying that he sacrificed himself to solve a government crisis, but he sits in place of the Ministry of Health and is unable to finance the system he was going to fight so hard for elections. The second support of the Norwegian model is a stable and responsible economy. This is also one of the biggest decisions each government has ever made, especially in Iceland, where we have to deal with a fluffy Icelandic crown and a superhigh growth. So we need to make good use of the years to make the best of it. Therefore, proposals for changes in financial programmes, made up of more of the legal committees before the weekend, are strange and even dangerous. The proposals of the Committee leave a hole in the government business. There's 8 billion dollars a year, and 17 billion giant holes will be passed until 2019 C.E. No words are spent explaining how to replace it with new income or where to cut it. This is not a responsible economy. These exercises reduce confidence in the economy. They increase uncertainty, call for higher growth, and amplitude. The government puts high priority on the straddling, stabilising, while changing plans are now being made in a completely different direction. The government groups do not agree with this plan to finance the public service, even though contributions to hospitals, schools, and transportation are too low and need to be higher. There is no firmness and stability in the work of the government classes. In her policy, she creates more uncertainty than she spends. A greater proportion of the budget committees also play out the way to get income items, which have been found on the right in Icelandic politics. And a private vessel shall be the plain of Cheflavík, or part of it, the end of which is most profitable. Disrespect is ignored, which is involved in financing accompanimental operations. In the middle of the explosion, the government's main responses to private life and further tax reductions by reducing the upper level of the cost tax in 2019. This priorities we in the United States disagree completely. You see, now is the time to strengthen public income and strengthen starving wood, not to go to taxes that add to personal consumption, and not to privatization in the name of liberalism. We must not give in to the support of the official in blind faith, whether the Cheflavour Airport or the High School of the Year - Day Wall. These are important institutions, and it is amazing to see a government minister trying to get these organizations out of the hands of the government in a hurry without having any interest in discussing the consequences of this or providing professional arguments that support the subject. Our task is to strengthen our public business, our hospitals, our health care, our schools, and our transportation system. We cannot flout that responsibility and point it to a private driver. That the government weakens the government's income institutions in the middle of a riot is an irresponsible economic regime. The failures made during the last rise are being repeated and continue to run the same right - to - right tax policy as an independent party and forwarding during the last term, which will lead to an increase in the inequities in the country. A third support is about a responsible labour market model with realistic collective agreements that ensure equal and steady increases in cost to the extent available in the economy at one time. This foundation is also based on the strongness of the two mentioned above. It is a concern, therefore, that the government is now blocking both financial support and thus fueling market warfare. This, for example, would not have been too much for a financial program to explain clearly how the government approves of the promises made by a contract to legalize the changes in government life rights for public employees. In the agreement signed on September 19, last, between state and rural society, however, the largest public unions in the United States say that there are goals and conditions to be met by the president: It will be developed to match the approval of employees in the public and public labour markets as much as possible. This is, in fact, a clear recognition of the need to improve the interests of public employees, especially in large groups of women in which long education is required, in unions that will play a very important role in the future. Caring, teaching, and working science must be key jobs if we are to be decently successful in dealing with new realities, technology, computers, and self - abuses. The talks and members of the Oddd Oddný Harðardóttir, representatives of the United States on a budget board, are well considered. They're big, but we can make this space. To accomplish this, however, governments need the courage and ability to earn money and to make sure that everyone enjoys the fruits of the future, not just those who have the best of it. Those with most money and those with the best access to the technology of the country's resources will otherwise get richer and richer while poor ones remain. First of all, we need to build a foundation for new jobs. For example, it would have been far more wise to cut down insurance, rather than to reduce the value tax as it has been announced in 2018, if you see at any other level any reason to reduce taxes at that time. We don't have to reenact the university. It has been observed that the budget is much lower than it needs to be. There we stand far behind neighboring nations. In previous financial programmes, it was also promised that savings obtained from a decrease in high school would stay in high school. A new program has been betrayed, and even if there is a slight increase in figures, that amount is negligible compared to what disappears from the high school system. Strong educational systems and powerful innovations are essential for us to meet the tremendous changes I mentioned here. If the government fails to meet these challenges, the future will be a great blow to us. What do young and talented people face when they go out after school? Huge animals and unsecured housing markets; there we simply need to be much more ambitious. This is an urgent challenge and must be met if we are to match the northern countries and have better compete to keep these young and precious people, who are able to choose the world in all the way, here in the country. In other words, we need a large - scale tenet, which is not the cost of profit. We need to build at least one thousand apartments a year in cooperation with the labor movement and rural communities in the coming years. This is considerably more than expected in the current schedule. We're also having a soup about the vandals of the move-and-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go team. Of course, we need to do much better for growth and child development and direct the support to where it most is most useful. We need to pay the debt of interest. It is especially the people who are otherwise fleeing the interest load that is placed on our shoulders. The best way to prevent children from living in want and suffering the poverty of their parents is to improve child - rearing. Child damages are also important for young people who have an excellent income, but they are at high expense when they take their first steps in a housing market and pay on student loans and children, all at the same time. Added to that, the maternity is too short, and payment is too low. Madam President. We are talking about the group that will draw the wagon for us for the next few decades. Icelandic society simply cannot afford to address it in such a way in life, except that it is also shameful. During this discussion, members of the Parliament have spoken about the health system, and natural. Few things were said more than that in the leading of the last election. There's a lot of money out there, especially in the government business. It also uses the best money. It is ridiculous to throw money into private business when the public system does not operate fully and is fundless. There is an opportunity to improve the effectiveness of the public system, not to increase personalization in spite of the eternal song there. Of course, we need to reduce the payback of individuals in the health system. It is shameful for people to refuse health care because of financial problems. The figures show that the group is growing and far beyond what is known in other countries. Of course, there is a need for mental - health services and psychological services. One is both thinking error and time error. There is a need to build more nursing homes. We cannot continue to reflect on the problems that result from the State's apathy in the litigation of the land hospital or of the rural communities. As far as our societies are concerned, there are already billions of people missing the possibility of such a business. Because the arrival of rural communities into nursing homes is in a very different way, how unfair it is that the State does not live up to its share! Some of them are already paying very much on business, and they have to counterdevelop into legal services, sports, hobbies, or other activities. This simply impairs the competitiveness of the people they need so much. In the end, care must be given to older ones and micropunchers. We need to reduce the loss of income and speed up the induction for disability. I encourage all members of the council and those in charge are concerned with politics to examine the changes made by the United States that are in the spirit described here. For this vital work to be done, we need to make money, and we can. In the previous financial debate, some members of the Parliament came talking about the value of new jobs, saying, among other things, there was a turning point at the Council, that general political policies would now begin with a new work ethic. I can agree with the importance of policy development and the long - term financial agenda, but for that, we also need to take the discussion on a broader level and discuss all the factors involved. Because in the end it is about normal people of flesh and blood, and the discussion needs to be about what kind of association we are going to build. I want a community where all are participants, and each one is given the appropriate role; that men do what they can, and that no one is left out. You see, we are on the edge of a knife. We can fall on either side of the grieving. A growing number of people are shaving to themselves larger amounts of waste, and money is becoming bigger and bigger in the everyday life, even in the politics. Although it may sound dramatic, we simply need to protect the people's active democracy from the amassing money. We simply do the best if we divide the quality equally. V.E.G. During a speech, the social minister of Þorsteinn Víglundsson has done quite well with the consequences of unstable economic conditions. He said something along the way that in the collapse, the weakest have lost the most. If this were not to be a constant economy, they'd lose again. Yet, there is going to be an approved financial and financial programme requiring that there be a constant swelling of the economy in the setting up of health systems, education systems, and infrastructure. But we know, Madam President, that things aren't like that. Here's the mood swings, then we go down to the darker valley between them. Under such circumstances, this rule will make it hard to deal with, and there will be no room for room for man. Where, then, will they be carrying down? Where, then, will it be? So, what kind of weapons do they have in their cage? It is the cutting knife that will take the edge of health, education, welfare, housing, and head of the worst. Madam President. I still have a substantial portion of my speech, and I ask to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u180	A respectable president. Thank you. Logi A Einarsson's talk. I'd be interested to ask him about one point. During the last election campaign, the senator's regiment stressed health - free services very much and introduced certain plans on how to get there in step. I would be interested to hear a little more from the senator about how he would have wanted to see this financial plan differently so that the steps could be taken to that end. A senator, who was free - health service, spoke to them. It would also be interesting to hear a little more from the senator about other things you have seen, i.e. That once a service has been completely free of charge, we do not associate with it with the respect we are receiving it. How has a body of members imagined that it would be possible to ensure that patients could not be sent to unnecessary or therapeutic treatments, as we have seen in the most expensive and probably the only worst health system in the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u181	Madam President. We would have produced an entirely different financial program. In fact, the Union and the left green made their own budget, separately before elections. There they set out to earn money for the promises. In the unstable economic conditions we now live in, we have two possibilities, i.e. either to reduce activity or to increase taxes in order to earn money. We set out how we could, in step, move about to free health care. If you don't have to pay for them, someone might say you don't respect things anymore, but I ask the same thing to say to children's families and poor people and old people who can't go to doctors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u182	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It would be mild, however, to get it more clearly from the senator how he envisions that the cost of health free care could be financed, in view of the fact that the expense of the patient's involvement is here. In any case, in this financial program, we see that unfortunately we are not even able to fulfill the promises given when a new system of payment was adopted to lower the roof and that it would be a broader banks, we who are healthier, who take a little more cost to us. On the contrary, those who are the weakest, e.g. cancer patients or others who have chronic and difficult medical conditions, less cities. I always felt sorry that the United States and the Left Green had not made the wealth tax permanent, for I had never had any faith that the Independence Party minister of finance, much less the Minister of Development, would ever be a matter of making money permanent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u183	Madam President. To be a little more specific, we have talked about the step shift of the tax system, which is based on the fact that those who have more money have more than averaged with high - income levels. We've talked about a wealth tax. We've been talking about progressive funding taxes. We've been wanting to examine, without creating a risk for the sector, whether we can access more resources. We are all born with stocks in the nation's common resources, and we have the right to enjoy them, and they will never be more used than to defend the most ill in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u184	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm sorry he's not in his usual uniform, but it would have been nice to trade with him here on the floor. He may have a minute to take his clothes off. I especially thank him for the talk, for I agreed with many things. The senator said and the vision was as dim as it was. A senator preached was no different from what he saw in politics. There's a lot of talk about taxes and capital issues and other such in a financial program, and we've listened to what it says. Officers are talking about it, but I'd like to ask them why. A senator into what is actually a debt of the state's building, which was so deeply offended by the last election, but it's not supposed to be going on right now. How does that count? A senator from the Northeast standard that it comes out, e.g. in his ideal if his home-hours are not built up more than is expected in the current financial program in the offcoming campaign? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u185	Madam President. I'm sorry to cause you what you're doing. A senator is disappointed in his dress, but I think the members of the council feel that this munchering shame is better than when I show up on my shirt. The financial program describes saving as the opposite of building up. It is one of the wrong paradoxs there is. You see, there is no savings in letting wood down so that it will eventually be the only way to build them from the foundation. This is against my district, it's not good for all the districts of the country, but most of all, it's really no different than sneaking into the movies. It was promised for elections, and then it's betrayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think he hit the nail in his case. Here he spoke of how to finance public service. I've had a bit of a problem identifying this financial program. Even if what is said to be going to be done, how could it be financed that I don't even talk about it in the first place? Even outside council halls, governments talk about everything they're going to do? It is as if it does not necessarily harmonize with the financial agenda. It's like us or what. In some way, the management sector has re-defined what public service is. I'm asking why. A senator simply: How does he see that public service has a budget, with this cuts covered, which is impossible to speak of, even though in some crowns one can be spoken of as going up? [[The president calls.]] Are we here looking at the right document that will redefine the public service?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u187	Madam President. Yeah, I'm afraid it's quite right. Of course, if they ever become regional failures, and the situation declines, there will be no license to strengthen what they need most to strengthen. It is said that the taxes in the North are the highest in the world, but it is so remarkable that they also have one of the greatest pleasure in it. However, the need for them to be protected wisely is based on long - term and public standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u188	A respectable president. We sat with a Conspiracy Committee, Left Green, and Others on a New Year's Fund and managed to provide the health system so that it would not be fired by a sludge or need a cut-down this year. We now see that the financial program puts an 8.8% rise in the period. According to the same budget, a 9.1% increase in pay is expected. As a result, there is a relatively obvious decrease in pay or the decrease in the number of hospital staff. The same applies to the college level where there is a 7.7% rise, which is not enough to make any pay raise, just that part. What does it look like? A senator sees that the goal is according to a financial plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u189	Madam President. Well, you don't realize in this gym, do you? It's as if things are being dressed in hideouts, because there's certainly a considerable amount of money in health matters. However, many members of both Parliaments and local authorities have found that most of them are involved in building houses, concrete, but according to the changed population's age and the number of tourists will have to be cut into hospital service. I don't realize that being so shortsighted. I think it's a good thing to pee in his shoe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u190	A respectable president. I know this doesn't mean that there's any other changes like population growth and that's why there's nothing else in there. However, according to the opinion of the majority of the committee's party, an increase of 8.8%, which is outside the stock costs and beyond the framework. I can't figure it out. I didn't realize it until tonight, as soon as possible, what this ratio means to the level of pay expected. In fact, the pay increases are missing because of the decrease in pensions approved before the New Year's Eve. Remuneration is to be raised. Also, they are not expected to be paid in the budget. In other words, it is not just what they cannot expect, nor is it the promotions made by the General. Yet, the percentage is lower than the raises we saw.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u191	Madam President. Hv. A senator may be a member of the budget committee of individual figures considerably better. I think it's kind of scary to hear him talk about it and confirm it. This will just show even more how insignificant it is to go to a council and get yourself a minister's chair, and then just sit quietly and watch the computer as if you're not even listening. One day, it'll be the best. The secretary of finance to come up here and explain what he was up to and what he was doing, because I don't believe that the national short-term memory is so he can play that game again. Maybe he'll set it up that way, I don't know, but he'll have to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u192	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What an interesting answer! There is, for example, much to take if that is the case. We watch for a reduction in law enforcement, the hospitals cannot be filled, and God knows what else, at least In view of the details of the parties. I haven't been able to question that, considering any other evidence from the Ministry. Hv. A senator mentioned when talking about taxes and other such things, such as. ... itmayhave been a cutoff on the insurance bill. The left green and the Conspiracy have both proposed certain levels of income. I'd like to talk about the birth stock because it's been funded under money now, which I think is minimal, and we'd like to go up if we don't take it at all. A senator and me. Then I'll ask why. A senator would prefer not to raise a small share of insurance on the stock of birth orcs rather than to suggest a down payment on the fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u193	Madam President. I'm sure that's what you can think of. When I mentioned a reduction in insurance costs at this point, it was only in line that the government is losing billions because it's going to lower the value tax by 1.5%. I meant that if you're so badly affected by some freckle-Fresked-Freast-French-Iast-free bill, you'd better lower the insurance fees that promote small, medium-sized enterprises and innovation companies, but I wasn't suggesting it as an independent proposal at all. But the other can be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u194	Madam President. I think it's important that we consider all of this in context. We who have spoken of growing income gains, rather than opposing what the money - policy committee has said - the people here on the economy have simply said, "I don't think it's a reasonable way to reduce taxes during this high - speed period. " V.E.G. The minister of finance said it himself to the history of the State Policy that the government fund was in irons. And why is that? That's because there's a disaster in giving up money. That's why I think it's very important that we consider all of this in context. Part of what I think we should give up is a birth vacation fund, and that's what we've done. through the insurance bill. I just wanted to ask who. A senator, who has just arrived from the county government, especially the NPA and the service contracts. The bill is certainly on the committee today, but this is one of the gray areas in the rural community. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator who is, in effect, able to settle matters according to the state - and - country situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u195	Madam President. At least that's what matters. issue that rural societies are committed to earning money in order to live up to the Kingdom - preaching work. If not, they simply respond by trying to avoid giving the best possible service or by taking money from other judicial groups. This bill has to make sure that the income returns to the countryside. I agree in another way. A tax agent, it needs to be considered in context. The word " tax " has already come into disrepute only by speaking bad enough and often enough. In fact, the tax we pay to the State on our consumption is probably the very best investment all of Iceland will ever make.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u196	A respectable president. The independence government, the restoration, and the future put matters first. These include building up trust in the basics of society, including the U.S. By honor of good management and transparent administration. It was also set in motion to put health matters first and to increase the competitiveness of employment, as well as to emphasize human rights, environment and freedom of individuals with equal opportunities and diversity. It is, therefore, a pleasure to see the work we are doing here with the production of financial policy adopted at the council in April. and now we have a financial program based on that policy. Thus, all fixed committees began to analyze the classes under which they fall and to give their report to the program. The opinion presented here is based largely on their reviews. Surely, we still have a bit of a long way to shape the structure of this strategy. This, along with the special circumstances that existed now after the New Year's Eve, when we started off after election into the latter part of the council, with little preparation, has made a face - to - face with that procedure. This would have meant more time and better opportunities for regular committees to work on their own opinions and to analyze the suggestions presented here. Under these circumstances, however, we must feel that we have succeeded and that we have managed to discern the nudity that we will do and the opportunity to do better. Thus, we will be able to cooperate with our rural communities, and in the opinion of the Committee, we are encouraged to take economic matters for special consideration and even develop joint instruments that can benefit us from government of the government of the government. In this way, we will succeed together. The plan presents an increase in budgets that have been put aside during the last few years, and it is necessary to make significant improvements now. The increase in drug and medical products domains increases by less than 54% over the five-year period of the schedule, which is the second largest increase observed in this schedule. Only contributions to the financial reserves and specific financial resources have relatively greater increases and are being done to prevent much of the follow-up by means of budgets. Significant increases in percentages are also seen on transport donations, extracurricular health services and in disability and in disabled areas. In terms of money weighing the increase in budgets due to disability and disability, and then health care outside hospitals and transportation and communications. In the opinion of a health minister, it is challenged to consider the benefits of establishing a special control over the hospital's activities so that the administrative arrangement resembles more business practices in which economic measures are considered, not only, but that services and quality are guaranteed as well. In this context, it should be noted that the McKinsey report, which was published. In the fall, there was a special comment about the need to dive further into the hospital project division and to define it better, as well as the need for more efficient management of the system and the need to clarify land hospital priorities. Now I'm not an expert on hospital management, but I'm excited to see if an efficient management can be established on a broader basis, which is now responsible for the implementation and extravasation of the hospital's finances to name something. To do this, you need to identify your status, shape policy, and set measurable goals. The way that will reach that goal will then be just another vehicle or tool. There's a lot to take into account, but I'd like to stop especially from two issues that connect with one another. Today, tourism has become one of the largest sectors in the country, and the growth seems to be immediate. However, the government has not been a failure to shape a policy in the media. We do not know how we will react to the rapid increase in the number of tourists having a huge impact on the core and on the quality of our lives. According to one estimate, it is important that we already strengthen our perspective on the development of the sector, where the supply of aviators to and from the country has increased, and on this development, we need to give particular attention to and its impact on the economy and development of tourism. I want to add this to the information that will be of particular interest to the effectiveness of the article on our daily lives in order to cover the project and improve the services and experiences of tourists without affecting our own quality of life. In particular, for this to be done effectively, it is important to shape policy in such a large matter in consultation with stakeholders. First, we need to determine the conclusions we want. We need to know where and why we are going. Our goals need to be completely clear, and our goals need to be based on information that enables us to provide a horn. There is no benefit in pursuing goals that do not serve purpose. The way you go and the decisions you make, the best way to reach your goals, is the means to do so, but should not be a goal in yourself. According to one opinion, when most tourists are in the country, the change in the value tax in the middle of a job year, is not desirable, and a search for ways to reevaluate their plans, they need to be reviewed. Only discuss the timing of the change. For myself, I would have felt that there was more reason to appreciate the impact of the change in transport activities in economic terms, influence on rural development, influence on tourism interaction, and other factors. It is also important to evaluate the effects of the kroner gangs and other key features. The report also says that a greater proportion of the budget committees feel that there is a basis for a thorough analysis of the pros and cons of sending passengers to speed up the development of the inside of the shoe's shrinking. This is the best, but it also needs to be done with policy-making policies to ensure the introduction of the future funding of transport workers if policy measures lead to the conclusion that this is going to happen. And I reiterate that status analysis should lead us to policy and policy development. In the end, what steps will be taken to achieve that goal? Then there's the other thing that I want to give special attention to, which is especially related to the travel service talk. The Committee's committee notes that it is time to open up the discussion that the State looks for ways to convert the funding bound into the man - made bases of Kraffík, and use efforts to restore transport workers because such an operation would be an investment in transport workers. I believe we still have much to do with being able to make such a decision, because the discussion has not been made. But here is an introduction from me, and I hope we can succeed in this discussion. I don't want to repeat the bank sale, the payoffs, or sell the sale of communityly important parts of society. Such a decision must be carefully prepared, and it must be done in order to obtain an inspection. Ideas of taking the best milk cows out of the Cheflavík, by selling houses to the south of Chefavík to deliver private people, thus not come up to my mind. The pilot model of the airport is what we're supposed to watch as a whole because an airport is not just an air base building but a runway and another kind of construction that forms the entire airport. We will also set the goal of a private member of the local airport. We have horns to provide. It also has to do with a future development in tourism, which means that Keflavour Airport is one of the most important human activities in this regard. What are we going to get from getting a private driver to run the Cheflavour Airport? Are we just releasing money that will go into the Kingdom box or be used in another way? How, then, will we finance the development of Cheflavík to the future if we have already sold wood for building up our income? Or are we going to reduce the risk of developing it? This is a risk. The financing of the airport structure is not and has not been a problem, but income is needed to survive such investments. It does not meet the requirements for responsible practice to do anything without the fact that it is through policies and informed decisions to make so much changes must be made on the basis of the analyses and information that support the policies selected. Three main routes of sales can be taken at Keflavík Airport. First, the business can be sold whole. You can't just take out the shopping space. Airways must then follow along, and all the work that we do, where the road model of the field does not work if the income that is now used to build up has been taken from the stadium by means of a variety of goods, services, and goods. On the one hand, you could simply take the company public and sell them to attract private financial resources. However, the Kingdom should always be involved in such a group and in the field ministry of government and private people. Third, it might be thought that the holding itself would remain on the government's hand, while privates would rent long-term on some grounds. It is true that in recent years there has been an increase in the survival of private resources, management, and property of international air traffic in Europe. Is this developed by the interaction of economic problems and the expectation of continuing long-term growth of aviation workers, however, due to the reduced use of public bodies to finance such projects, to form regulations from the European Union. The interests of the public and private sectors are fine when it comes to efficient operating on the basics of transport and flying. Airports are generally fired on business grounds. Still, more of the European airports are on public property and are being run in part form. The mixed holding, however, is more common in Europe than outside the continent. There are only eight of them in full private airfields. Private business is by no means impossible on the field, especially when it comes to special knowledge and the experience of someone who can do things better than we can and both earn more money and serve more. But we've got to figure out where we're going, and we've got to be careful about running the field model. Taking out the power of income options, as discussed, in the non-flyed service that has been reported in commerce and services is likely to cause all the opportunities to get private members of the field, as the trend has been here, to be the case. Air - related management and inaccessible management are required to hold hand in hand so that the running model stays intact and is likely to be useful for private citizens to get to it. But as long as we haven't decided why we want to get access to a private person, we can't talk about the rest. I also think of reasons to reiterate and remind you that it is forbidden to transfer money that will be created by Istavia in Chefavík to other choices within the country. It is the European Parliament's financiership that determines the structure of domestic flights like other transports. If a five - man government of Istavia was to make such a decision, it would be to transfer the funds from the council and to five persons ruling in a town. Each man sees that it doesn't work out. I'd like to remind you of this, because construction of airports elsewhere in the country... but Cheflavík needs to take place and these decisions are made here at the General but not elsewhere. So my conclusion is that the continuation of the work involved in this series of issues must begin with policy. In this way, we will have the greatest success in putting our hands on the work that governments have not done in the past few years, nor will it matter where they stand. This assignment must not be delayed by an argument over Caesar's beard or by hitting political cones. They must now be classed as governments, and other classes must come together to make the decision the best possible outcome for our clients, the people who build this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u197	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to come straight to what she concluded her talk on, speculation about the Cheflavor airport, and selling property there. She has a fine knowledge of these matters, since she has been director of Istavia. I felt so swinging about this case, watch and on, and over my head as to who was the key reason why a private person is involved in this operation. If the terminal were to go to a private party, it would be a monopoly. This is the only terminal here to enter the country. Is there any benefit in bringing such loneliness into the hands of a private driver? Is it not necessary for the public to have these things under official supervision and thus make money from these, making arrangements for them to make according to the need?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u198	A respectable president. I knocked it out and in, it's right next door. Senator. That's because we're starting the discussion, and I'd like to argue with and against the idea that's being added to the Committee's Committees, and I think it's important that we do well in this discussion. We've been criticized, and I take that criticism seriously. I was thinking about it myself when it came to the idea of dating high school together, and it was far along. That's why we're suggesting that we start this discussion here at the Hall, I think it's important, but the purpose of it is actually not stated in the committee's opinion. It's an idea to reduce funding from the air base and into other transports in Iceland. If it's a personal goal, I don't think it's a good idea, in comparison with the structure programs ahead of the Cheflaví airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u199	V.E.G. President. I'm going to turn my song into a cross, though there's a lot to say about that answer. Hv. A senator spoke of a number of litigation classes. One case party falls under our commission, a professional health committee, and research. Organizations such as the Mergro and Food Organization have long been financed and are actually financing for the next few years. It was observed at the company's visits for the employment board that either the number of workers or the number of jobs would have to be reduced, as it would be far off if the funds estimated to these institutions were to be added to the projects they were looking for in the next few years. What does it say? In view of the fact that invisibility should exist and standards and other such factors as the need for institutions? Have they been used in these institutions, and why are they not guaranteed the necessary funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u200	A respectable president. I agree that I'm concerned about the work that goes by Merro, I agree, but that's the way we're not sharing money with a special agency in this program. In the fall of this year, we expect to find out how this will end. But I heard from the highest. The minister of this seminar class said that she would be interested in strengthening Hallro's specific activities. I just hope that she will take it well for review and prioritized for this important institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u201	A respectable president. Now I'm switching to a budget just where we were. A senator was together for New Year's too. We discussed there the health or hospitals, at least zero, so they didn't start in minus, and they don't have to be cut down this year. It's time to go to the top. A health minister may be grateful that others were on the watch there. With regard to the numbers we see in the financial program now, how we feel. A senator visualizes the landscape at the end of the year 2022 when this is clearly defined as a cut-off, for example, under pay conditions. In college and hospitals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u202	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out why. A senator. As to how I envisioned this, based on my salary development in these seminars, hospitals, and academics, am I right? I'm just seeing it all this way, at least. Of course, in terms of health care, big projects are building new hospitals, increasing nurses, and solving these flow problems, big and major health projects, of course getting paid in there. The way I see it - I guess it's why. A senator talking about the next four years - I just hope that we will be able to develop a complete policy and do most of the work, even though I cannot quite imagine how we will solve the recovery of the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u203	A respectable president. I didn't realize why. A senator has not heard the discussion since we were talking about raising contributions to hospitals 8.8%, while the pay development, expected in a financial programme at the same time, is 9%, meaning that cut-off is in hospital service. The university estimates an increase of 7.7%, also under pay limits. This will take into account the correction on the reduction in pension. That's why I'm asking. A senator: How can this be different from the fact that there will be cutting in these two areas and whether there will be a gang of cuts? Would a senator be willing to sign such a cuts?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u204	A respectable president. I heard the discussion earlier, but this discussion didn't take place on a financial committee. She's starting to appear here right now in the councilroom. We discussed only the box on a budget board. The depth of that information is somewhat vague, so I put my hopes at the top. Secretary of the budget can answer for the diagnosis presented here. So I'm not going to tell myself any more about it for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u205	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Right away. A senator spoke of the status of the tourism service and the effect on the community and all that I thought was a problem. A senator gave a fine witness, expecting that she would hatch by saying: "And that is why we should stop giving money to foreign tourists. However, it did not come, but it was to maintain the uncertainty that exists now since tourism began to grow in 2012 by saying: "We are going to continue to explore and explore and predict and projector. I want to ask you why. Councilman: Why is it not desirable to raise prices e.g. in hotel rooms on July 1? Why not? Isn't it just a higher price in July when most of the tourists are here and the biggest demand is for hotel rooms?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u206	A respectable president. I want to state that I support and support the government's proposal to raise the merit tax, just to make it perfectly clear. However, we took into account the statements made on the committee, and it would be pointless to invite visitors and get reviews if they were not taken into account. So we are opening up that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u207	Like from the Ministry of Economics?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u208	I'm sorry, for an inexperienced senator, the forwards are very unpleasant and take something away from me. But I just want to stress that I support this proposal. I would have personally supported raising the value tax on July 1, but these are comments that we took into account from the members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u209	Madam President. I'm well aware that the stakeholders sent us reviews of their nature, but we also received an opinion from a financial council where our most skilled experts said that they could see no reason to have this discount around the tourism, or to give discounts to foreign tourists. We're using the tax system to promote control. We use a tax charge to control and to try to influence things. So in this year's journey, we should not continue with this discount. But isn't it true that I've stopped raising the value tax for the trip service next year? Is that not obvious? Then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament whether she was describing the time she was talking about the Cheflavour Airport that she did not agree with what the committee considered, that the procedure should be intended to make transport investments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does she not agree with the opinion she signed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u210	These were two questions, so I don't know if I can answer both questions. However, in order to be clear, it is said that we would like to have a search for a way to reexamine plans for the worthwhile side, so I'm not sure if the decision has been made to cancel it. But how it ends in budgets in the fall must be revealed. I'm ready to agree with the Keflavour Airport, but what I'm calling in is getting the discussion. I'd like to get specialists and preferably foreign experts to identify their positions and advantages and weaknesses, I don't want to shut it down without being informed about it. As the situation is today, I don't see reason to change it, but I'm available for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u211	Madam President. I claim that a government budget is defective. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir as a senator in two which adds to the defect in my opinion. In the previous answer, I ask her why it is not published numbers showing estimated financial needs for institutions in the main categories where this is available, e.g. Environment Environment Agency. Such figures would be laid foundation for change numbers for the next four years. I know that certain organizations volunteered, but the numbers were rejected by the demands. This would, in fact, enhance the evaluation of a national financial programme in these seminaries, increasing the number of translucency. Does she agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u212	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with you more. I agree that there can be a complete increase in transparency in these devices. I'll agree, for example. It is difficult to see what is an investment and what is a business. As I said in my speech at the outset, we are living in a country that is properly mastered the new work being done today. I can't say any more than that all transparency, better information, even if this is a plan, if we can work this thing in any way, explain it in more transparency, I totally agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u213	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We agree. I'm glad we both see these faults. In my second answer, I look at every number, like a magic line with five numbers at the end of each section of the budget. There we see improvements or cuts each year for five years. For example, there may be a place where you can look. 100 million. K. increase from year to year to a particular case and then a 200 million different numbers for the next year. I ask myself, " How is this figure generally made? ' What is the background of changes between years? Is he a secret? An explanation of the change of numbers might enhance the transparency and provide an evaluation of a financial programme that we are, in fact, hardly equipped to do because of lack of information. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me here, too?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u214	A respectable president. I like transparency. I want everything on board and to be visible and clear with everyone. I can mention in this context that where I am and have been a member of the county government was the first group to open up the books. I agree completely with that, and I can repeat my first answer a bit, that the work being done now is not perfect. I'd like to make an effort to improve that, whether there's some timing at this job, the preparatory committee to win the opinion or database. I support all the information and transparency that can be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u215	A respectable president. I come up here to follow my statement to the Board of Education and Education. In the beginning of this discussion, I'm not saying in many ways that I don't disagree with the review of most of the General and Education Committee. It is large and does well to review the language fields under the committee and pass the financial goals, visitors, and key points that the greater part would want to point out. On the other hand, I was not completely satisfied with a particular point that appeared in the review of the greater part, so I thought it was a reason to send a statement of my own to the Committee. We received a petition from a financial committee that the Committee would discuss the following topic areas: courts, public security, civil rights, religion and judicial rights, culture, art, sports and youth, media, high school, university and other schools, and education and culture management. We discussed the matter with him, and he arranged for us to meet at the highest level. Minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson, Supreme Court. The Minister of Kristín Á. Andersen, Auður F. Kristinsson Þórisdóttir and Vigdís Steinunn Ingi from the Inga of Education and Culture, Erla's Helga and Pétursson Auðunn from the Ministry of State, Guðístístir Páll and The Óttarsdóttir of the School of College, Ari Gíslason, Kristinn Jónsson and Jónsson from the University of Iceland, Jón Eva Líndal and Róðsson from the University of Iceland, Sæmundsson from the Björg of Iceland, Björn, from the National University of Iceland, Þorsteinsson and the University of Guðmundsson from the University of Iceland from the University of Iceland, the University of Hafsteinn, the University of Inc. I'd like to use this opportunity to say, in view of the fact that I've made comments on how the General and Education Committee has worked on certain matters, I believe the Committee has done a good job in its discussion of the budget. It was very important for us to have these visitors, who offered us very helpful tips on what might be done better in the program. However, it should be acknowledged, and in some respects a person agrees with the comments made by the majority of the legal committees, that the comments or tips of the individual institutions were in many ways traditional and, as we know from the discussion of the budget. We can see that the communities, the Council of Government, and so many people are realizing this new legal environment, but it was quite marked by comments and reviews that came from these agencies as much as they tried, that they did not make direct comments to the objectives or actions in the program but were more in general about the box. There is something that I hope we will see in the coming years more in the reviews or in the comments given by one of the clients that will work through the purpose of the program and make comments as to whether they think they are useful or good or something that is possible to achieve by the framework or actions proposed in the schedule. Also comments were made, and there was something that I believe that all members of the committee agreed that it was very important, which turned to regular committees, professionals, would come to work in the financial program and that the committees of the II Parliament's office would need to be funded. That, however, is not a new discussion. I have mentioned to the President of the Generals that it would be most enjoyable if she left it behind as the president of the whole Generalis to consider that the government would receive a special committee who works primarily for the opposition. I know this has been discussed regularly over the years, but unfortunately it hasn't worked out. It was something that I tried not to forget when I was in command myself, how different the job situation is for the diplomats and the Ministry, and then the government opposition. This will help us in some way to work on financial programs and how we can better prepare. We have good staff here, but there is only a limit to how much it gets over. I can also agree with the comments that have been presented in the discussion on the importance of improving financial programmes, especially numbers production. We spent, for example. A considerable amount of time to talk about the evolution of a number of students within, for example. The high school system. It would have been very good if there had been a better report in a financial program, which the minister of finance recommended the basis for the forecast based on it. I see more of the budget agrees with this. You are concerned that shorter studies for a student's test are expected to fail to achieve as rapidly as expected on the basis of the plan. One of the big cases that were handled during the last term was a new court order. They discussed whether we were prepared sufficiently for this great change. It is also a suggestion that I think it would be very important to consider that both the budget and the contribution of financial programs in the future. When making a decision on how to handle specific issues, it may be difficult to pass the pay of judges under the conservative goal, which are legal. It is a advice that determines the salary and the remuneration of the judges. The more it points out, and I agree, it would be important to look into this arrangement when advice is involved. This is likely to apply to other parties under the advice of men. There are also tips that I want to agree specifically and to make in my opinion that go to law enforcement. In recent years, we've added funds to police projects. But the pressure has increased greatly. The police have indeed been put to the test, as have so many other factors. the number of tourists, a foreign labor force, has increased the number of inmates. It was a big change when police offices were reduced, and they were separated from the county office. The police were to be strengthened, but we are going to see if they're next. I would have very much liked to see more emphasis and clear measures on how we can counteract violence in our community. The present government, or four of its ministers, has made a decision to sign a joint declaration of action against violence. It's been in the U.S. Congress. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opinion to submit a Action Programme to help combat violence in the community. However, I find it difficult to see that some of the additional items are estimated to be on that project. As a member of the Committee, we had a meeting with the police about, for example, The city's security after the terrible incident when a young girl was not murdered long ago. There we talked with the police about the importance of promoting the presence of the police in central Reykjavík and adding a special investigator to a group of police officers who carried out their assignments. It was also noted that there was increased cooperation with the centering areas of entertainment. Of course, it would have to be guaranteed. I would have thought that what I've mentioned here would be a reason to say that there were measures related to how we're going to combat violence. I have also been deeply concerned that Gangamoths have gone forward, pointing out that there has been an increase in the number of emergency receptions, and what you are deeply concerned about is that strategist strategists have pointed out that the situation is more gross. To some extent, it is associated with pornography. There is truly plenty of work to do. We also see in numbers when I have asked about the incidence of child abuse, that reports of psychological, mental, or physical violence to children have gone up tremendously. It has been linked to a new process. The police in general have been working differently in domestic violence and have come to appreciate more fully the impact of violence in close relationships with our children. Sadly, these are all projects that are not listed in a financial program, but they are very important. Each project may not cost so much, but it can be so important for individuals and make our good society even more secure and better. A special meeting was held by Persian protection. It simply showed great concern for the Chiefs of the Persian Guard for the position of the Agency, of all the new assignments being assigned to it. In view of this frame, I would feel quite clear that we do not produce new European legislation on the realm of personal protection in the near future, except for perfunctory. We will not be able to follow it according to the current framework of the Agency. We see that the citizens of this country are increasingly informed about the importance of personal protection. As a result, there is plenty of work to be done. It is urgent that Persian protection can respond and guide and convey the needed information, as it should, about how we can better guarantee individual protection. But what I'm most concerned about is that in the Committee of the greater budget, we are not at all concerned about the affairs of foreigners and that there are no clearer suggestions on what we have to do to ensure that we will achieve the goals that the Committee, in fact, achieves the importance of ensuring efficient and rapid treatment in the applications of trustees, are being guided. The new laws on government finance are no longer expected to include budgets. In recent years, we have used the budget to respond, and more emphasis had been placed on the fact that under it only an unforeseen cost. This has certainly been true of the development of foreigners in recent years. In my opinion, it is very difficult, and it is something that the Foreign Institute has pointed out, to see how, on a large financial scale, the number of inmates will be over by 700 each year. You simply can't see on what terms the Ministry of finance is based by saying that number. In 2016, we're not talking about the future here. We're talking about the years past, so there were a lot of applications that we've never seen before about global protection. Posted applications were then 1,132. As we look at predictions for this year, it was noted to the Committee that applications received during the first three months of each year provide specific clues about the total number of applications that year. The number of applications in the first three months of 2016 was 136. The number of applications in the first three months of 2017, this year, was 224, corresponding to a 65% increase. If a comparable increase occurs in 2017, the number of applications will be about 1,870. In addition, there has also been an increase in other projects of the Foreign Institute, and we see that the statistics of the first quarter indicate at least Thirty percent more patent applications than in 2016. True, I had to double check those numbers and specifically asked our committee to see if this could be possible. If the number of applications for global protection is about 2,000 instead of the estimated 700, contributions to the seminary will need to be made in line with 7 billion instead of the 2 billion that are recommended to raise the donations. There's just no room for that. We know there's not been much money in the old State Department. I don't know that there is room for this at the Justice Department. There is a serious danger of taking money from other necessary tasks to handle this. They are trying to build a reserve to deal with unexpected expenses, so they have reserves within their individual products. However, it is a question of whether men in general expect the numbers mentioned here. Our new law is based on the role models from the North countries, and there are budgets in the same way that we do here today. We received this information from the Committee that the funds caused by a large number of refugees have elsewhere, e.g. In Norway, you have a topic contract between the council and the Ministry of Education, so a foreign agency would have access to money outside the financial programme if there were to develop fluctuations such as those that can occur in a number of applications, or reserves are placed much more easily than is suggested here. I believe it is very important that we not ignore such warnings that come from our institutions and that there will be no uncertainty about other tasks. An answer earlier today was made when I inquired about this that a discourse had been sent to the Ministry asking for information on what the situation was already like for a number of international protection applications. I think it's very clear that a budget committee has to continue talking about it. I'm sorry, Mr President, my time just keeps moving. I wish to go back to the rosary because I haven't started talking about high school at any subject or university level and much about the State Church. But this is one of the things I spoke to earlier. Because then I had tried to find out where the money was to receive the vagrants, and then we realized that it seems that there is a need to be added to the inmates as well. [[The president calls.]] Since this was one of the priorities introduced by the secretary of finance in the budget, I think it is very important that these comments be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u216	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She came into the high school position. I'd like to ask her a few questions about her. We know that book studies in high school were cut down for three years, and we talked about sowing savings back to high school. It seems that this plan has not been followed, and high levels of funds are growing in high school levels throughout the country. I'd like to ask you what. A senator can see how she sees the high school business going ahead of the massive cutting and whether the ideas and plans of uniting the High School of the Age at the Technical School should not have been made up in this government - based financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u217	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. As I said at the end of my talk, I was hardly discussing high school. We have spent considerable time since the council began discussing the high school position. I had here some conversation with the highest. Secretary of education, e.g. The future of training and training, as I discussed a report on what needs to be done in order to promote and follow up the existing policy. I shall admit that I was quite shocked to see, then, these ideas regarding the unity of these two schools because it did not come up with words, not shfs, shortly earlier in that discussion here in the conference hall. These changes are much between the financial programme that was approved for elections and those now after election. However, we see that more of the legal committee is responding to these comments. [[The president calls.]] However, I would have thought that there was something that a man should agree about, that the committee could not have agreed to bring a change proposal in line with the greater proportion of legal committees, though, to withdraw this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u218	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to ask her about the political regime that's supposed to run over the Land Hospital. Either way. A senator believes that the need to come over the Hospital for political administration and its role, whether it should do anything better than the current managers, whether they are the quality of the medical system and the land hospital has not been clear enough, clear enough, as compared to the information provided by a health committee and a financial committee, and whether there is anything left to it. Or are people giving up the political crisis over the normal wishes of the Land Hospital and its management of the need to improve money into a well - chosen health system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u219	A respectable president. That's exactly what I heard. I read about it. I just thought it was funny, and I'm showing that there's a perfect surrender for the management team, after a very short time. We haven't seen much of a health minister. There seems to be some suggestion to disseminate the pressure of the minister. I think it might be easier for him to be here at the council, answer questions, and reason on his case. Other health ministers have, including, done so. who have been my party. Since then, we have also recently seen in the statement of the president of Istavia, that it does not always seem to be important if there is a government over institutions or companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent review of the lawsuits she discussed, especially those under the committee as a result. A senator sits in. This is a big deal, and for us who are not on the committees and who have not met guests or heard the underlying issues must admit that this is often a small jungle. Because I know why. A senator who has no interest in this, I would like to use this opportunity to ask a little more questions about the legal matters that had come in handy here. Truthfully, I don't understand or divulge in that regard. There have been reports from either of the officials of the United States that this will even mean a decrease in the number of police officers. Well, maybe. A member of this microshort answer will come to appreciate a little bit more about how it can see evolution, such as. Just law enforcement in view of the current financial proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u221	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It shall be admitted that there was no time at all in the talk to go through law enforcement. As I have already requested to the president, I will continue to discuss these issues that are very important and important. Most of the money goes into it, except for natural issues the welfare committee has to do with it. Not long ago, police education changed. This will no doubt affect my husband's appearance. As I went through, this project has been added. Changes have been made; increased expansion, travellers, increase in the number of inmates I have also mentioned, all work that adds to the pressure of the police. And like other organizations, police had to take action after a crash that has been difficult for them. What has been happening in recent years is that humans have tried to rebuild. It's constantly referred to. We'll get some programs that we'll be dealing with. That's what we'll do. [[The president calls.]] But somehow it has to be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u222	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It may be fun to ask for a review of such a vast case that no longer is available to us, but I would like to continue asking about this subject. I find it very interesting. Hv. A senator introduced many important aspects of law enforcement in his excellent speech. She listed a very important project, even new projects and new avenues, that were being developed and tested, which had given good results. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is some doubt in the question that there can be continued with many of the good work done simply because money will not be found in it? That it will directly affect these activities?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u223	A respectable president. I sure hope you don't. We are all struck by news coming from foreign lands to the security of the nations. We also hear constantly because there is a growing international crime in the community. Although I haven't mentioned it in my speech, I think it's very important to build expertise in the police that is involved in Internet crime. It has been noted that one of the reasons why burglaries have been reduced is simply that using the computer to rob is much more important. It is even said that it is better to just leave your passwords at home than to put them on the computer because it is much easier to approach them there. These are tasks that require a great deal of expertise. We have good people, like all over the police. [[The president calls.]] I would've liked to see there a much more targeted policy and that it wasn't always referring to some piece of paper that's going to come, but it doesn't seem to follow any money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u224	Madam President. Now the government's going to be in until 2020, I understand, but there's a budget of 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u225	Oh, my God, you're having a pessimism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u226	We should have assumed that the government's treaty would more fully reduce the lengthy approach to a policy. I cannot find some of the national policy objectives in the Treaty in the pursuit of a government budget. I'll figure it out, like. Not exactly what the Constitution says, by permission of the president: It is necessary to promote a teacher's education in response to a reduction in the number of teachers and to reduce the attendance at teachers'studies. There is no shortage of graduates. I think it's 50% or something that just prefers to work elsewhere. We must be talking about it because the reward is too low in teaching. I couldn't find it, but is there something in the financial program that expects income to work on these things? [[The president calls.]] This is also in accordance with an agreement made for changes in pension laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u227	A respectable president. I think it's just a very good tip for a dog. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson. There would be reason for a minister of education to be present and to listen to the tips involved in his language field. This is a real concern. We have pointed out the importance of the committee's referring to a lack of teachers. This problem, however, is not just a problem with Iceland. If you read reports on the required study, you will need to increase the number of students, such as. In Sweden, where education is referred to in the future, a teacher's education is mentioned there. They also talk about caring for the welfare; nursing; and everything related to health care and care of people at both advanced and university levels. Then they're talking about engineering, technical education, both college and college. [[The president calls.]] This would be one of the things we should deal with and get clear policy from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u228	Madam President. Thanks for that. It calls my attention to a political treaty that doesn't fit as far into the future as a financial agenda should. Some excel cop or woman here at the council might be able to drive in the financial program and what they don't, for this also speaks of working systematically to secure children of nursery space and day-to-day when maternity leaves, with a joint effort of state and community. How much do they think it's gonna cost? Do you think that rural society will one-sided reduce the age of children who enter a nursery without changing their income from one country to another? Madam President, we have to work together, in effect, to see if the promises had been betrayed before the financial program was submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u229	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage you. A senator is now not asking too much of the government classes. During discussions at the council, it was noted that men should not take promises too seriously but that they would be more voters, likely to encourage voters to vote for them, but they would be more in control when the time came to rule the country. A fine example of this is the worth - increasing tax change, which surprised many. An obligatory part of the management team, too. They did not seem to have remembered talking much about it during the campaign. I can't say much more, but it might be better to do as we graduates have been known to do; we may not promise much, but it may be a big promise that we make, but we do our best to keep it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u230	Madam President. I'd like to agree with your criticisms. When a senator criticizes that a majority of the budgetary committees do not make adjustments, he puts out texts, such as in the high school section, which says: the more part considers it a reason to reevaluate the maintenance requirement of high school...◯ Then it is said that the money set into the budget for 2017 will be continued in 2018 - but it is not there. What's the point of saying this? Is the text of a greater part of the legal committee more like this in order to accept the discussion, as was the case with the Chefvík Airport? On the other hand, the Conspiracy has proposed a modification proposal. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she has studied the adjustments both in high school and in college. And if she has, how would she like to handle the problems at school today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u231	A respectable president. This is shown in the review, which I expect to be able to do better in the next talk, where I refer to the changes made in financial programmes ranging from 2017 and 02021 regarding contributions to high school and then now 2018 in 2020,2022. The first schedule expected that donations would increase by less than 12%, as is true of the period, but in this financial programme the donations should fall by 0.6% annually. Unchanged 2018, then dropping. I'll admit that I've been reading through reviews and opinions, but I haven't been able to make any changes from the United States. Following this suggestion, I will certainly study it. I suppose we in the Congress will review the proposed changes and emphasis on putting away and accepting those we agree on. I would have liked to see it if it's something that all members of Congress agree to conflict with what we wanted to do, of course we should accept it. [[The president calls.]] We could all have had them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u232	Madam President. I'd like to say something, too. A senator when she speaks of the concern of law enforcement in the country. I remember it was 2015, rather than 2016, that I received a written answer on the number of cases per police who turn to individuals with a foreign social security number as well as a number of tourists per police officer. This has increased dramatically in recent years. The pressures of law enforcement in the country are so intense that we cannot expect them to take full action against violence, violence against children, or domestic violence. That is why I feel that we need to place money especially in those litigation classes. We must promote the law enforcement in this country in order to provide security for its inhabitants. The union has also made some adjustments in the terms of law enforcement. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. To learn about it, a senator asks which way to take action to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u233	A respectable president. I noticed as soon as this financial program was established, when members of the Parliament began discussing government and government opposition, that in replying to officials, it was not important that this financial program was of no importance. It'd just be a little bit of a hieroglyphic gig. I know how important this document is. This is where the framework is assigned for each Minister, each Ministry, each topic area. Everyone who has been in the council knows the sentence that comes from the Ministry of finance, and I expect the Senator himself to recognize it well; that this is beyond the framework. And what kind of fight it is, a real fight, fighting for getting something back into the frame. I encourage the Generals to realize the reality behind the green button on these suggestions. [[The president calls.]] They're not there to paint, it's real.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u234	Madam President. I'm thinking of first commending the highest. Economic and financial ministers for taking up this discussion and being in the audience. Even if his body language is not fanciful, it is respectable to the highest degree. The minister will treat this discussion with respect. [[Up front.]] Other ministers might imitate him. I have to say that this government plan and development of events on the basis of government law on finance has all brought me great disappointment and growth. I was interested in being a secretary of finance in my time, and on as a man who has long struggled with government and economic matters, that we were bringing these matters to a better place. Some of us are certainly doing so by means of law code. Sadly, though, not everything has been successful. In the end, when the law was passed and are now under their rule, people drove ahead in conflict. As if that were not enough, the present government resorted to putting an additional barbed - wire fence into this regular work with a special charge panel. Thus, the total government spending must never exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product, just above the limit it represents this year. There's no room left. Then comes this great and multibubble financial program to five years of age. It is deeply disappointed in both its contents and its presentation. There have been many members of Parliament, many of whom have been criticized. I'm saying: There's nothing in the government law, nothing in this methodology of five years old and a box requiring that financial programs be presented in this way. Nothing. It is quite difficult to grasp the contents and almost break every good rule in accounting and the presentation of financial information, in the financial program of the State, the government, until the next five years. Or since when was it possible for Latin to round up all numbers in investments, building, maintaining housing, operating expenses, special projects? But this is done. And there had to be a crippling out of the budget, especially the Ministry of finance, the information on the disintegrations that were obtained in some cases and others were not. On the welfare committee, the Department of Health asked for our first meeting to go out and get our shared information for us. What is new to the hospital staff? What Is a Buyer? What already has a special task to delete the lists, or introduce new drugs, or what is it now? We wanted to see what was left for business. That information never came. Even worse, it was after a nursing home. There are none and were never provided with information on the cost of growth, maintenance, and operating. There are three fast - moving figures of building three, but in some places five nursing homes, and in some areas some 261 and in some areas some 290 spaces over the next five years, there are no conditions to which they really need to expand. It's impossible. I must also say that the treatment of the council, of course, was of far too short duration. It has to be changed. The timer must be adjusted to this, should be a working way to handle these items properly. The plan must be conducted at the latest of March 1, so the Council has at least three months to work on it. And there is no point in doing so. Of course not! The Ministry doesn't need anything in April to put this together after the work programme is started. In the fall, it is more likely that the budget should be done over time than to throw it into the hands of this work. Many reviews severely criticized this. I don't think anyone's secret was that when this plan came out, it was over the General Assembly. They began to try to figure out what they would expect for the next five years if this became the reality. The health field, the Landspians, the colleges, the high schools, the police, the National Guard - give me someone who was happy. So I've missed it. Except the board of directors, especially Backward and Bright Future. For some strange reason, their self - destructive campaign into this government has led them into the process of exhilarating themselves with the satisfaction that each person sees what sort of shipwreck this is among these categories. To write such uncritically on the right of the Independence Party. Of course, more and more mistakes are involved. Now all I have to do is get to put up with it, just put my ears in the process. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Much of the problem lies in the big mistake of the last government, which set off the old New Freeism Street: down with the government's income level and closing into the welfare and the sharing. The second bank assesses that in three years, 2015, 2016, and 2017 in the current year, there are 2.5% of gross domestic product. There's no small amount of money. 60◯65 billion francs. And in the previous two years - this we know well who were here during that year - this relaxation was on the income side, i.e. the maintenance of public funds was reduced because money was reduced and put in circulation in the economy. This results in the reduction of the financial resources in the economy. Under what circumstances? When the economy is sailing to the top of the economy. When has this happened before? In the years before crash. This is exactly the same mistake that the Allegatory Committee strongly criticizes in its results in the 2010 report, stating that the tax reductions in the years prior to collapse were oil for the fire of an economy, which was due to the industrial investments that had been squeezed into the economy, etc. Then you might ask, " Why isn't it on now? ' Why isn't there a collapse? This is because we have reached the point where we are ever closer in life. Over the years, especially in 2015 and in 2016, we moved in prices from around the world in the form of a reduced oil prices and reduced prices of raw products. But now this will not lie down with us anymore, or I'm just hoping that it won't. For where should we go if the crisis should continue to keep the inflation down by getting stronger for the next year? Where would it end? No, these devices have now been emptied. What, then, should be kept under pressure in the economy when such dramatic mistakes have been made, which are now bad enough, and should continue? You're supposed to keep them there, unfortunately. It really is. This is a major problem in the way to the community's affairs apart from the dangers of economic control. This means, for example, that the frame is so narrow, it has been taken up by a lot of the state's solid revenues that humans are in the most extraordinary trouble. And they lie together on optimistic predictions of continuing substantial economic growth throughout the programme. If it doesn't go along, or only partially, it's all upset. Then this plan is totally shallow, as smooth as it is. Government officials come and launch figures about a huge increase in the number of names for expenses. They say, "Yes, there's such a huge increase in this and the other. " For the most part, it is blown out by investments, e.g. in the health sector, the hospital sector. But is it a good guide to say: "We are greatly increasing into the future in a plan that is based on considerable interest? Then I'll say, "Except what?" Perhaps even the language groups were not even to be allowed to share in the growing national income. If it becomes reality and we get so lucky, if the unique event in Iceland happens to be that the longest economic growth in the republican season it's already been goes on for another five years? There's more wonder and wonder if there's going to be no trouble. And even if someone ever comes to relax, as usual, it will be to become an entirely soft contact landing. It's all the same old ones. Do you remember listed in 2007 about the contact landing that was then ahead in the economy? When they stood here, the genius minds of the element said it was all fine because there was a soft contact in the economy ahead. Was it contact that came in October 2008? No, I remember there was something else. Here the prime minister of 2006 said that being a prime minister in a country like Iceland is something that was so successful. And I really feel that the same complacency is more and less attracted to us right now. Let us take a closer look. On page 18. 16 In this suggestion, there is a very informative figure that has entered there by mistake, for it is certainly not meant to be shown on purpose. It shows how the development of the co-administration will be over time. The combination is a very important factor in this process, it is what we have for our own well - being, and it allows for the removal of investments and other factors that are not included. Where should she go at class? Down for the 25-year average. Down to 23% of GDP. How did she get there? And when? She couldn't reach 23% till the turn of the century. It was because if we take the lead in 1980, the welfare community in Iceland was not like what it is today. In other words, the share of gross domestic product, the slice of the cake, below and beyond the turn of the century. This is a far more important measure than extant figures for what should be listed in some lawsuits in the years to come. We won't be fooled like this, we who know how to read these things. In the name of the term, the primary charges should remain in a similar position as a proportion of gross domestic product, releasing 26% of the programme time. But total income and total expenses go down. This can be said with a little simplicity that is due to a reduction in the total cost of interest, a decrease in interest rates, a decrease in total cost. But the initials remain largely unchanged. Why, then, does the combination decrease? Yes, it is because it is the investments, the new building of the Land Hospital, and so on, that is how the budget works. Represcriptions that the business is tighter than any other. Real budgets are pressing for their own business and welfare. That's what I'm reading out of this. And there's a big misunderstanding that in this period of building up. To that end, the share of the budget, and especially the share, had to be increased. And it must be raised, it must rise, and it will rise because the nation will not be permitted to do so indefinitely. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Why does it have to go up? For two main reasons. The number of Western nations with similar ages and advanced ages in the communities is calculated to increase. The cost of well - being and care is totally increased in countries where elderly people grow to become larger and larger sections of society. Under this, everybody's getting ready. The other reason, and it's a bit special for Iceland, is the accumulated need that the difficult years and actually a year further back have left behind. We have not invested in infrastructure, and what we need to run here a good modern society, far from the past few years. Thereby, the need is raised in ruined roads, uninhabited houses, unfinished equipment at high school and college, etc. and will be more and more as this continues longer. When will we meet this gathering need? It will not be different, however, that this proportion of the budget and the combination will increase somewhat over the years, at least, while working up the leeway. Thereafter, we may find balance in some new capacity. It's very simple. And this plan is not relevant, examined on this standard. It is a check for continued starving policy for the next five years in the spirit of the novelisticism, the right course, which has already been misinjuring us in Iceland. It doesn't need any more of that tobacco, not at all. Mrs. President, for some strange reason, I had so little talk time that I could not get into what I should do, especially acknowledge my opinion as part of the social committee on this aspect. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The opinion is found as part of the committee's committee's section 1 and on a few pages, and they can only read it. But basically, I'm going there with all these teams and I'm afraid I'm going to find some sad conclusion. Hospital service failed to tolerate examination. It was found that in the next year, there will be virtually no growth of anything to be done on an investment and special project. Joint medical services outside the hospital: It is not a better story to tell about. As a result, we are protected by health care, which is the most important part, that we could never get any information about what lay ahead in our investments. Never. By accident, by accident, a clear presentation by the Ministry of Health showed that the health care facilities in the gang should be replaced. It was the only information. There's nothing about it here, nothing from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we never got any further information from the Ministry of Health - but it was a problem with the cornea where it was suddenly found that the health care facilities were being replaced in the gang. But what about the clinic in the city center, which is cracked? What about the station in Mosfellstown, which is cracked? What about Sólveig's health care at Hafnarfjörður, which is cracked? What about the health care at the hospital that needs to be doubled? What about the health care at Akureyri that's losing its place in the next few years? Zero. No answers. No information. And there will be no more large investments left behind. Nurse's Home and Rehabilitation Service? Of course, there are nursing homes with 40.5 billion for the current year's budget. There's a very confusing text that some have been in before me during the discussion, such as the discrepancies in the number of nurses. But one thing is certain, and it's that even if we take the upper number, it's almost half of the need they're supposed to need in the country just to 2020. So awesome is it. Let us remember, then, the situation - the growing number of elderly, the graduation problem at the hospitals. This will not improve. And that's how I could keep counting. I believe that in itself the situation is disability and issues of disabled people are extremely bitter. It is quite clear that it is those who live there and their spokesmen who are very disappointed to see the figures put on paper for the next five years. They do not meet any human expectations for something better to come. There are small ones who are to be inserted into the process of making a ◯cludable change in budgetary arrangements to be made to the elderly, and values were taken on January 1 of this year. Pure pennies. And there will be no way for the poor to be replaced by the whim that they rightly point to. In the case of the elderly, however, it can be said that they enjoy the increase that took place in the budget of the present year, but there is nothing beyond that. Mainly, it is said to the elderly: The overall ideal for the next five years. And no further share in improving national interests. That is what they say in English. Prosperation, housing, child support? This is very tragic. A family business, including the maternity, is absolutely ambitious of this government. Well, there's a lot of young people talking to each other. It should not be extended, not to place floors in payment, to continue cutting out child damages, and finally to make them totally cruelly linked to total poverty relief. It is the spirit that is proclaimed in the suggestions. And that's how I could keep counting. House support? It should be reduced by half immediately following the commitment of the last agreements. The result is simple, Mrs. President, who I've tried here to back up: If this program isn't made a fundamental change in the spirit of the one that changes our left green and long-lasting organization also goes on, step down the box clearly and prefers to increase the rest of the state funds, then to throw this piece away. [[The president calls.]] Tilt it down the toilet. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u235	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a very good talk presented in genuine English. Actually, I'd like to ask you what. A senator in what I heard was coming on at first, which was the payment note submitted by the finance policy adopted here at the General Assembly when we discussed this 41.5% roof that the government expenses were not allowed to exceed from GDP. I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to ask you why. A senator whether he -- though he has agreed to this, these are closely related issues - is not concerned about the way we should go, if national production comes together, to hold out my services, whether he can address my concerns about the fact that this right government is going to have a private friendship to keep a basic service in the country, or whether he is unduly concerned about the roof set there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u236	President. Hv. A senator rightly asks how dangerous this roof is and why I feel so bad about it. That's two reasons. At the first, I spoke in detail in my speech, i.e. I believe this ratio of both state and rural areas needs to be increased. Let us not forget that this is all covered, on public expenses as a whole. And there is so much need to be made up of both the state and the community to make up for the past and pay off on debts we've raised in ruined wood and roads, so this roof needs to be higher. When you're doing well, there's nothing wrong with temporarily higher. The second, of course, is that. A senator said, if you hit the sponsors, you're naturally so insanely stupid to be trapped under the roof right away. If domestic production is intertwined, it simply reduces the direct limit of this roof, unless emergency measures are under way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u237	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the answer, that was very clear. Me and what. During the last term, a senator served as a member of both the World Health Committee of the Generals and took part in trying to cooperate with the patient's payment system. We worked on a deal that was about 50 thoust. K. Maximum roof for the civilian, 33 of you. K. for children, the elderly, and the poor. But now, as the law goes into effect, these approvals of the council fail, there are 70 of you. K. and 46 yous. K. I'm asking why. A senator whether he or she is seriously concerned about it and that even making decisions like this better in law, rather than in the viewpoints of the committee, in order to achieve the accomplishment of our plans. I have to say for myself, as a matter of course. A member of a welfare committee during the last term, that I was greatly disappointed in seeing this. For example, if we look at the budget done here last year and discussed in talks, the government that was going to add to that issue would be the goal of transpheric reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator was not disappointed to see any clearer steps in these matters in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u238	Madam President. I believe it was a very important agreement that last year was successful in the new payment system and in overcoming the plans of the bill that went out on 92 levels. K. roof. True, I have to say fairness because I'm not sure that the welfare committee of that time and the Ministry spoke clearly enough when men met about this 50 levels. K. roof. The Ministry continues: Yes, when men have the story and even over a month behind them, the cover is 50 of you. K. ... buttheymayjustcomeup to 70 yards for a while. K. etc. We know this a little bit. But the present government promises to continue to reduce the patient's payment. Of course, this does not happen anywhere. I think those plans are way too much in the air. Of course, you would have to start by putting the roof of absoluble and actually down to 50 of you. K. We have hoped that, in turn, people would be able to combine the expenses of medicine and health care, with such costs being very modest. That's what it takes. [[The president calls.]] It's not a big deal in itself. If you want to make health care available to you in this regard, that's 6.5-3.7 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u239	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking you too. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a very clear and clear speech. I wanted to address certain issues in his language, including ... aboutinvestment. The need for infrastructure development has become urgent throughout the country. We're in a lot of economic growth, a run-in, and the evidence we're getting is that we need to watch out, that's so much expansion, that the economy is so hot, etc. I wanted to ask you why. A senator will see how he feels about this policy in the country where the map is not all over the country. It is in a limited area, and it is clear that investment levels are very low in many areas. [[The president calls.]] I would like to hear thoughts at ease. A senator's investments and how we discuss them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u240	Madam President. It is a faulty arrangement to always view the government's investments as some economic tool and screw them up or so down. They all need to be equal and regular because we need to maintain our infrastructure and protect our community's property. Second, investing is important. The obvious rule is that if you're going to make investments, especially in an economic system, you're going to have to finance each dollar with your new income. It's obvious. At that time, you will remove money from your investments. Only then can the job market be excited and all that is needed to have an inexhaustible effect. Third, scattering your investments. Hv. A senator refers to the region. I wonder if she's killing men in many parts of the West or Eastern Europe or where it is. Then have I said, Let us try to distribute our investments to them, and let us work on a medium-sized project. There's plenty more to sustain the malarways and so on. [[The president calls.]] There is no special impact on real estate markets or construction here in the capital area, although we may do a little better on the Bárdar Valley road construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u241	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. I agree with what was presented in his talk about the transparency of the financial agenda, which does not distinguish between management funds and investment funds. Our main infrastructure is badly affected, i.e. The medical and school systems are designed to form. In fact, the government is providing wealth in transport matters, quite easily. I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator has that to say. And finally, on the forwardness of this work, in terms of the need for harmonisation between transport plans and financial rural society, the rural communities are virtually left behind. There is a huge flaw in financial planning, how the communities should produce. I'd like to hear about this from what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u242	Madam President. It's a pretty big deal. First, about their communities: They complain about it themselves and have said that the recovery they are being planned for economic policy in the winter and again is completely unrealistic. Regarding transport, they are closely linked to investment levels. It is simply so that the level of government investment is far too low. That's less than half of the historical long-term ratio. Is it not a 1,4,61.6% of gross domestic product? This does not result because countries and rural communities combined achieve 2% of GDP in investments. In order to maintain a stable disappearance with its infrastructure, the government needs an average of 2◯2.5%. That's our big problem. And the transportation, especially the road construction, the biggest case group, and the traditional largest investment team in the state, of course, is going to be a total mess. It's just completely unsatisfying. [[The president calls.]] The most incomprehensible thing is that there are 8 billion smudges in collects on the markets of the road industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u243	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask came into his speech earlier that he had long been interested in the nation's economic affairs and had cared for in part as a minister. What would he have done better in this financial program if he were in the office of finance minister today? What exactly does he think he is missing? That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows how such programs are being carried out in the countries around us, in Norway, Sweden, Germany, the highly educated nations that we believe we are equal? There seems to be some mismanagement of our affairs, for these nations are not falling apart around us. What does that count? The senator's need? And when compared with such plans in the countries around us, what is it that we are doing wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u244	Madam President. Personally, I just like to walk on mountains or do anything else than think about economic matters. It's only been my lot for a long time in politics to do business with them. Well, maybe that's more of what I was saying. Do I know anything like work out abroad? Yes, much of this example was to be applied to Sweden. That's a regular plan. Of course, we've been talking to her in Iceland for a long time, and she's been in some weak form, along with documents of financing and so forth. In June 2009, we moved forward our first five-year program to try to map out how Iceland would cope and work out the challenges. They had no unusual time then or convenient circumstances for them, but we did. And then every year thereafter. There were some very good plans in 2009, 2011, 2012. And there are some nice books. So it is not as new under the sun as humans may want to be. This is new in the sense that this is now part of a law, part of a legal process that has been put around it. I'm not criticizing the process myself. Now, there are two main reasons why I'm critical of this here, the contents, which are too little, and that's the phrase, it's too transparent and there's no reason for it. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing in the law that calls for this to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u245	A respectable president. In the post-marketing surveillance and consumers issue, the financial programme describes an increase in transparent, active competition, healthy business practices as a basis for the future in the market sector and consumers. The idea would have been that the present government had set a good example and had carried out this financial program according to those ideal values. Does the senator believe that these goals mentioned above will be met, i.e. the clear, active competition, healthy business practices, under the current government, with regard to both the Icelandic government's management and the future trades under market control and consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u246	Madam President. I haven't checked this team in particular myself. But these are beautiful words. A senator read up here that there was put on paper about increasing transparency and all that, even promoting competition and so forth. Then I would have gone out and searched the numbers. Then let's just do it, for I've read some very beautiful lyrics in many places in this record, e.g. the importance of working against poverty. But then it's like there's a switch from text to numbers. When I start looking for where the funds are to eliminate poverty or to counteract it: Is that in the form of higher child reforms? In the form of increased housing support? Or other such things? Then I just can't find anything. They're just beautiful words on paper, no numbers to back them up. Such beautiful expressions about consumers and competition. I have, for example. There was no discovery that consumers are the only cause of great success. Is it there? Do we read this out that there must be a major consumer agency and such information? [[The president calls.]] There has to be some context in things. If such beautiful texts are to be written down, they must be followed by some type of expression if we are to pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u247	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a brilliant speech. I'd like to introduce to the welfare committee a little bit. One major promise by the government was to add large amounts of contributions to health care. They may have believed that it would be wealthy. One of the government's chief ornaments is this alleged raised donations. But it takes much more than one feather to dress a whole bird, and the clockwork has to continue, despite the fact that we are throwing ourselves into a land hospital building. Running and building in the land, looking sharp. A senator's signal in this program that it should be maintained or enhanced? For example, there are large plans for building the Hospital in Akureyri, can we say that we will be on hand? What does it read? A senator out of this financial program on regional policy in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u248	Madam President. Of course, it is a joy to see that the plans for the construction of the Land Hospital will continue. It's not as if this government has decided with this plan. We are talking about the continuation of a project, which was actually decided here by the Council three or five years ago, and has been followed since; it has come into a particular course, and it will be continued and it is good. However, your health needs to be controlled. And many things have to be done. There are so many areas of life that need to be handled. In the building of the health care system, her growth; everyone agrees on that. We must count on the increase in expenses in nursing homes and the seminary, the care of the elderly, and the country settlements, of course, hope to obtain their share, including the Nurses of Akureyri, which is in a very similar position to that of the Landsituary in that it is in desperate need of a new section and a reimbursement of the facilities that are released in order to organize its activities into the future as a special hospital and a university hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u249	A respectable president. I would like to address the concerns of the entire nation that concerns the future, but that is birth. The number of births is dwindling, we're out of shape, and we have to do better than ever. For a long time, it has been a struggle to extend a baby's ordinary and to raise payments to parents on maternity vacations. There's evidence of this in a financial program, but it's nowhere to go. Part of the insurance bill runs to pay for your maternity leave. How does that measure? A senator of that, is there an increase within the insurance bill? Is he suggesting that we cancel our insurance? Do we keep the difference? Do we need more emphasis on maternity pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u250	Madam President. I think that it is absolutely necessary to meet, among other things, the fact that the birth rate is a stroke; it was already the lowest since 1838 or 1853, or what it had already begun to measure, and it continued to drop by the past year, 2015, and 2016. The better quality of a child's family, such as by a long, decent maternity vacation, is in my opinion a very active operation on that subject. Of course, housing matters that much, etc. For other health matters, this famous collection of signatures was to achieve this proportion to 11% of gross domestic product. More and more, I agree that it is very close. Some felt that they were in a good position, but during some periods this ratio must increase considerably during the construction of the Land Hospital, the nursing homes, the islands in Akureyri, etc. is in a building. At the end of that time, when we have invested quite well in the interior of the system, well, will it be possible to transfer these funds into growing service and caring for the elderly? [[The president calls.]] I don't think. I'm not from the fact that those guys were just pretty close, and as a result, this plan doesn't work out as far as health care is concerned. We've got to make more money for this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u251	The president asks the speakers to respect the time limit. There are only 45 more on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u254	A respectable president. Yes, it may not be surprising that many are on the rosary on the subject. This has been spoken of as the largest case of the government, actually one of many. For a long time, every language that this government brought was the largest case in the present ideal period. It is good when people are pleased with what they do. I have mentioned it once or twice here in this sermon that I am a simple man - and why stop saying what is true? I certainly am, and when it comes to politics, I am even simpler than in many other ways. There it is for me to tell the truth, to speak clearly and to stick to what you say. Nothing has to be more complicated than that, talk clearly about what you want to do, stick to what you're telling the truth about what you're going to do. I loved to join the campaign in the fall. There was a lot of enthusiasm for supply, with all kinds of ideas about improved and improved society. It was to enter an interior structure that had been severed over the years before. I had an optimistic outlook on the people of the nation, for it seemed that no matter what the outcome of the election would be, all classes planned to place large sums of money in the interior, large financial resources in the well - being, large sums of money on the use of alcohol, not to mention the blessing of the health system. I was in many meetings where each representative of each party promised to fulfill the goal of the famous signature. But then there were elections and finals, and suddenly there was another tone. I don't have to go over it. Although I'm a historian, I don't have to trace it in detail, but I like to keep this in mind when I listen to a discussion about the next five years' financial program. I also like to keep in mind the image I have in my head of three pointheads. Governments to present the government. They were quite clever and optimistic about what they were going to do. Balance and vision are the theme of the Treaty; it sounds like the mouth of a human resources manager of a business to introduce the value or perhaps the motto of some of the adults' parties in history by Ole Kirkegaard Kirkegaard. It's not that exciting, but it's a motto, and when you go on the road after the motto, you may want to follow it. It is interesting to review this program with this motto in mind, that I do not talk about the promises made before elections. It may have become so old a story in the minds of many of the executives that there is absolutely no point in pointing another channel into it. Now it doesn't seem to matter what was said for elections. Now we're dealing with this body of Congress proposals for financial programmes for 2018/2022. I've listened to a lot of executives here today who certainly agree that this isn't all perfect, no more than other men's works; that there's a lot of learning to do, and next we're going to be more careful, and then we're going to go on a much better way just to do it. We're just not going to fix this right now. I think it's a bit of a peculiar wisdom, I must say. The work isn't perfect, was it? I'm a member of the council here earlier. What is it that is not perfect in the process? And why is it not perfect? Of course, I'm not asking here that the legal process of a budget plan is perfect, better now. I don't particularly like perfect things, they're usually kind of boring. It is usually better to have a bed, such as politics, but not to be attached to some kind of procedure. But they are important, especially when they are the highest. Secretary of finance seems completely stuck in that procedure. They appear to be more important than the contents. How is it that numbers are hidden in a national budget program, that they have to be buried and buried to see what the situation is, to see how the faint concept of what the government groups have, about how languages will develop for the next five years, looks? Why is that not just clear? How is it that committees - I can speak for myself and others at ease. The Environment and Transport Committee, and I've been listening to other causes. Councilmen talk about a procedure in other committees - have to try to dig for nice, clear numbers, how things are going to turn out for the next five years, and not get laid? Why is that? How is it that people who want to be taken seriously when it comes to financial matters work out a business - and - investment plan? Even I, fallen into college book transfers, knows that's not to be done. I would have had another walk in the book transfer test, and now I thought enough about how many times it was done, if I had tried to give my answers that way. This is going to go to the top. Secretary of finance out there, as far as it's concerned. And he comes and explains why this is done? To be met by others at the highest. Ministers and explain why it's like this? No, I haven't had any answers yet. Of course, the only answers to these are that this is done to increase the figures, to enhance the beauty of the picture, to try to look a little better when this insane document is submitted. And why is it this way, why isn't it perfect? I sometimes feel that these are things that have fallen from heaven, an imperfect bird that needs to nurture and make perfect so that it can go out into life and that everyone can be happy and content. It's not perfect because it's a bad job. This is not perfect because there were wrong decisions in the work of this document. This is not perfect because a decision was made to try to get blurred speech, so as to carry the coat on both shoulders, so as not to have to represent the exact like this, i.e. that the built - in structure that was offered would not really be; even if a person speaks up on paper, it does not mean that he is making more money in the medical system but, for example, one piece of a new hospital. This imperfect act, sometimes referred to by government officials as an unfortunate coincidence that we need to take on the next time we do the job, is all but a political decision made by those who make it. It's no more complicated than that. It's just something to do with it. And it's announced as the frame that everything will have to fit inside. Here are the lines for us. This is the map we're going to leave after the next five years. But as soon as the groups of criticism are heard, as soon as political groups find it hard to keep what they are going to do, they run away. Then this is no longer the most important document in the government and the frame that everything needs to be followed. Then this is some idea that would be revised next year. Well, then it's just something that the board of directors, isn't it? Officers, can say about: Yes, yes, we agree, and we're all good at it, when they talk out and south about basics of financial programmes, major income mails. Increase in worth taxation - is it not the large income mail that is going to increase the government's income in this program? It's not like wondering if you should drive the east or the west route if you're going to Egress, even the south or the north, if you were better in directions and linear ways than me, this is fundamental. Then people act as if it's no problem that in the government with one man more thing, you basically disagree on this. Money has often been viewed as the test of whether a government has more things or not, whether it comes through the council. It will be interesting to see what it will do with this plan. But why do I talk so much about this frame and running away from it and suddenly pretending that what was introduced into a rock is now just some sort of ground ground for discussion? Whether your travel service sink will be up in the middle of the year, next year or next year, or whether we'll be looking at attendances or what it is - why am I referring so much to this? Then perhaps I have in mind the government's motto, balance and vision. It's a responsibility to make such a contribution. It is a responsibility to get all the articles, all those enterprises, all the institutions, all the employees affected by this document, which is naturally just the nation, completely upset about their work for the next few years. And then you say, "Well, it's just something we were going to put forward here to discuss in case we had time." V.E.G. The minister of finance went to great lengths to stand up all the time in defending the contributions of this matter. While it is good to try to be on time, is it not more important to try hard to do the work? Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came in here that maybe it could have been done a little differently. I think it's a responsibility to contribute this kind of document that makes it, so I'm just speaking out, big groups of society go into shock just because they see what the plan is. Then they pretend it wasn't anything. It is far more responsible than whether a date, a month, or a later date was established. Or should we not just look to Sweden as we are taking this methodology in terms of public finance, which took nine years to introduce it? V.E.G. It seems that the government is going to swing a magic wand, throwing it forward in its first language in a few months. I think it's irresponsible and critical of this document is kind of, well, she's a vagina. There is hardly any record of this document that can be found in a positive declaration of support. From a small point of view to its core presidents, I refer to it as a review of the financial counsel itself. This criticism even finds its way into the review of much of the legal committee. It's not like they're just some people out in town, with all due respect. It's not as if it's just the smaller part, it's not as if these are just organizations who are looking forward to getting even limited funds. It's the largest part of the budget board, the greater part; it's critical of it. I allow me to quote the reviews of the greater part, by permission of the president: The lesson shows that the delay of the Council's fixed committees to give a review of the matter to the budget committee was a real challenge and has affected the discussion of the committee. Would it not, then, be wise to give a little more time, simply change the timetable in this regard? The majority of the committees feel that it is important to strengthen the Office of the Generals. How many times have we talked about this since I arrived at a council that is not yet long, though I am old, and I can see it. You never get one single word from the highest. Secretary of the budget on whether to strengthen the branch office of the Generals. Is it in the state budget? No. Yet, more of the legal committees think it is necessary. The ▪Mei part considers it important to show financial plans where possible the cost of individual action to be met. The estimated cost of an individual action -- this is a bit of a factor, isn't it, when you put in a financial overview for the next five years, that the cost of a planned action is estimated? ▪ The Committee pointed out that the need for a coordinated procedure on how to estimate the cost of action in a financial programme is needed. We were sitting down. The environmental and transport committees, and it was a success and a failure to determine which information we received. They were presented in a completely different form from the highest. Internal Affairs, but the highest. Environment Ministry. These people didn't meet at government meetings? Well, more often than any other government, the highest. A government doesn't think there's a need to meet just once. They are so professional in their jobs that one meeting is enough for them when other governments took two a week. And then it's what goes down I'm in the accounting process, I even saw for myself, by permission of the President: Then the majority consider it desirable to be divided in financial programs on the one hand, the cost of operating costs and the cost of individual investments in a designated topic. Despite all these harsh criticisms, they should not make any basic changes, they should not provide any data themselves. More of the budget calls for it. It's just to go on. We had that experience. Environmental and transport committees how uncertain this issue has been. A representative of each agency after another came into our home and no one knew how anything would appear in business for the next year. Let us not pretend that it is something that does not matter. As I came in earlier, it is a responsibility not to attach yourself in time and format, in an excel document, not to be reminded of the consequences of people's lives and jobs and institutions. And I haven't yet started with the content, a respectable president. Is it not bad when a man who claims to be as small as I have spent all this time talking about it? But that's because it's important. You can't just make it up and say, "It's just an initial problem, and we'll fix it next time. I'm going to say again, it's a political decision to set up a financial plan like this. It is a political decision to amass business and investment, a political decision not to be any clearer in financial planning than it really is. Another decision could have been made. There is no room for such a series of words in this great book that the markings became just like this. It's a decision. And it is half gray, must be said, that a government that preached, with a optimistic look at the beginning of its career, modern practice, will end up being composed of groups that primarily justify their existence with the need for modern practice, should collapse on this test. And it came to pass, when these things were spoken, when they said these things, unto the first year. this case, how did they react? Did they notice, people in modern times wondered if they could change and improve right away, not just promise to do so next time, like the alcoholic who intends to stay sober for the next weekend, but now? No, I've had a lot of fun when we discuss these matters here in a pit, like it really doesn't matter at all. I can't help saying that this document, this work, this form and the discussion about this, have caused me tremendous disappointment. But that's all right, I'm used to being disappointed and raised again, and I keep on getting bright and happy into life. Then perhaps it's time to turn to the subject, why I came up here into this pit, which is the object that falls under our committee, why. Environmental and Transport Committee. It's fun to tell you that my time is almost running out that I hadn't figured out, I must have such extraordinary fun listening to myself talking because my time is getting really fast when I'm here in a pontu, faster than when others are in torture even. [[Foreground on: No.]] Maybe I'll go over it later, please. A president putting me on the rosary, and getting better into it is easy to go. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'm counting on it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson will bring something into it too, because there's plenty of work to do there. There they are the lawsuits proclaimed by the government, even by six secretary's press conferences, that it should be emblazoned with many feathers, including the climate; the environment frame will rise by 1 billion, if I remember correctly. [[The president calls.]] It will be good to see how to use the money repeatedly so that all goals will be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u255	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, gave a bold talk. I pretended to sense her a serious subsonic in combination with a hair bait in the spirit of Lund Kirkegaard Kirkegaard, whom he mentioned on his name earlier. I've been entertained, rather, reading the Rubmi-Tarsan and more of those books that are the most excellent entertainment and which come directly to the finish line. Sadly, though, it cannot be said the same about this financial plan, that it hit the finish line. Actually, it went wrong. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon so far as to say it should be flushed down the toilet. In fact, I advise men that this will only lead to a blockage of the toilet. I wanted to ask--yes, there was only one minute --wh. A senator whether he believes that the goals found in the Paris Convention on Climates will be met with this financial program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u256	A respectable president. Ironically, it is. A senator came into the toilets and toilets, blocked the toilet, washed and cleared, for there's absolutely no money to be found for sewage and waste, so I'll be there now. Regarding the objective of the Paris Convention, the brief answer is: No. The obvious thing is that the 1 billion increase in environmental issues will not be enough. In fact, a report on climate matters, as discussed here as a black report that would have to be taken very seriously, points to relatively simple paths as alone, of course not saving but being greatly improved, e.g. to double forestry, even 4-fold. A fourth would on its own - well, this billion there would not be nearly all going in. So: No, it's very simple that if it's a frame, it's obvious that they don't reach goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u257	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I'm gonna let me ask you two questions this time, hopefully I'll get it. On the one hand, I'd like to ask him about the environmental funding, since we're down in that gear - I was actually going anywhere but it's not everything. Based on the current budget, contributions to the environment will decline immediately after 2018 and decrease to 2018 and 2018 and then to a slightly rising level in 2021 in 202022. It may be said that a person is making a promise in his sleeve, for this government will probably be removed when it does. [[For example: Let us hope so.]] Let's hope so. I'll just let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. [[Up front.]] Well, I pretended to sense it. This, however, is just a good example of failure to act. As I came into this room, I have the highest. Governments are very delicate because environmental issues should now be taken particularly seriously. You can't believe it when you see this government plan that we're supposed to be there. It cannot be believed until real money comes along, until a real operation plan with measurable goals and earmarks comes along. We discussed a transport energy exchange strategy, which on its own suggests that it is not followed by the ideologies of planning to have measurable goals and earmarks. This idea is the highest. Governments, over two of the five years it is acceptable to reduce contributions to the environment, are incomprehensible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u259	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér before his speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is he not in agreement with me, he does not recall that all classes spoke of the importance of infrastructure in leading the last election? Can he agree with my comment that it is not available in the financial programme that highlights the important infrastructure, especially because of the lack of resources and cost of operating in many places, and because of lack of information from recruitment, information that has been left on the committees to actually see with which the funds meet the objectives? Does he agree that if there is no major change in the financial programme involved here, we must reject it altogether?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u260	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, indeed, if it had been written about the last campaign, it would probably have promised an inner love because that's what everybody talked about; the shortage, the need, the structure that would have to be done. [[Take it up: Investment.]] - Yeah, the investment in the interior, sure. And never did I hear any senator talking about the fact that all this building must fit in the economy, no one, not one. It raises the question of why. A senator came in, what to do in these matters. The numbers are so deep that even we are at what we hear. The Environment and Transport Committee does not know what the real purpose of the government is in the process of transport. It refers to a transport program that appears to be a bookshelf for the highest degree. A secretary of transportation, where only he can pick out the volumes he wants to read at a time. [[The president calls.]] We are no closer to what to do in this but, yes, of course, to the private initiative and, of course, to charge a road toll, which are nothing but a tax raise on users.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u261	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your answer, my dear. Senator. I'm just gonna go into the health care section and the welfare issues. Government budget shows that there is a 23% increase in hospital service, but within that number there is a building in a new hospital. Yet, it has occurred at the beginning of the night. to complete the new building and 7 billion for reimbursement of an old hospital would be necessary by a board of welfare committees. In fact, the real increase is only 338 million to the whole country's hospital service. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with my words and the feeling that it is difficult to see what was said, to improve the quality of patients, staff, equipment, and other things when the amounts are not higher than you can see? Isn't this a total failure of what was said before elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u262	A respectable president. Yes, that's exactly what it is. Senator. Once the number of real numbers has been peeled off, the actual increase, such as for hospital service, remains in 338 million. But why is it so pronounced? It's because of the highest. The government does not want to face a global nation, saying: " Look, over the next five years, we are going to increase our donations to hospital service by 338 million. Because she knows what kind of reaction it would get. Thus, it is tried to choke, to confuse business with projects, and even to the highest degree. Prime Minister to correct the presidents of the Land Hospital who need to correct correction at the highest level. Minister of well-being. Why do people not just face their own actions? Why doesn't it just stand up straight and speak for its own direction? Because this must be the policy of the Independence Party, the bright future and the restoration. [[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u263	Madam President. I still think a little bit more about the discrepancy between the Treaty and the budget. To be reasonable, there may be no wonder when three groups separate into an election campaign that all of them have to do some compromises to get together. But then they sit down and write a government contract. Now the lines are set. However, as two months later, a national financial program will be developed that will bring only part of the Treaty into the financial program. Got it. A senator's belief that there is a lack of credibility in such cooperation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u264	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. How Would You Answer? Yeah. He has, as it were, never been an enormous figure to me when this government comes. But it is certainly so that when the laws and promises made in the Treaty no longer appear in the large document that is going to be done for the next five years. A few months later, you begin to ask yourself, " What do people really mean by what they put on paper or what they let out? ' So I become personal in the symposium, I think it's one of the most evils in Icelandic politics today. Somehow we have stopped trying to speak clearly about our ideals, about what we want to do. For example, if you want private business in the health care department, you should just step in and say that you are ready to accept criticism, make your arguments, listen to objections, and then leave them in the court of voters, not sneak them in without saying it, by putting one on paper, and then not by the other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u265	Madam President. Hv. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee. It has much to do with climate. One of the most important challenges in climate is to reduce traffic and to increase public transport. It is said in the majority of the panels that financial programs must be kept out of the hands of the government so that they can't take part in a community line and public transportation project. The city line is probably one of the most important projects that we have ahead of us today in the environment. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Is there anything in the document that suggests that a person is going to spend some money on that project? She'll be expensive, but she'll save us enormous money in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u266	A respectable president. The short answer should be no, but that would not be entirely the truth, as the document points to one line in the government covenant. If I remember correctly... the community service for city lines. [[Top-to-City Group]] It's very hairy, and it's unclear what that means. And naturally even more so when there is no money left in it. You may argue that we have not arrived at the time of putting precise numbers into this. But then there will be a time for that. A senator came in so well: What will be the space when the budget has been so extended so much that it has been set in this ridiculous budget? What will be the space to handle the task that I completely agree with. A senator to be one of the most important projects we can do when it comes to environmental and climate issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u267	Madam President. I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Otttir's Óttarsson Proppér said that he referred to the methodology and lesions in it in the production of this financial program. It's enough to take on methodological defects. There are tablets that are unassigned, there are no measurable targets in some chapters, the chapters are not even set in a comparable manner. In view of the changes that have been made, and in view of the many accounts that have been made, it is worth asking ourselves: Is there anything that could have been done to address a large proportion of the methodological defects that are in the suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u268	A respectable president. Your faith is great, woman, in some book. And great is your faith, my dear. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, thinking that I can right this minute explain to you something that could capture all the faults and correct them and adjust them for this financial plan. I'm gonna be honest about that I don't have that answer. On the other hand, I have many indications from myself regarding the development of this document, as well as from the more experienced ones in it. In the foundation, I feel that this piece should be as easy and as clear as possible. You should see the exact box for the projects, see the progress of the funds, what to do on each project, and make it as clear as possible; in contrast to this, which was not very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u269	Madam President. I understand that it is difficult to answer this question, since I have been lying a little over it myself and have not yet found any answer to this very point. I haven't been able to find a place. There's so much missing over the flaws. There are so many faults and so many that I haven't known exactly where to begin. In this context, you might ask, " How should we approach each other? ' Is it not some way to approach this in a more reasonable way? I could quite imagine that there could be, like a whale. A senator says, to have some comparison, to divulge the data in a natural way. However, the lack of overall methodology is far from universal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u270	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council these thoughts. If there was one thing I could use, so we'll just play some fun children's games, we'll play this state-of-the-art plan, I think I'd take the charge that makes us look ridiculously lenient about what we can do, attach us completely in terms of space. And somehow it is presented in a perfect blind belief that there will be endless economic growth, at least while we are in power, which is destructive and dangerous. The examples show where this can lead us; so is childish. A senator asks, " How can I make myself available to and draw close in a more reasonable way? ' My simple answer is, by changing governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u271	Madam President. The budget we're discussing here, up to 2022, gives evidence that we're raising the financial expenses of the state's budget, they're about to be around the top of the budget. 212 billion higher in 2022 than it is expected to be a year under budget. This is an increase of more than 2.5 million per Icelandic family. It is also clear that increasing expenses in various areas, including some of them, are being reflected. Government policy and priorities. Thus, a better understanding of this is made of the cost of health care cost of 34 billion dollars. higher absolute value in 2022 than this year, repeated: 34 billion higher. However, according to the discussions that have been going on all day and all night, it would be best to think that there was a bloody cutthroat knife in the air. This year, over 14 billion donations are actually higher than they were this year in 2022. This year, 9 billion people in 2022 become more real to them than they were this year. Keep in mind the tremendous increase that was then between 2016 and 2017, as the financial adviser points out in his review of the financial program, with a high spending rate of 8.5% in total. I'm going to point out that when I talk about extra expenses, including... To health care, I'm not talking about planning expenses. I'm just talking about what's supposed to run to the tribe outside of what's in the frame, i.e. except for the stock costs. It would seem that members of Congress had not realized these facts. It is important to keep in mind, too, that we are talking about a general approach to the topic areas, except for stock costs of 83 billion dollars. a larger amount of money in 2022 than this year. 83 billion real - life experiences between those years. A total of investments, including In the health system of these six years, 2017 families022, over 100 billion, over 100 billion in those years. [[Up front.]] You can even. introduce to you the opinion of a greater proportion of the budget committee, where the figures are distinguished. It is also possible to add them together and get results that are right. I know this can be awkward sometimes. But there it is. Of course, these financial programs can be criticized on different sides, and I think there are a lot of people who will criticize the budget for overexploitation, that growth in spending has become dangerously high, especially under the economic conditions that are facing today. The evidence is strong, but it continues, and the plan is that -- there is now not much taxation in this financial scheme, unfortunately, however. þm. Sigurður Inng, perhaps someday we can come together in that regard. [[To lower taxes.]] Before I go over taxes exactly, especially credit taxes I've been thinking about and the ideas presented in the financial program, I think it's right for us at least. It will also discuss how we have been able to deal with financial programs, how we have been involved in committees, and how we have a position to deal with the task of laying the lines here in the long term when it comes to government finances and, in fact, government finances. All of us can agree that this was too time - consuming for our work. This needs to be adjusted when we take control of the new year. We must arrange the budget for the coming year to strengthen the council's operation in a way that enables us, members of the Parliament, to provide an independent assessment of financial programmes, economic policies, financial laws, or financial products for each year. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This will be of only a secure price - and it's up to us, it's not the government, it's the financial authority itself that makes a decision to develop expertise within the Generals to which the Parliaments have access, I mean economists, I mean accountants, tax experts, national interest experts, etc. I think this should be our promise as we discuss the financial agenda. At least we can. have agreed to take on and unite here in the fall and for the coming year 2018 to take this step. We also need to consider that the area in which the work was done - or rather a financial program, which is, of course, under the custody of a legal committee, and that I believe that more of the legal committees have done a great job and a good job, and that it is called the opinion that from this point of view, there is a great example and a more clear perspective on the financial agenda, and it may not have been easy for us to identify in the available financial work. But this does not change the work of other fixed committees to be more specific, the project needs to be made up of, and we need to understand what is required of a fixed committee. It's perfectly clear, I hear it, and it's the legitimate criticism that has been presented here, that the phrase on the budget is not as best chosen. It's not as clear, it's not as clear as we want it to be. I know, and I've heard the highest. The secretary of finance agrees with that criticism, so we can expect a new year when financial programs will be reprogramed, significant changes in its production and knowledge of good. I have also called attention to the need that financial planning is a long - term clear investment plan so that we can identify what we are going to do, in which we are attacking individual fields of activity, in whole and in a number of major projects. It matters to us. I think such a strategy is necessary to divide into two parts; either economic infrastructure or social. But with this plan, you will also have to follow how to finance the investment that I know we all agree to have to attack. However, we do not know exactly exactly, and we do not have an overview of the scope of internal investments, whether in economic or social structures, is necessary in the next five or ten years. We know that there is a cumulative need. There's debate over how much she is. It is probably not less than 250 billion. She's probably considerably higher. Clearly, considering the need for new investments, we're talking about that in the next decade, we have to face up to funding at least Seven hundred billion inside. We need to find out how we are going to do this and how we will do it. I think it's necessary that we start the financial program that will be submitted in the years to come. Of course, we can debate how we should live up to that investment. I have my opinion, and I'm quite sure that not everyone in this room will agree with them, but I do think that although we may be able to negotiate an economic infrastructure, which is a smaller part of this project, through our cooperation between state, rural society and private people, most of it may be a pension fund. In this regard, we too must ponder over the unexcited and unconcerned that we do not really rule over the possessions already owned by the State and ask ourselves, " Are these assets the ones we consider necessary for the Kingdom? ' Is changing these assets into others better spent together? It may be reasonable, as most of the legal committee suggests, that this is at least See if it is wise to sell Leifsson's Air Station, turn it into bridges, ports, roads, communications networks, etc.? I think that the interests of more Icelanders are better paid by letting the funds at the airport run on such projects, but I know that not everyone agrees with me. But this is what I think we should talk about. I'm only going to take part in what we were at the Economic and Business Committee primarily watching. We left our expenses, the difficult task came on the board of committees, while the Economic and Business Committee was looking primarily at income and income resources of the state fund. Of course, when we in this room decide to change the tax laws, it doesn't matter whether it's an income tax or an enterprise, a merit tax, a toll, or what fees it is, we're too busy looking at how the changes to increase or reduce the income of the state's budget. Of course it matters, but it's not the only thing that matters. We need to be convinced that what we are doing when it comes to changing the rules of the tax system, whether it comes to homes or companies, we need to consider how these changes affect our position in other countries, how the changes affect the competitiveness of the Icelandic company, the competitive status of the Icelandic employee, or the legitimate employee, etc. I am personally convinced that when we are here changing the rules in the tax system, we are under obligation to consider how these changes affect the competitiveness of Icelandic companies. We need to discern whether these changes will one way or another, directly or indirectly, weaken the economy. And we need to see if in the long run, this is the very way to weaken the tax collectors of the State. Now, credit is the most important tax base in the state. According to this year's budget, there's about to be a chance about that. 36% of the government's tax pay from respect. In view of available financial programmes, the share of cost taxes will be further increased in proportion to other farms. In recent years, we have enjoyed a tremendous increase in earnings. They are 46 billion in the last year to the real value of the year 2000, 46 thousand million people higher. This is an actual raise of less than 30%. It is quite successful on one tax base to increase the value of the real value by about 30% in no more time. That is especially so, considering the importance of this tax stock, which I believe is that when we take steps to make changes in the way we do things, we take a good look at all factors. Madam President. I see my time is about Much shorter than I realized now, I'm going to be allowed to sign up in the two talks, because I'm not going to finish my discussion any other than just briefly discussing a merit tax. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u272	Madam President. Now I agree. paritaprevir Oir Óli Kárason's report that the cumulative need for investment is probably up to 700 billion, if not more, without a diagnosis of it. I completely disagree with him that it is somehow okay to allow a faulty financial plan, as he himself described, to go through now and make up for the willingness some day next year. In this brief period of time, we have been correcting one another in a positive way. Hv. At the beginning of his talk, a senator mentioned an increase of 212 billion in the period only due to economic growth. We know this because it is in the financial programme that expenses are being reduced as a proportion of GDP. If the economy goes on, if it goes on as predicted, then it could be solved in some way. But instead of assuming that this will continue into the infinite, as seems to be expected, what does it mean for us if economic growth decreases slightly, let's say 0.6% just to select a specific number? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u273	The president would like to remind the speakers to stick to their schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u274	Madam President. I know why. A senator does not expect me to calculate it here in a speech chair and possibly on an extra letter as well. [[Up front.]] The problem is: Once a decision has been made to increase expenses for a certain business group, contributions - I'm talking, not about subsidies, but about contributions to health, education, or the elderly - it is almost impossible to reduce those expenses, except in situations that are unprecedented. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter is very well aware when she had to work just to cut down expenses for delicate lawsuits, including those in retirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u275	Madam President. Now, we know, in the financial program, that we are looking ahead to one of the longest economic growths in the Republic of Germany. A study of economic growth reveals that this may be one of the longest, but it is fourth if this unprecedented growth continues, or perhaps by no means unprecedented, compared with history, throughout the entire period. The reason I picked the number is 0.6% because we have received confirmation that if the growth fails by more than 0.5%, financial policy itself is smiling. That's what we've been getting at a meeting at the Economic and Business Committee. That alone worries me greatly because there is no basis for financial management.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u276	Madam President. You're absolutely right next to what's wrong. A senator that when you plan something, you build on a set basis and when the reasons are missing for some reason, the plan doesn't work. It's that simple and it's not space science. Of course, we'd have to clean up if there's a major failure here. That's obvious. [[Up front.]] And that's what everybody knows, everybody knows, the rest is outback. If the basis for a plan does not matter whether it is a government or a rural society, an enterprise, fails, one must take it into account when making a new plan. It's as simple as that, it's life now. Don't make it more complicated than it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u277	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned bridges, ports, and roads for an air base. I don't know if he's already read the financial policy of his government, but it's not possible with financial policy, for all financial exchange is supposed to go into subsidies. 2016-2017, like a dog. A senator mentioned, was a fairly large increase in expenses, but 20 billion of it, of the 30 that was increasing, were responsible for the former government, government, which increased the expenses by 20 billion over the current programme. Then I'd like to ask. Senator: Will financial programs be exceeded in the second or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u278	Madam President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. A senator has to forgive me, I just had to ask him, because I couldn't quite get the question. [[Up front.]] I've got a problem, but I don't see you, sometimes it takes me a long time to turn up questions. I think the project that will be carried out when it regroups here in the fall is making that decision. [[Up front.]] I think that there are reasons why adjustments should be made in some areas. I think, too, as I believe, I said here, we are at the edge of the hour when it comes to the increase of the money in the coming years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u279	A respectable president. Today, for the first time last year, financial laws were based on financial planning. The budget presented by the government was 20 billion over a financial program. That's what I'm asking, is that we're expecting these things to happen again? I understand prices, etc., that's all. If we are being criticized for an expansion, we should realize that there is a priority, it is all there. The priority order, according to the majority of the legal committee's panels, is to be increased to hospitals by 8.8% if the stock costs are removed and to the university level by 7.7%. However, in the same financial programme, pay increases are expected to exceed 9%. This means cutback. We haven't even entered this donation program for the Scientific and Technical Council plan. What does that mean, anyway? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u280	Madam President. I know why. Since a senator is on a financial committee, he must know that there is an extra charge for health care, and I traced it earlier tonight, about 34 billion. This year 34 billion will be higher than this year in 2022. What is more: During the next few years, an estimated 31 billion will be under attack. Invest - No, Investor. þm. Smári McCarthy. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u281	Not conversation in the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u282	31 billion p.m. Until the year 2022. So it is now relatively simple. There's an additional supply for health care. Of course it is, and it knows why. A senator like most of the people in this room, that much of the health - care cost is pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u283	Madam President. There are many ways to get a hold of numbers. For example, I'm here with a calculation made by four different exports. You can put it here and interpret in a variety of ways, as is often done when beautiful images are being made or presented in a way that is most convenient for you at any given time. The Senator earlier said we were on the edge of the state's expenses. I'd like to ask, because now the combination is at a minimum in history, where he thinks it should be, what is normal; it's dropped from 233/424% to 21% in the last eight years. Is he okay with it or isn't he? I'll probably have to ask you the second question after this. But I would like to say that it is in the financial data of the domestic demand, i.e. When we're talking about the economic outlook, that it will continue to advance economic growth and analysis, for example, because the senator talked a lot about investments, of why they go from 12.6% to less than 1%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator if he agrees with this diagnosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u284	Again, the president would like to remind the speakers to stick to their schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u285	Madam President. Of course, there are a variety of standards when it comes to government expenses, and this may be most common in terms of the proportion of land production. I suppose, though, that it is not entirely certain to be the wisest. When we are evaluating the maintenance of public finances and especially the government, I don't think it's wise to aim for GDP. I think financial advice is right in its own indications when it feels that the economic rhythm rights of a element are a better measure. That's one of the reasons why I think, too, except for what I said about the process and how we need to ensure that the council has a chance to discuss these matters, we also need to start reevaluating the laws on public finances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president is beginning to wonder if he needs to be aggressive. [The senators laugh.] Please respect speech time.]] Please respect speech time.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u286	Madam President. It's such a short time that you can hardly begin to talk. I'd also like to continue here because financial policy deals with all of this in GDP; we'll have to change the form as well. A senator mentioned. This does not change the fact that we are always discussing some part of our country's production or some other set of criteria and have so far been the case. Hv. A senator also entered property sales and other items and had to consider them. I'll have to remember the phone store, if it's any good. Some thought so. I didn't think so. I'm asking the senator if he thinks it was a good thing to do. I also want to consider specific matters because we have talked about health care and other matters. Police believe, for example, that there are a growing number of standards here in the capital area, in the South, and in the north. There, the expenses, without incarcerating, are increasing by 1.9% to 2.8% during the period. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator believe that this is acceptable and sufficient for us to maintain a security level in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u287	Madam President. I'll talk faster, and I won't go on time. The answer to the last question is: I think we need to make a considerable contribution to the police. I believe it's one of the basic roles of the state. That's why I think we're under obligation and we're supposed to shoulder it, and we're supposed to do it well. I agree with what. A senator, this cannot be done differently than we add extra expenses to law enforcement in general. About Símann. I say, "Yes, of course it was a good idea to sell Shimann." There is, however, a question about the base net. I think people should have thought about that better. But I'm sure you'll be selling Simmann because the phone has become some stone-aged phenomenon owned by the state in competition with a living private company that we're now enjoying. Senator. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u288	Madam President. It's amazing to hear from a dog. A senator that anything in the hands of the State becomes a stone - century phenomenon. Why should this be so? Is it not because right men believe that this is the only way to bring government owners and organizations into the hands of private residents to starve these lawsuits, to make them so bad that personalization can be justified? Gonna go for it. A senator playing the same game with transportation in the country and selling estates, such as property at Istavia, the air station at the Cheflavíks Airport, to do the one-way operation and put it on road construction? Have they not burned themselves on this as did the independents of the city of Rhines, who sold everything that moved in town? How did that turn out? Of course, they had some serious problems, and the local community has been under surveillance ever since. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They are just trying to get out of this today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Yeah, and have it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u289	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. Senator, I think when it comes to a normal competitive operation, it's better to leave it to a private person than the state can handle. I'm not sure about the state, sir, that it will turn out well to run a lingerie shop at Leifsson's Air Station or a candy store, etc. I think private people should. I think the state should focus on the work we agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u290	... panties...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u291	Which we should agree on. Communication and not a single intervention procedure. Wait a minute. It's what it is. A senator so that roads, bridges, harbors, are worse off than Leifs son of Erik? [[The point is, he didn't say that.]] Communion action, it's like property disappears from our common property. [[The president calls.]] Not at all. I'm just wondering that we're going to start thinking about how we share our money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u292	Madam President. Communications. You don't sell property at the airport many times. So I understand in financial/ fiscal policy that the money for the assets sold to the state should be paid in subsidies. Isn't that right? Is it perhaps out - of - date in this financial program that it has not had a stone on it? There are some 60 billion investment needs in maintaining road maintenance. [[Take it up. More.]] The next 500 billion new investers are needed. This is the amount of money that comes from the head of the road and those who know it best. If it is thought that it was an investment of 1.5% of the road product, then that investment has been 1% in recent years, so there is a great cumulative need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen? A government to sell? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What will be next? [[The president calls.]] You just sell everything away from here because you can't tax the wealth in this country? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-23-69.u293	Madam President. This is gonna be fun. I just want to point one out. In a financial legal hearing, the financial policy of earnings should be reserved only for subsidies. I agree with that criticism. I believe that it may be wise to change the property of the State, including The terminal. We can review some others and use them in other ways to share our needs so that they will benefit us better, serve us better. [[Up front.]] The decision is about how we want to use common resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to change them in the way, bridges, ports, and even airports. In the country. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] You're very sensitive to this. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
