ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u1	I want to draw attention to what. General Parliamenters believe that the president of the Austria Assembly, Doris Bures, is at the council. It is accompanied by a delegation of Austrian senators. The president of the General Assembly of Austria is here visiting the General Assembly Hall in connection with a visit to Iceland, offering an invitation to the President of the Generals. I would like to welcome the president of the General Assembly of Austria, Doris Bures, and a delegation to the Generals House and I expect their visit to Iceland to further strengthen the fine ties between our countries. The general assembly of the presidents of Austria and the Austrian nation is friendship and respect, and I pray. All the councilmen, that they should answer my words, that they should stand up from their seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for the 1st. Smoke. n., Guðlaugur Þórðarson, can't attend in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly of 3th, a deputy of the Independence Party is a member of the district, Jón Ragnar Ríkarðsson. His letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u3	Jón Ríkharðsson has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Independence Party to the 4th. Smoke. s., Sigríður Á. Andersen, can't do Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Independence Party is taking up residence in the district, Jóhannes Stefánsson. His letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u4	Jóhannes Stefánsson has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u5	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to complete the planned discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u6	Consider: Prime Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and secretary of transportation and development.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u7	Madam President. I can't help but the new opportunity we have here in unsubstantiated queries to have a place of words at the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture for a future view of his group based on the financial program we are going to discuss today. Interestingly, when we look at the school issues, to make budgets for high school, they decrease over time in excess of what was expected in the last financial programme, which was proposed by the secretary of finance of the same category as the highest level. The Minister of Education is in and out of the league. The former minister of education stood at the door. When these contributions were presented at their time, it was stated that despite the shortness of high school, it would be careful that donations would not decrease the importance of raising each student's allowance and improving the school position. There is no need for, some say, e.g. Based on yesterday's field education. When we consider the contributions to the university level directly, we read about the planned reduction. V.E.G. A financial minister came up here yesterday and said: "It's a healthy reduction in college students. Wait, we're not moving forward? Aren't we moving forward? Icelandic universities are not just about Iceland. They're in international competition. They're supposed to be picking up students into the world, taking the lead in science and research. These are our basic institutions. Here we are just talking about a healthy reduction in college students, so it is only natural to look forward. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, who has spoken in such a way that he wants to see an application in school affairs, whether he approves of the vision that contributions per student are increased by reducing students, whether he considers it a natural vision for Icelandic society that we will not increase more of our university, which are fundamental institutions for future employment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is a start to the happiness of the discussion that will take place later today. Here is a question of how I feel about the already established financial agenda. I'll support her, just to be said, and underline it with my whole mind. That is correct. The senator's contributions to high school are lower than those of the budget adopted by the General Assembly last year. You're absolutely right. There have been a number of events since its approval, including those in the United States. In this hall, the council approved large - scale expenses that were not expected in the same financial program. A senator witnesses. I mention, for example, that the increase in budget in 2017 is 53 billion higher than in 2016. Somewhere it'll work. It's true that there were more expectations. I agree with that. I was one of them. However, it is not proper for a student to make contributions from year to year. [[Up front.]] They don't grow in the way we wanted to. I'll share my concerns with him. A senator in the subject, that we do not meet the expectations that had been fully developed and established, either in high schools or in high schools. I did not hear the words quoted in the words of the Ministry of finance yesterday. However, money contributions to the university are comparable to what happens in OECD overall, while contributions to students here are lower, suggesting that we are in some way taking students into school in ways that are different from those we compare with. I don't know. A member of the Parliament, as it has been repeated, reports that reviews are being carried out and is in preparation, both for high school, reviewing the calculus, as well as at the university level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u9	Madam President. V.E.G. Ministers are loyal to the government, and they state that he supports the plan, although at the same time it is stated in his case, that expectations are not being met, not just expectations in elections, because they are certainly not being fulfilled, but they are not exactly agreed to the financial expectations of a body member of the same party as the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education and Culture is in. It is not living up to the expectations that have been given through the scientific and technical policies in terms of funding for students in college. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to another incident that appeared here yesterday. We agreed on a proposal to build a Museum of Nature for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Commonwealth of Iceland. No part of the budget is found in the Museum of Nature. V.E.G. A financial minister yesterday asked for the same subject that he referred to the highest level. Secretary of education on this matter. Now I ask, "What does it take to get it to the highest level?" The Minister of Education and Culture can collect money here if not even enough to have agreed to the Generals behind them, as we certainly have, the General's new approval that part of the celebration for the nation's 100th anniversary is the building of a natural museum? [[The president calls.]] Or it can be the highest. A minister might find it for me if she's here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u10	A respectable president. I want to be able to do it here, in addition to what I said to him. A senator earlier, that the main focus of the budget set out here, is for the better health and welfare expenses, to be said and stressed. And, of course, things do happen somewhere. That's what I'm talking about. So a client here refers to the Museum of Nature, and I cannot find the place in the budget, naturally, because it's not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u11	Despite Generalis approval?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u12	Despite Generalis approval. I sent a message and a request for it, but there was no room to meet the wishes, as did many others who were proposed to make financial plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u13	It's not a wish, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u14	We'll request from the Ministry on the budget. So that there is no misunderstanding here in the discussion, there is a lot of business that the Ministry's sending into the budget that can't get started there. It's one of them. So it's enlightened. [[Up front.]] There's no understatement in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u15	A respectable president. The Department of Professional Road and Development recently received a report on the Food Institute, returned March 27th. According to the report, there are a number of big, important cases and projects MAST has received in the past seven years. It is also stated that branch offices do not achieve their legal function. The final example of failure of the Agency is the Brown-English case. By permission of the President: ▪ When the MAST activities began in the present form, 75 people are employed by the Agency, now about 90 regular employees in the service of MAST. Only part of this increased work is due to the activities related to the monitoring role of MAST. After further notice, I made a head count, which is about 93 people today. August is after three more, but it is not a search for people in areas where fish farming is planned in structure or by education related to it. With the big projects the Agency was given in 2015, the monitoring and management of fish farms and the EEA, it appears that funds have not followed the projects. There is a somewhat linear increase in the budget of the Agency by 100 million. K. A year's basis. That's pretty much the same thing in my financial plan, as far as I can get next. It is then stated in Castlight Tuesday that there is not enough financial support for the Agency's work and, in fact, not enough money to be there for the Agency to perform its original role. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural minister: Does the Minister count, on this basis, that the Food Organization can perform its own surveillance role in fish farming using the current budget and the planned financial programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u16	Madam President. I'd like to start by thanking you. A senator for calling attention to the Food Institute report. I put her before the council as a Senate document because I believe this is a very important document that is relevant to the entire body of Congress. I have even. Requested that at the highest. President's debate over the Food Institutes where we can support the Agency from the Hall, talk about food security and the role of the Food Agency, including in the case of fish farming. I feel that I am aware of a measure of anxiety. A senator about MAST, and I share them in a sense. We need to support this facility. This is one of the most important agencies for us to ensure the safety, safety of consumers and community, in the important things, whether in import or export, production within the country, we need to ensure certain aspects of the procedure. Regarding fish fire, there are also certain rules. We have a definition and a requirement for special veterinarians in fish diseases. They simply are missing, there is a demand for individuals with such expertise. There are two people working in the Food Agency with such expertise. One's working at the FAO, then there's one independent, and then one for the fish farms. Then we have a condition from the Hall of Congress, including that veterinary surgeons should speak Icelandic. This is one of the roles I think the General should look over and consider. What can we do to make it easier for the Agency to perform this important role, a surveillance role in the fishery that will only become more important in view of the growth of fish farming in the coming years? Therefore, we here at the council Hall need to support the Agency and use the report and tips it offers to promote and support the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Marine and agricultural minister answers, but I would like to ask: There is now a judicial hearing in Sweden, which is simply forbidden to fish farms and a new marine farm in Norway, which is simply stopped, and therefore these companies are expected to look up in new areas. Wouldn't it be a better idea, before we continue giving a new license with an institution that can't do its job, set a rule on this and block further structure until we know where we're going to go with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u18	President. I call attention to the fact that there is now a committee that has the responsibility to shape policy, suggest to me about the fish fire in the country, and is due in summer. I have given high priority to the committee and the chairman of the committee to consult with the Council's Employment Committee, which I understand has just been meeting with the Committee this morning, and then the Parliament's Environment Committee. That's important. I think, in view of that, a lot of work, including... we will consider the matter of molding policies at the council. I find an opportunity to shape a transverse policy to build fish farms for a long time. I'm not hiding that I think people should take it slow. I want men to go slowly until we've built here a responsible and clear view of fish fire and also secure the foundations and infrastructure. But it's more than just going the way Sweden has gone or Alaska and taking on fish farms in the whole country. It is no coincidence that the formation of a ten - week sailor strike had little or no effect on the southern West. It was because there was now another foundation, another basic work in the area, and that's why I say, "Let's be careful about this, let's try to look at all the interests, try to make this whole, and try to do this together, my dear Senate."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u19	Madam President. Iceland's border sold in the fall about 6% of the stocks at Copenhagen. Shortly thereafter, or about two months later, that thing seemed to have risen by four to five billion. This was driven to an agreement with the Deutsche Bank, where the German bank agreed to pay about 50 billion at Copenhagen. Stocks that the Secret Bank's letters must have been the same as recently attached to a huge share in the bank. It is in the press's business club on March 29th. It also says that the Federal Bank has not had information about the negotiations between the Council and the Deutsche Bank and that such agreements were in preparation. On the other hand, a council does not want to confirm that such agreements were prior to October or shortly before the trade took place. Madam President. As you read the report, you naturally wonder whether the harbor bank put in the contract for sale of the so - called correction regulations, i.e. that if the office of the World Bank were to become more valuable in later stages, it would be used by the Sustainer in some way. I think most people are remembered as selling the Lands Bank at the City of Paying this year. There was no such law then in the deal, and the federal bank was made of considerable sums. I'd like to ask the public custodian in this case, the highest. Prime Minister, who under him is hearing the Council of Iceland, whether he knows whether he knows that the Council of the Council has set the rights in the agreement, and then he intends to see if he intends to find out why the Council of Deutsche Bank and the Council of Copenhagen, which was probably ready in October, came so late. As a result of a news report in the magazine yesterday, Frank Brosens, founder and owner of the Taconic Capital, at an investment conference in Chicago at the end of October last year felt that he was right in the stocks of a Congress of about 100, which is a significantly higher success than the Navy sold. The question is, Is there a new civil war?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u20	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is bring in the government, i.e. The government, has no direct involvement, no direct access to the financial phenomena in which the Council of Jehovah's Witnesses operates, and in the same way, it is applicable to sales of its object of possession. I just have to admit that because of what I've mentioned, I'm not aware of the possible effects of business agreements that might have been in that part of the society. All I can say about these matters is that we're discussing companies that are unsolved, that is, at any given time, a considerable amount of observation about what things are worth. In this regard, some feel that things are equally valuable to themselves. We see recent contracts running around that financial companies such as Acion's banks account for 80% of their financial value, which naturally raises the question of why such companies are not dissolved if the inner value, which said their financial value, is actually above the market value. Nevertheless, in many lands financial companies are selling to a considerable extent under the written value of possessions. As you can see, I don't have the information to answer exactly the points that are pointed to me about the shift and warning that the Councilman may have done. We have no chance at all. But I don't think it's the right thing to say. A senator may be calling for this and getting an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u21	A respectable president. Of course, we realize that the Council is an independent institution, but that is not what Iceland's Navy is as foreign ministers. The secret bank heard under the current prime minister as he sat in the office of secretary of finance, so he has had to say for almost four years, but as it is known, he brought with him the matter of the Federal Council. As you can see, Iceland's Navy has lost about 5 billion dollars. to sell the letters in the Council of Buy. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is there reason to believe that there are other items sold during the past years and years? Has any assessment asked for it on duty of Ministers? I agree with the highest. Prime Minister in it and rejoices in the declaration that a clear answer to this is needed. Is there a set of corrections in the contract? Do we face the fact that this system, these people, has played at Icelandic parties again and has made us sell possessions at a lower price than others since then shop, because they know more about it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u22	A respectable president. One of the measures taken during the ensuing years was to establish a special holding partner in the Federal Bank to care for property because of the various mortgage property that was then taken over or had fallen into the scene. If anything is, I believe that experience has shown that it was a reasonable option because the choice, to take all these assets in the arms, and to put them in some kind of fast - selling process, someone would have called it at that time a fire sale, certainly was there. But they decided to set aside time, set up this group, hire people, appoint special government over the Society, in order to manage the sales and handling of these assets. The result has been, if you look at the economy of the World Bank, that there has been considerable growth in these activities in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u23	Madam President. Presumptuousness and balance were the motto of the prime minister during the course of the discussion. So it would be tempting to ask the highest question. Presidency minister of the short - vision and election frauds displayed in not raising contributions to hospital services by more than 0.41% next year, which will result in an increased number of patients having to be cut down to the Akureyri hospital and at the Land Hospital. It would also be tempting to ask about the shortsighted and lack of a sense of justice that is expressed in not supporting more fully those who live in poverty in the land and the 6 you know. children who live in want, not to be more supportive to those who have the lowest salary. That's a fair thing. But I'm going to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it not a shortsighted view of the budget when it comes to the new business life? We are about to face a radical reality with artificial intelligence, self - abuse, changes in jobs where machines not only take over the role of the muscle but also the power of the mind. If, in these tense times, people wanted to lower taxes, would it not have been better to reduce the insurance fee than in general, similar steps, thus providing conditions for well - paying jobs and knowledge companies instead of promoting personal consumption when we experience metres? Isn't it necessary that universities in Iceland stand as high schools in other parts of the North? Won't it be our colleges who have to prepare us for this new career? I ask them: Is the prime minister ready for this discussion to consider making money and laying the foundation for more varied and better careers in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u24	Madam President. It was time for us to receive the government's income provisions until one day in mid - November, something like that, before the coming year. We have made changes and have brought it up with the budget bill, and we have moved it on until early September. Now that we've taken an additional step with the government budget, we've started looking into the next five years when we look at the income and pay line. When people come here and say that there's not enough money to be spent in any single group of cases, whether it's the hospital service, the social security, whether it's in the collective agreements to those with the lowest salary or education, research and development, then it's fine to have what we've been discussing here for the past few days, which is the government's financial policy. We have provided a plan to turn over the money, to reduce debt, and yet to add contributions to all the most important items. Especially do we have priorities in regard to health and social matters. The reason for the growth in hospital service between years of age is not greater than it is, and this is why we made the last few years a decision to make a large contribution of several billion dollars. We keep all that increase in the budget and improve. This is how I could track all the joints I had. A senator came in. These are called poverty, those who have remembered among their hands. Show me a year in the history of Congress, where we're making more money on social security than we're doing this year. We put 22 billion in the social security for the New Year's so as to better repair seniors who don't have enough money to reduce damages. We have set aside billions of financial programs to improve the environment of disability, to bring us closer to the recently implemented arrangement. Finally, in recent years large contributions have been being made to the competitive fund, and this will continue to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u25	Madam President. There is absolutely no disagreement about taking up a new job and looking ahead, but it may be more frightening to see that this priorities in the interests of the rich instead of adjusting the country's standard of living should be in the future. Why do humans not use other means? Why don't people use the revenue balance device? Why do humans not use the tax system's equations? Why don't people charge higher resource costs? Why don't you go to a gambling tax? Why do people not take wealth taxes to respond to the desperate need in the community? I'd like to finally ask, because my uncles, the highest. Prime Minister and secretary of finance, have they succeeded in using foreign newspapers on the money policy, the gang policy: Do they agree on anything? Does the prime minister agree with his uncle, that taxation is the opposite of freedom?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u26	Madam President. I must admit that it is only difficult to keep threads here in this discussion. For taxes: Yes, we do not believe that there is a reason to increase the tax burden in the country, but compared with OECD or other neighboring countries, the tax burden in Iceland is quite high. We are not proclaiming much tax losses in this financial program. It's a misunderstanding if you think it's being done, because I don't think it's a big deal now. What we have seen in recent years is a substantial increase in financial resources, the private consumption has been taking over. There's a big beat in the economy, a lot of economic growth. It is not exactly economic conditions that call for the State to be expanding in the economy. However, when it comes to money policy, it is simple to point out that we have just taken the matter into account. It is clear on the basis of what we are doing that work. There is no reason to believe that there is a difference between us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u27	Madam President. We politicians often remind us of how important the innovation is, how important it is to society's progress. We talk a lot about research on the development of the workplace, and this is being done by all means. The government's national budget, which is its political economics, is one of the topic areas referred to as research, innovation, and knowledge branches. It includes the basic funds involved. There are also goals, that are actually one of the swollen parallels that we have seen in several areas, that Iceland will be leading to research and knowledge, leading to that. Where will we not be leading in this century? Under it is such an increasing production in this field, increasing practicality and new jobs in the sector of knowledge. Tables on how the language works do not contain any money, but the more often it will be: Be the priority within the box. Madam President. This will help all to see the box at the end of this chapter. It shows that contributions to 2018 drop by 120 million. K. but then, next year to 2022, the average increase between the years in donations is 120 million. A k., or the answer to a villa at a expensive location in the capital. I'm asking the highest. Minister of innovation: How does this peculiar budget rhyme with the needs of society, what is this strange aim for a globally leading position? I'm not asking you to think about government matters, I'm asking you for meaningful answers to the exact question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u28	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that financial plans are ambitious goals and ideals. It is very aware that there are no numbers behind it. If there were more money in this party like others, I would welcome it. I think a vision of the future is that we will be leading in research and knowledge. I think we have every right to do that, and I believe that. The primary objective of the topic field is this global competitive environment of research and innovation. We highlight these benefits; transparency, international cooperation, and success. In recent years, we have a huge increase in funds for development. It has been a focus, and it was during the last term, and it is clear that it will continue to be a focus point in this terms of terms. I think we'll remember as I say we can do a lot in the years to come. I think, too, that with the technology that is now a marvelous opportunity ahead of us. I am sure that such projects and changes do not all have to cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u29	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm going to admit that there have certainly been large-scale contributions to research and development for even years, I'm not saying we're very bad, but I'm trying to match this goal. I'm telling you, it's 500,600 million. K. In five years no innovation, research, and development in Iceland guarantees anything about these high goals, since, in fact, these contributions are still under the normal standards. We're talking about climate goals, innovation, industry, tourism innovation, agriculture and fishing roads. It's also part of college. In the geological field, there's a million dollars of trouble. Professors cannot be hired, so it is not only the funds that get used to money but also the entire course, the university level, the financial resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u30	Madam President. I've got a lot of heart to put these issues on and I'll do it. I'm pointing out that this financial scheme is not, of course, the budget. Here we go. A senator into education. Of course, dealing with them and discussing them is a matter of work for another minister. But it is true that innovation is contrary to all articles. Some might say that these pillars are difficult for us to live with, but I think they also contain wonderful opportunities. I can't agree with what. A senator says that the funds are overcrowded. It may well be said that they may be funded, but they are not overbrowded in that sense. There's been an increase in this fund. That is why I feel that it is not quite fair to watch what comes in addition to what is now, but I feel that we need to take it over a little longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u31	A respectable president. Here we vote for financial policy, with a border on government spending for the next year, the economic policy that requires both the taking of a wave and the support of a romantic dance into economic management. This is a precautionary period of high economic growth and tension in society at the same time as we try to cultivate our garden and increase contributions to important social infrastructure. I believe this financial agenda will make us successful in the context of other financial instruments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u32	Madam President. The financial policy review stated that there was much uncertainty on the basis of the financial policy policy, not being taken in sufficient consideration for the policy-making, the underlying issue, and the warning that governments could enter a financial crisis in case the sequences were not predicted. In this policy, in addition to the rules that were legal against our left green votes and solidar agreements on public finance, the additional rule that this is a special budget. Here, therefore, is a highly conservative right - to - to - the - go financial policy, in which, at the same time, there is insufficient assurance that policy will produce the desired results. The cumulative needs of investment in the community are not taken into account. It is recognized in the committee's list of parts rather than referred to other means, such as private or financing on social projects. [[The president calls.]] Me and the senators of the left green, we say no to this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u33	A respectable president. The laws on government finance are set out this process on financial policies, financial plans, and financial laws. In financial policy, certain features of the economy are to be set aside for the next five years and nothing but disasters can lead to a review of that policy. In this course, there is, among other things, that the problem is that all monopolitan income, all, no exceptions, should go to subsidies, even though it would be practical to place such subsidies in planned implementations. This is difficult, but perhaps interesting challenges, and we look forward to observing how this law is being applied. We don't think it's advisable to keep this policy, so we'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u34	Madam President. We vote on a policy that will apply to the next five years, it's not gonna be an election in the meantime, which I really hope will be. We can see this in the strategy that will reflect what we have expected in the smaller parts and what we left greens have discussed in connection with policy and financial matters. The plan reflects the charge roof and the policy will lock us up unless there's some kind of disaster involved. The person on the subject, including the one on the subject, has to be taken into account. The financial council that's supposed to be independent. It says: On the basis of the magnitude of the uncertainty of the future, financial advice is that even if intuition leads to transparency, it is going against other baselines to stimulus the entire financial policy. The advice also criticizes the charge roof and considers it totally unacceptable to lock us in in the way it is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u35	A respectable president. We're looking at five years in the same time as all political groups, including those in the government, have prepared and built high expectations among the people of the country that they will finally have investments in the interiors. This policy is not the reasonable mixed economy that needs to be applied during this time. We realize that we are in a difficult place in an economic situation. However, we must make needed investments. Now, for example, there is an opportunity to weigh against the expansion and to make significant investments in the country, in the country, where the press is smaller, where economic growth was not 7.2% last year. We think it's too conservative. We think it's an inactivity which is also the politics of the right human being. [[The president calls.]] So we'll say no to this policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u36	Madam President. This policy confirms the betrayal of the election code of the administrations given in the fall. It also exposes the two groups, a bright future, and a restoration, who have finally cut the mask and appear only as classic right categories. Especially do we warn about the spending rule that actually requires more and more progressive economic systems to be essential for our ability to live up to what we promised. Experience will show us that we're going to have a beautiful year. That's when the government lands in a straitjacket. There's one weapon in the armory, that's the cut-off knife. We know who he's gonna bite at, chief. Secretary of health. We will vote for a change in this rule to be released, but we will not accept financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u37	Madam President. It is certainly a joy to see many members of the United States who have seen themselves available for this vote, and it would have been nice to see more people coming here when we were discussing this matter. It's complicated. It's a big deal. There may not be many pages, but there have been an amazing number of good reasons for rejecting this matter, a number of good reasons. There is, in fact, only one thing that matters. These financial policies do not meet laws on public financial matters. This, on its own, should be a reason to say no to this. No matter how much people were observing the discussion on this course, everyone should realize that it is a bad policy that does not fulfill the law. So everybody should say no, as Porta's gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u38	Madam President. In politics, a bright future has been arranged to handle matters with responsibility and to honor long - term thinking in all decisions. In this financial policy, it has become a balanced way of interaction that is shown, in which the government's financial affairs are in harmony with the grand economic stride we are in, where public funds are responding to the economic rhythms that we have, unfortunately, an infinite history of failure. We have an infinite story of running up expenses at the time when we are contributing to the expansion. But at the same time, this financial policy will open up to the fact that once, in the latter part of the season, it will be possible to do more intensively in just the built-in structure that was agreed on before the elections in the fall. [[The president calls.]] [[Disturbing at the council hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u39	A respectable president. The financial agenda set here for the next five years reflects a very good economic outlook. We will see that the economy will be new to pay the state's debt. We will continue to run the state with rest, which is not a self - worth object in Europe today, as many know. We remember the same time that we return the rest of our debt and that our contributions can be added to all the most important problems. This is followed by an increase of 8.5% in the current year according to budget. That's an enormous increase in expenses. I have to say, I feel a bit hollow in it, when we have increased our expenses as rapidly as we can see, and here we continue to improve, even though the main theme of the government stand is that there is not enough to be done. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] There is one thing that we should agree on: If something is, then this financial policy may not be sufficiently conservative according to the circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u40	A respectable president. The policies we vote for here put the box on financial plans to five years of age that we will discuss here at the council these days. With this direction and this focus, we are heeding the government's policies, restoration, putting the welfare and health issues in full priority, but at the same time putting up with them during the thawing season, paying attention to the danger signals that are on and repeated warnings - we have previously been burning ourselves to avoid them - promoting a balance in the government business and thus making an advantage for the possibility of mastering the money that we can reduce growth within some year, which is the most important interest of Icelandic society and Icelandic consumers. Reverence says yes to this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u41	Madam President. It's the highest word here. A health minister to show responsibility for the future. Is it a responsibility to look down at the entrances? Is it a responsibility to see our schools that are going to cope with the future being halfways against the northern countries? Is it a responsibility to be a minister of paintings and to see the need to cut down hospital services next year rather than to get income and get even? No, Madam President. Running from the election is a cowardly matter, and it is subjugation to give all the things left behind to the great body in the administrative work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u42	A respectable president. I can't put a word in this explanation for the highest degree. Minister here. It's the highest word here. Health Minister for a moderate financial policy, where there has been an increase in financial resources, services, and other factors that mean an increase in cost to the general population. Clearly, when we discussed the budget plan yesterday, which, of course, is based on this policy. Which play are we in? V.E.G. A health minister speaks of a better year's access to further funding in the construction of timbers. That's when it's at the top. Prime Minister and says that the course is not sufficiently conservative. In two to three minutes, there was a conflict between the government. People can promise all beautiful things into the future, but a responsible attitude is to make the words speak, do as you have promised now, do not bring them into the future, and say: "I will ever fulfill my promises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u43	Madam President. There's something that tells me that this will not be a very long-lived document, even if the system of government is successful here, by embalmed all its people and loaded up by its militia, with all due respect for them, to have it through here, this will not last long. Hence, the unfavourable budget set in addition to the legal code on public finances. It is completely absurd, and it takes virtually every opportunity to fluctuate with public finances. The total government budget is approximately 41% of gross domestic product, but the roof is 41.5. It is a half - percent table for a bar, 12 billion. What Is Needed? Let us now say that the land production is culminating in this half - percent. Then the roof is breached, and it cannot even apply the scope of the law itself. This is absolutely an additional arrangement. There has been no decent argument here about why this new world's rights are being pushed into this future. [[The president calls.]] That is why a person is expected to agree with the change in purpose for this to go out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u44	A respectable president. I think it's my duty to come back here to answer what was on my mind, and I would like to ask someone to be careful when they accuse others of being different or accusing me and my party of being subversive to others. A bright future is a full involvement in this government. We support this financial policy. We support the responsible policy for the general economy. Money policy is an important tool for the general economy. We know that in every business, there is an entrance and, on the other hand, an outcome. These are expenses, and they're income. While we take a moderate, economic approach, at the same time we support a large increase in expenses that take place in 2017. We're adding. It's wrong, it's just false news that there is a medical cut because there is an increase in health care and as we know, financial planning is expected to improve the priority of health care matters as the time passes. [[Noise at the council hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Out of service.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u45	Madam President. I'd like to encourage the promotion of the executives here who are interested in the welfare system in Iceland not writing up on this document of the NGOs that are killing us, fellow members of the world. It's a big case. It's important to be on the right side of the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u46	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that now all members of the administrative body have declared no to this proposal. What does that mean? That means that political parties with over 90,000 votes from last elections say no. Yeah, say the board of directors. They had over 88,000 votes. I just want to point out this differences, this democratic differences, that we are looking at in the conclusions of this election here in the Generals. There's nothing wrong with saying no to this financial policy. It can be put back into the autumn along with the budget, updated with all that is missing, and taken into account what has been said about this course. Let's do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u47	Madam President. By permission of the president, the government covenant says about health matters: No matter what the economy or social situation, good health and health services will be the priority of the government. V.E.G. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson said just before he heard that the fortunes would be used to reduce the debt of state funds. Lowering debt is the priority of the Independence Party. Let us, then, boldly say it and acknowledge it. Then we're gonna have a snooze. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksdóttir, chairman of Refundation, said that reducing growth is the most important interest in the home. The most important interests and priorities - should they not be health care, health care? So says Secretary Óttarr Proppé: We need to wait until my terms are up in time. Was it not meant to be a secure health service? But what does this financial and financial agenda show? It is not to put the hospitals first, but a priority must be within the medical system if we are to be guided safely, which was promised before elections, some of which were merely emphasised. [[The president calls.]] This is the situation. This is the priority of this government. Just come out and admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u48	A respectable president. I find it very thought - provoking to listen to a discussion here from my share. When you look at the interest cases we've been through in recent years - we're just out of a very deep crisis - I think it's pretty clear from the memory of the section here, where there's a huge increase in expenses beyond what is already presented in a financial program, that they've learned nothing from the economic management of a single previous year. Not a thing. This is a significant increase in expenses and, at the same time, an effort is being made to maintain control when it comes to economic management. [[Up front.]] At the same time, I think of the cost of welfare as the proportion of the government's expenses was never higher, as is clearly stated in the current financial programme. I was amazed at the presentation of the smaller parts of this. Of course, I support the emphasis we have here. Here, responsible economy and at the same time, clear and complete priorities for the welfare of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u49	Madam President. It would have been desirable for the executives to have come and participate in the discussion while it was in progress. Now they're finally heard here. Now you're going to try to get the right part in some votes. V.E.G. A social minister comes here accusing other men of irresponsibility. Of course, that is irresponsible, even. Critics are criticized by the sources of this case, the financial council, the Sentennial Bank, and the rest of the world's population, having weakened the state's income base by about 50,470 billion dollars. The government's high - speeded product is made up of irons. It's all the beauty. That's why it's so lean into the future. If this is to be accepted, there is yet one very good reason to bring this government back from its absence of pleasure. V.E.G. A health minister says that there is a need to wait until the years are better. Better rivers? If not today in the seventh year, when do we have circumstances to build up in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] This statement doesn't make sense. It's not to us to be accused that the government is here with this cocky hand in which you would congratulate her, for she has written her graphics with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u50	A respectable president. It is always good to hear how the administrative body feels about its own matters. For good reason, we here in the memory of the situation and in the government opposition this issue, there is much more to be explained in financial policy to be gained. The financial adviser who is to be evaluated for financial policy makes many comments, but it is to be agreed with the same thing. This should be accepted with no change from the Council. For example, it says that correction to the impact of economic swings is the underlying yield and the real maintenance level unknown. It is not known if this is really a conservative policy, at least not under financial advice. [[Up front.]] - Yes, you already said that, but we don't know. There's nothing behind this course. There are no analyses. It's nothing. It's just the words. The review of the financial Council shows this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u51	A respectable president. What did the government groups promise when they began their partnership? They promised a marvelous increase in infrastructure, especially in health matters. It is evident here, although only a few ministers have spoken, that they do not quite have the key issue. What did they promise number two, especially a restoration and a bright future? They promised additional discussions and conversations with the government opposition to create peace and greater support for change. The person mentioned here does not know that he has been called to a financial conference. I know that the same is true of other government groups, as is true even though these groups have a greater proportion of members in the council and a smaller part of the votes behind them. Now it turns out that the expectations in the community are based on election promises, but they will not be fulfilled here with this financial policy. [[The president calls.]] She could've made more peace. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u52	Madam President. The last election showed that it was a requirement for political cooperation. It was not a clear line that came out of that election but that, after the election, the public insisted that we have to work together. This government has not shown that it has the maturity or ability to do anything in that direction. The promise was that there would be cooperation and consultation, but nothing has come out of it. It may be too optimistic, too much hope for us here in the lesser part, to expect this government to work as a welfare government, since it will never, although a bright future will speak in that direction and have a word that it is working to improve its well - being. She is a copy of the Independence Party, and she obeys all the information he makes for her. This government will not be equal in the country. [[The president calls.]] That's why we need to take her down as soon as possible. It's one person's big deal. I challenge well - meaning senators here to think their own way. [[The president calls.]] Is this government going to be stuck with this government for the next four years? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u53	A respectable president. V.E.G. The welfare minister comes here and gnarts because the contribution to welfare has never been more objective, as if here is the classic left-hand government to be concerned about welfare matters. I'm the highest. Minister to read p. 16 of a proposal for a hearing about a financial plan. This is the way to entertain the speakers, I'm going to keep this picture in the air, because here you can see the combination as a proportion of GDP. It goes up slightly between years, almost what it was last around 2015, but it drops back in the five years and goes under what it is this year. So let's stop paddling around like that. Minister for further entertainment, I'll read from this record, with the permission of the president: The rate of growth during the past year was 1.5%, but a decrease in growth is expected at 1% or
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u54	Madam President. We're about to vote for financial policy for the next five years. We're setting course for the next five years. Before elections, all groups spoke of the need to be put more in the infrastructure. There is not enough access to the infrastructure policy here being offered and proclaimed. Like a snooze. The senator who spoke before me showed in a graphic way the combination is, with the strategy that is based on the course we are about to vote for now, to be drawn together. These are bad news for the people of the land, and these are particularly bad news for those who are low in income and who need strong inner resources to live in well - being and to live in good health. [[The president calls.]] There are very good reasons to say no to the policy being set here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u55	Madam President. It's the government of rich people. Let's not forget it. She is not ready to make money where they are expected. She doesn't want to pay the fee to be met with elections that I can't remember better than an independent party, a restoration and a bright future have discussed before elections. It was not said by these categories that they were just going to put puny in the medical affairs, and later during the term, perhaps something would be done a little more for other classes of subjects. I'm not familiar with the highest. A minister of finance spoke that way in my district. It was said of building wood. [[Top of the list: Amateurs.]] - It's nothing but deception, indeed. There's a real need for infrastructure here. I'm not familiar with the highest. One road official said that there was no need to build so much up and that only a few billion men were able to do so. This was an approved transport program that he shared with others, but it was not that he was able to finance and will not survive in the years to come, not by this policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u56	A respectable president. At this vote, what should rightly be heard on the budget is a good deal because here we are primarily talking about the income and the pay line, the maintenance goals, the debt development and so on. [[Up front.]] On the basis of this work, we go to the financial program that is on the program later today. I feel that men speak in a cross when it comes to saying that the hold is too much and that there is a great lack on the outposts. It is obvious that those who speak for large - scale expenses, in current economic conditions, with 7% economic growth last year, with a very handsome economy this year, will have to undergo significant tax increases and remuneration changes. There is nothing else that can lay the basis for such statements. Then it's a good thing to wonder: Was it what was chosen for last fall, to have massive tax increases in this situation? [[Up front.]] You see, I think it's the sound of these Riverbre meetings that, unfortunately, did not succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u57	A respectable president. I'm here to quote Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, in a talk about the health system. I would especially like to ask a health minister to give a hearing ear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u58	The Senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u59	Quotation complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u60	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister called climate issues the most important issues of the day. Where would they be in this fine financial program now? It's added to the environment at first, then collapse or decline in the next few years, and then it comes in a tiny patch of 20211⁄2022. Energy markets place several times 60 million to 70 million each year to the jury. I traced studies and innovations with either a reduction of 120 million or 120 million. K. each year's donation. So I can't see that it's a vision or a responsibility. I think it's absolutely right not to vote for this thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u61	Madam President. I just want to come up here and thank you very much. Prime Minister for participating in the discussion. I think that's what we're talking about. The members of the board are counting on the fingers of one hand, three who participated in this long - term debate, this policy that the government is going to follow. Thank you very much. Prime Minister and the highest. Councilmen here have come up and tried to defend this course. However, we have not yet received an explanation on how a greater proportion of the budgetary committees will reach the conclusion that I will not respond to the indications of a financial body, which I went over here in both a speech and a speech explanation, pointing out to all the economic uncertainty factors that exist in the policy, which point to a number of weaknesses in my policy, which are criticized by the legal requirement, as well as no comment is given on, but at the point of reference point that there is certainly a great need for investment, rather than the need to be solved by other means. Well, that's good, anyway. We're just glad people come into this discussion because it's the rod that's supposed to tie our hands far into the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u62	Madam President. Although late, I would like to give only reason to agree on this change proposal. She'd remember this whole thing coming up. The laws on public financial matters set out on how the government's budget can be used to balance the budget. It is a law that every five - year period should be equal, and each year it is not allowed to run a government fund with more than 2.5% angle, then the balance of debt is set. If this additional rule comes in, it is very likely to make it seem that not even this space would be there if one wanted to apply it. It is almost reasonable to think that if the land production was unexpectedly predicted to be half the percentage in years to come 18, 19, let's say 19, then there would be no room, there could not even be the scope of the law itself. There has been no sound argument, at least not economically, for the putting of this additional money - money fence into it. Unfortunately, it will be very tight on this government if it goes so badly that it stays for more than two years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u63	Madam President. Group VG supports the validation of this vacation agreement. I'd like to remind you and keep VG's views in discussions about the agreement here at the Hall of Congress, because in a contract the contract states that the EFTA nation has a right to its commitment to democracy, right and freedom, but at the same time Georgian civil rights are trampled on. We also expressed our concern to members of the WG's that the international agreement, such as the Paris Convention, is not clearly fulfilled. Therefore, I would like to encourage a foreign minister who is a great amateur of free trade agreements to seriously promote the commitment of the EFTA states to support sustainability, climate commitments, and, above all, to democracy, freedom of people and rights, to be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u64	Madam President. As with so many things in the words of this government, there is a word found in committees, as well as in a paper with the bill, an act of deception. It shows that more of the General and Education Committees stress that the measures involved do not reduce the security of candidates for international protection. That's fucking bullshit, Madam President. It's just that it's not right. It is laid down in this law to come from a secure source, and thus it has clearly put in unfounded applications. What we're suggesting here is that we immediately, without allowing any space, all those who come from so - called secure countries, which have no sound information or constant information about the possession of our heads, show that we immediately dismiss them all. We will vote against the part that has to do with this, but we will, of course, help correct the mistakes of the previous lawgiver here when it comes to a person's marriage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u65	A respectable president. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir does not share the opinion of more of the General and Education Committee. We do not believe that it will be possible to establish a preliminary law on some form of assembly payment from a so - called safe state that has so - called unsatisfactory applications. Neither term has been explained sufficiently within the committee to convince us that this will be a subject subject on every subject that comes to the government. That puts us in danger of violating the rights of people in the weakest position any of us might face, being a fugitive. As for the rest of the bill, which turns to correction of marriage and coexistence, the legislatator can only look at himself when we get away with such dramatic errors of legalization, that a minister must arrive two months after the law takes effect and corrects because there is the possibility of breaking people in town for that reason. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u66	Madam President. Change proposals for the memory of part of the universal and educational committees turn to the fact that we give the global protection of a fair trial to all individuals. This is an arrangement recommended by the United Nations Refugee Organization, the Red Cross of Iceland as well as the National Police Association of Iceland. It is incorruption that a global and educational committee has not even looked to this recommendation for the release of this case. So we suggest that these adjustments in my proposals be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u67	Madam President. This is a clean - looking operation, not a matter of whether we call it a secure state or a secure state of origin. The fact is the same. We have no relevant authority to confirm that this is a secure state or a secure state of state, whether the vow we choose to use. What we are doing with these laws is to support our never taking into account the circumstances of each individual if they come from this secure or secure country, whether it comes from its own. This vote here is simply about a change in word, which does not change how cold, cheap, and lost this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u68	Madam President. This adjustment is probably the worst thing that came from a greater part of the General and Education Committee on this matter. Despite the fact that I'm very opposed to all of them, I'm crazy about this. It is taking over, all authority, all the ability of the NTSB to intervene in the event of any tragic decision made by the Foreign Institute of Iceland. We know an example of children who were sent back to secure states, that victims of human halls were sent back to secure states. What we're doing here is to guarantee that the Foreign Institute can send unsupervised children, victims of human halls, whoever they want to, to so - called secure states, which are for very many not at all. We know that those who come from these kingdoms - the great responsibility of those who choose the kingdoms called a secure state - will not be given any treatments here after this is approved. They will not be treated righteously. This is a violation of European law, and this is a violation of human rights. I say no. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u69	Madam President. Here we are correcting an error that was responsible for the release of the previous council of foreigners. Let us take this time to realize only that because of an error in the texting process in this hall, marriage and living together were set aside when people apply for asylum here and abroad. We've received reports of couples affected by this, despite the fact that a minister has at 1st. said it didn't affect a few people. I would like to refer to the Ministry now to look at it personally, as we should, for it to be opened to the fact that people who believe that it was wrong, because of this error, sent in a request that their case be examined specifically and that it be done the most quickly. The shame we're ashamed of this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-06-56.u70	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that the reason we in Piranha are having this vote is simply because of 2k. But Comb 1. This bill is absolutely terrible, so we voted against it. Since these are also repairing and improving the legal status of the people, we will sit next to the payment of this whole bill.
