ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u1	A respectable president. Fish farms are in the dough. News of yesterday's case continues. A food management agency has to do with the introduction of two veterinarians in fish farming companies, that this relationship is not properly connected, and that has been complained to the General Agent. It's a terrible thing for a young and controversial industry. In this area of food management, where veterinary surgeons are to play an independent follow-up role, an intermediate trader of drugs to fish farms has been established. This monitoring may include Include a review of enlargement plans, that health guidelines are respected, and that if infection in a fish farm, appropriate measures should be taken. The actions may be burdensome, such as the revocation of a pervator, which is the most serious procedure. If a fish farmers buy that a vaccine with the same person can be considered to be worthy of his approval by the Allied agent for potential financial interests. It is possible that by growing fish farming the use of vaccine may increase and so the interests of the vaccine may become severe. This particular example provides vague information on how this business and interests are involved, and that is bad. Fish farms developing their activities are a matter of life - style that is as successful as possible, especially in view of the controversial nature of the structure. From within the sector, they hear that the act is unsolvable. The government must quickly strengthen its setting, an inexplicable setting is a recipe for disaster. Icelanders are required to set strict and clear standards for monitoring in all respects, just like Norwegians and Sweden, and to be professional and careful in building a complete vision. Normal and serious fees are part of that. A burnt child avoids the fire. We're burned by a waste layer on resource control. In this field, the General must make a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u2	Madam President. Today at the council, I wished to have a place to talk about. paritaprevir Theodóra Sigurlöllur's SigurlaugÞorsteinsdóttir and I want to start by thanking her for granting that request. The business of speaking is a place of thought. A senator was referring to my colleague. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, of March 28th, last. That's what happened. The senator asked to inform the council on emphasis, or the lack of the emphasis on the future in budgets last December, which she answered, by permission of the president: The challenge and aim were to achieve a well-balanced and joint result in the budgetary work, and they stressed that the adjustment of the proposals would work well with the past campaign, and, in my opinion, it was successful. I'm asking why. A senator how to claim this because no group of members of the General Assembly went to elections without a promise of a great improvement and raising money to health. Thus, it is incomprehensible that a bright future has faced opposition to its own promises that dealt well with other categories. In his talk, there was a sharp comment. A senator also, by permission of the President: I don't believe in corners. The communities don't do that. It goes by at least years until it really affects them. It's my vision, and my vision rhymes with the aims of a financial strategy that is intertwined with policy-makers and financial programmes in a more efficient way. I can't figure out what this is all about, Madam President. It was in the fall. The first function of the council was to win the budget. I get it. A senator rightly believes that if they were in opposition to more things until the election, they should not support their votes since the first day? Finally, the reason for saying "wow. " Senator, with permission from the President: ▪ In the beginning, the sky was between classes, and I did not like going into an enormous expansion because it is my vision that we should not do a corner every time a new government takes over. It creates imbalances, fluctuations, collapses, and conditions, as we can see at Aranesp. Now I've heard strange and other ideas that in 2008 the addiction of the public to flat - screened people has disappeared, but I've never heard before that a well - funded health system can cause the ocean to give up a number of workers in agriculture. [[The president calls.]] I would be interested in getting an explanation. A member of the body of this particular position of Aranesp. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u3	A respectable president. That's a lot of questions. I'll have to use these two minutes to try to explain my point. The work that took place on a budget committee for Christmas was consulted. Seven groups met to reach a common conclusion based on the emphasis that had been placed on the campaign, as I mentioned in reply to the question. paritaprevir The son of Leví, Gunnarsson. What happened then was that we came to a common conclusion. It was a responsibility, and it was settled and honestly, according to my opinion, that I agreed with the proposal for an increase in health - care budget, to be perfectly clear. The emphasis on the future was made clear. In the case of work, there is also a bright future for a new kind of work, a new strategy. When I talk about money changing my way of management, I'd like to mention that I am very happy that there are new laws on public finance, similar to those of our rural communities, where we set our goals, create standards, and follow them. It does not follow the specific emphasis given to special senators from each individual district; rather, professional emphasis is made on priorities, on the basis of human standards and work as measured by guidelines. I am delighted that such work is done today and in the future. I hope, though it was a very special reconciliation that was the result of the Board of Shepherds for Christmas, which was historical, I also hope that this process is historical in that way that it will never be done again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u4	Madam President. I just need to get out of the house right now. 14 followed by an urgent need. There are protests outside the Ministry of Health, there are protests that are already protested that the government is betraying the promises and promises she made to cope with the emergency situations in the case of people with mental illness in Iceland. I know from experience that there have been many more varied and more efficient strategies to be used in most cases. Now we get what a wet rag in the face to the highest. Health Minister Óttarr Proppé is going to provide the Matrix, which has worked years and years of good work - including some of its members. Help me, I don't know if I was here today if they didn't benefit - just over a month's wages for a senator to care for less than 200 clients for a year. I'm actually crazy about this. They barely scraped through the past year with 8 million, now being offered 1.5 million to do their job. It just means that it really does survive. I insist they realize they're playing with human lives here. There are no other options for these people, there are no other options less expensive. This is the cheapest option we have, or these people will end up inside the health system, much more expensive. I demand that we replace the annual salary of a senator, 13 million, to run this programme this year and remain something more next year. This is so outrageous, Madam President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u5	A respectable president. My plan was to have a word here with the Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, but since she's abroad, I have to have a word with myself, and I'm used to it. I don't have the patience to wait for her return to visit. I'd like to bring up the fact that in the financial program before 2018,2022, which we're going to discuss here, I'm taking the lead on the happiness, it's not that much of a lot of money on transportation. I'm not talking about the recent discussions, and it's certainly not the discussion that was here before the election when the policy of transportation was adopted. In 2017, about 33 billion are included in this group of litigators. In fact, it goes slightly up in the years to come, lowering between 2020 and 40 billion in 2020. This is about a 7 billion increase, and the price for development is not taken into account. The budget says, with the permission of a president: To improve safety and cope with increased traffic, we also need a great need to build up and development of the road system. It's not gonna be done with this money. So also says in this program, by permission of the president: ▪ Then aims to achieve energy exchange targets so that renewable, domestic energy is most useful and supported by public transport, air and uterus, as well as increasing the variety of transport practices within urban areas. with the special part of the program. Does anyone think that all these fine goals are included in this increase, a shameful little increase, that is to be joined when the need for reform is as rich as it really is?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u6	V.E.G. President. Before I come to what I really want to talk about, I want to draw attention to a blue neck hole. Councilmen, tops. President and Chief. Minister. Now that we've begun our awareness of the variety of someone in the world, I really hope that this campaign is going well and is happy to be involved here. General. V.E.G. President. Last week, a health committee worked on the guidance concerning the complex alcohol bill. The committee received good visitors at her meeting, guests working on social and health sciences; visitors who all warn of the agreed bill and believe that with its approval the success we have achieved in preventing them, including decreasing teen drinking and other success, risked; visitors who warn against the agreed bill and who take a note of studies that have been conducted, which believe that increased bioavailability may lead to higher consumption and thus have a negative impact on the well - being of children. These visitors also warned of the approval of the bill because they feel that the bill runs on the rights of children and young people to be free of pressure from the alcohol industry, and they also pointed out the association of alcohol and cancer, pointing to various cancer diseases that include. causes are caused by an increase in alcohol consumption. I hope so. Councilmen may agree that they will submit their resignation together and respond to the warnings of these professionals. I am afraid, though, that this will not be the case where the head of the welfare committee, the vice president of the welfare committee, and the second vice president of the welfare committee are all on the bill for increased access to alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u7	President. A year ago, the revelation was complete. The kid pointed to the new emperor's suit from the tailor in Panama, and everyone saw the scam, the interests, the posts, the insolence and the abuse of power. Seven years ago, the Revelation was complete, too. A report of the collapse by the World Council Committee of the Council was submitted on April 12. It was a disgusting society, no ideals, just opportunism and power struggle, as was said there. A few days ago, the Revelation was once again complete. Half-change and deception, corruption at the expense of people in the country, corruption that led to the complete collapse of the banking system, a collapse of disgusting society created by political opportunities and power struggles. I don't want to live in a disgusting society. I don't want to live in a society where prime minister lies to the nation. I don't want to live in a community of opportunities and power struggles. I don't want to live in a society of corruption, where the government's friends and family receive privileged treatment. On the other hand, I want to live in Iceland with friends and family, with the Churchfells and the Hadess, with the Landaholic pools, the Easter trains, and some volcanic eruptions. It's so easy to avoid living in a disgusting society. You can do this by taking responsibility for your choice, by whom you work, and by whom you give access to power. Your responsibility is yours, the highest. Secretary of finance and material resources, and you, the highest. Secretary of health. A continued disgusting society is at your disposal. No matter how noble your purpose may be, no matter how sincere you are in your actions, you allowed the lie back into society. You deliberately did so after the lie got up and do so every day as Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson. You did, despite the fact that the kid pointed out that the emperor was naked. Maybe you've been pointing to the naked emperor so often that you don't care. Maybe the kid in history is just the same kid in the story that was in Wolf, wolf. [[The president calls.]] If so, I hope I'm not ruining the end of history, but the wolf swallowed the kid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u8	Madam President. Hv. Housewives and members. Respectable people of the country. I stand before you today as though most days do, but at the same time a woman asks herself, " What are we doing here? What kind of community do we want to live in? That question is very important. We have the privilege of caring for the role of public members and should ask ourselves this question every day: What are we doing here? We who wield the power should set the example and establish a just and reasonable society in which counselors recognize their moral obligation to the people of the land. Here we are to create a society where each individual will live on his own terms. We have a moral obligation to ensure that all people here choose to have certain basic services, advanced health care services, good transportation, and a primary education system, where health systems work when people are sick, regardless of their habitat or financial resources, as we do not have to fear the impotence of health professionals who exist because of lack of money, health systems that we can simply trust. We have a moral obligation to ensure a safe transport system, where there is a real choice of transport that contributes to a environmental life - style, a transport system where people are not in danger of traveling around the country. We have a moral obligation to secure educational systems, where all school levels are excellent and with the services needed so that individuals with different needs can pursue study on equal terms. We need to create a system of education that will provide equal access to higher education for all people. When the government has set priorities for our community funds, it is a moral responsibility to secure these basics and well - beings of all, and we must not forget them. I don't think this government's the best interests are the poor and the common people of the country. It's the government of rich people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u9	Madam President. I want to say something. paritaprevir About Blue April, Lára Arnardóttir, and like all days, it should be the days of children, from whether we are talking about the day of autism, about drinking in a camp, or whatever we're talking about. That's why I was going to have a word here. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who lives abroad. He's a police officer and a senator who's been a member of a budget board and is now a member of a General and Education Committee. I wanted to talk to him about the state of the police after we saw financial programs. You see, it has been found in newspapers both yesterday and today that pedophiles are not appropriately punished because the police have not had the means to take action. It appears that the length of the study was explained by the chief police officer, but also by the fact that the computer research department of the police in the capital area is based on human mortality. There would be a number of cases, but the system could not get the same amount of packages as this one. Of course, a chief officer does not appreciate the lack of the resources needed to cope with this. If something is, then it must be our first duty to make sure that our children are safe, that we and our children need not fear that any child abuse will be free and that we need to face the parents'approach to our children and grandchildren. [[The president calls.]] The police do not have the resources to deal with this project, and they do not have it with a new national financial programme, in which financial support is by no means sufficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u10	Madam President. I'm going to discuss only the respect of the council under these terms. I can't help overreaching a surprising decrease in the disrespect shown here by the Minister of Justice to the council and members of Congress yesterday. Two members of the council spoke at a meeting yesterday and reminded them of their inquiries to the minister who is both about two months old, but reviewing this, counsellors are required to respond to council inquiry within 15 days. The minister came up in a pita and made the meeting team so down here, entitled President's Conference Board, that she spoke of a scene. Stand, Madam President, and that members of Congress would now have to do so well to respect the program. Madam President. This attitude toward the council was held by the Minister of Justice in the General Assembly on the same day as the front cover of the News News reports that the Minister of Justice has not intended to respect a judicial hearing since 2012 that was agreed here by the entire council to study the personalization of the banks unless something new was introduced. Madam President. They must in some way introduce representatives of the Commission to understand that they should respect the legal authority, respect the National Assembly. As a review for the non-consuming Minister of Justice, but I trust to be listening and looking at me, she seems to be doing it here in the middle room, and she sits in her office by the Congress. I hope to the highest. Ministers of Justice show respect for the council more than she did yesterday, but it may be wishful thinking to hope for greater respect from the highest. Minister of judicial matters, for she does not even respect her government's covenant. Today the press showed that she is not going to respect the monasteries said by permission of the president: ▪ The implementation of a improvement in sexual activity programme will be emphasized and stated at the General Assembly that digital sexual abuse will be defined in penal law. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The Minister of Justice expressed himself on this point today and said that there was no work within it to respect this section of the government covenant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u11	President has to ask. Councilmen to respect the amount of time offered here for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u12	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to react to some of the strange talks that have been presented in this discussion in any other way than because it's time for us to go to bed. Senators Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason, referred to here, were to have a word - and - word discussion with the members of the council today at a meeting of the Council of Northern America in Stockholm. They will be here tomorrow, so they cannot be blamed for being absent in this discussion, so that there is a clear explanation. [[Up front.]] I think it was before. Senators could be here for a discussion tomorrow. But let it go. On the other hand, I wanted to respond to what I would like to call a significant misunderstanding that has been going on during a discussion and that even appeared. on the front cover of the newspaper, which is relevant for members of Congress. It's been reported that the newsletter's interview was loud. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, did not use the word "unappreciative" in the conversation with the newspaper, does not mean that. Senators in general will not be incompetent for handling here at the council unless it defends their own financial resources, as the Constitution says. In fact, it may be noted that in the case of a case that led to the newsletter's announcement that the work of lawyers is in the way of working in behalf of their clients for certain matters, but lawyers under legal law and all the rules that apply to them will not be agreed with their clients on individual matters, let alone their clients in particular matters many years ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u13	Madam President. A new financial program of 20183/42022 introduced before the weekend will include the following: Until the end of the next few years, all the helicopters of the D.A. can be replaced. This is an investment of 14 billion. I believe this is a very positive news. This is a series of three Aerospectivee Super Puma helicopters to their year. The oldest, TF-LIF, is now 30 years old, and I believe this will be a great improvement for Iceland's security interests and the region where Iceland and the Nationalland Guard serve in the North Atlantic. The area covered by the National Reservation Service is 17 times bigger than Iceland, so I think this is a very positive step. I just wanted to be happy with the Senate because there are few things to celebrate here. This is a positive, big thing. I remember 30 years ago buying one helicopter. Now we are in a position to do better. So, frankly, I'm very pleased to say that this has been revealed. Before receiving this news on the budget of Friday, I had asked for a special discussion at the National Reservation Convention and a renewal of the helicopter. Hopefully, this discussion will be held at the council soon after Easter. But these are good news, and it is good to have some joy at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u14	Madam President. It's the first time I've ever put up a cross-country since I played Aessur Skarphéðinsson in a high school play a few decades ago, but now I do it with respect to the variety of someone else. It is now four days from the highest. A financial minister introduced a ceremony to a new financial program, which was invented in color and followed up with promises of grand structure. In four days since then, the leg has leaked off the paper, leaving a black/white right direction for the last government. In recent days, there have been a picture of a number of problems between governments, but what remains, when viewed, is that this conflict with the projection and the future of the Bjarts seems completely to be a home bridge. In the media and social media, they have been moved around, but the conclusion is that the course of the Independence Party has been absolutely high. This wrestling hasn't taken more than 80 days, Madam President. Gunnar Nelson would probably have been pleased with such a quick fight. Last night, head of the University of Iceland got up in the news and said that he was disappointed by financial policies to the next five years, and they did not agree with the promises made in the campaign in the fall. Then, Professor of the University of Iceland, Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, reports that the university is headed for an absolute failure, especially in Icelandic education, which is actually the highest level. Secretary of education. Madam President. During the following years, we will face the greatest change in community since the 19th - century industrial revolution. It is important that education become important in our lives so that we can make this transformation our own. There is no short - sighted task. We cannot continue to contribute less than half as much as any nation of northern lands for college. It's going to be the highest. A minister of education to get out of the depths, put his head above the surface, and look at the near reality, as he sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u15	A respectable president. For word's sake. paritaprevir I believe the son of Ármannsson of the Year is right to come up here in the speaker's chair. It is certainly true that in the case of such complex solutions presented here by the management and monitoring committee, a post-requisite report on privateisation of the Bank, the members of Congress will be in charge. The management and monitoring committee may speak and be precise in word selection. I've worked hard to stay, so I had a conversation with the News magazine yesterday and in an interview, saying that I thought it would be better if someone else was not. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson led to that exact work because his relationship was unfortunate in the light of the committee's topic. I stressed that we all must agree that the work of the administrative and monitoring committees would not be overshadowed. We've been trying to figure it out so far, and we're supposed to do it from now on. The expression "incompetent " is a word I have not used and will not use in this context. That's not appropriate in this context, and I'd like to guess in the General's symposium that that's not the word I would use here, and I don't intend to use it. I also want to make sure that I've had a conversation with you. paritaprevir Embraces the son of Níelsson, whom I treasure, and believe he chose well to be the chairman of the committee, but we agree, and a greater part of the committee is that it will improve the fact that another member of the Senate is leading the exact way to this work. This morning the Commission concluded that there was a problem. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson is leading to the end of the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law of Icelandic citizenship. These are changes that are primarily related to those without citizenship or that have come to a country as a child. The goal of the bill is to prevent citizenship by making it easier for those who do not have citizens to gain citizenship. The bill also presents a challenge to young people whose rights have been set here for an Icelandic citizen. It is then suggested to simplify the registration of the Icelandic civil rights of a child born abroad and of an Icelandic father and a foreign mother who is not married, and finally this bill is proposed to change the lawsuit for the registration of the Icelandic citizenship of adopted children when the Icelandic ideal parent is living abroad at the time of adoption. The changes vary, since there are already some laws that concern children and the stateless. On the other hand, the bill is intended to ensure improvement in terms of the preparation of two U.S. Pentateuch agreements, the 1954 Convention on Civility, and the 1961 Convention on Reducement. Then we have the bill prepared, including has been consulted with the United Nations Refugee Organization, which began a campaign at the end of 2014, designed to last for ten years with the guide in destroying global non-political state. A respectable president. I'd like to briefly review the key changes proposed in the bill. These are: First, it is suggested that a child receive Icelandic citizenship at birth if one parent is an Icelandic citizen, whether the child is born in the country or abroad or whether the child's parents have married. The change in wording is also suggested that references to the words "father " and" mother " be given instead of the word parent. This statement will also apply to a woman who has agreed that assisted reproduction techniques should be applied to her wife or to a partner. This change is primarily about children born abroad and has an Icelandic father who is not married with a foreign mother. It aims to balance the right of children whose parents have an Icelandic national rights at birth. In the meantime, it has been necessary to request citizenship for the child at the Foreign Institute and pay for a fee, but with the change, the child will only need to be registered at a national file, and the child will automatically receive an Icelandic citizen's right, such as children born abroad when parents are married. Second, there are several laws on the right of children to gain Icelandic citizenship. Aim them even. to extend the time that young people have today to wish for an Icelandic citizen. Other novelities concern the authority of children who are stateless or who have received international protection to request an Icelandic citizen. A law on a child born on the land that is without a citizen has been in Icelandic law for a long time. It is now suggested that verbal therapy be simplified and that a subject be required for a child in this position up to 21 years of age instead of 18 years of age. The rules for the birth of a child on board a Icelandic ship or a airship are new, but this change is in accordance with the Treaty of the United Nations from 1961 to reduce the loss of federal power. This suggests a slight change in the possibilities of those moving to a country of young years but has reached 18 years in order to request civil rights in a simpler way than with an application, the source being extended to 21 years of age instead of 20 years of age. Furthermore, the residence of these children is required here on earth from seven years to five years. Then there is a far greater authority than in the current law for a stateless child who has come to a country of years or a child who has been protected internationally. It is thus suggested that in such cases, you can request citizenship for a child after a three - year residence in this country until your 21 - year - old. Third, it is suggested that after five years of living in this country, adults who are not citizens can submit their citizenship application, but the general rule is seven years. Is this in harmony with the law of the fugitives who have come to the country and meet the definition of the international agreement on the status of refugees made on July 28, 1951, and on those who have been authorized on welfare grounds. Finally, a small change in the treatment of a case is suggested when an Icelandic ideal parent who lives in a foreign country has adopted a child according to the rules of his own country wishes the child's Icelandic citizenship. It is suggested that this case be handled by the businessman in the capital area, not today's Foreign Institute, but today. Furthermore, a adopted child before he is 18, is suggested to receive an Icelandic citizen's right to confirm adoption rather than a 12 - year - old. A respectable president. Implementing what is recommended here is part of the legal reforms required for Iceland to validate the agreement mentioned earlier, the United Nations Convention on Civility. With a new law on foreigners who entered into force on January 1, a new foreign law was adopted, which also aims to ensure improvement as a result of the validation of these agreements, but this bill is thought to be a legal basis for validation. A respectable president. I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that after this discussion, it be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u17	A respectable president. We are here at a turning point because it is not every day that we are trying to validate 60 - year - old international agreements. A lot of things seem to be looking for improvement in the bill, e.g. I'm celebrating, as I'm expected to be the highest. Ministers, because both of us are very interested in equality, that in place of the words father and mother, parents will be spoken of, and marriage is not necessary under law but is enough to live together. I'd still like to ask the Minister about the ART section of the bill. It is conditional where agricultural technology has been performed abroad according to national authority or courts. Such a trend in various countries is a source of local passage. I wondered, " Could this law become a sort of backdoor to a surrogate in Iceland without us accepting it in the right place? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u18	A respectable president. This is an excellent problem, and, of course, people have wondered about it. I've tried to make sure the answer is clear, and I understand that this is not possible because it's merely a mother's child, who is technically trained in marriage. This does not change that local passage is still prohibited by local law. This law should not, cannot, and is not intended to meet the challenges that truly exist in the case of the youths conceived in a foreign land. This law is not in response to the challenge. On the other hand, I feel that there is something that needs to be dealt with. this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u19	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer, and I'm glad she doesn't have to do this by planning a surrogate approach to the back door in Icelandic law. But I'm not as optimistic as the Minister on the fact that this is completely finished because the legal environment in countries where surrogacy is permitted is very different between countries. In some places it is true that a couple who take advantage of the services of a surrogate are under the law of their child's parents. The vision that this warrant is bound to the mother of a child to us may be quite vague when it comes to the legal environment of other countries. Clearly, this is something that we need to examine closely in the handling of the committee. I'll probably go to the minister's house with the help in that case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u20	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to review this matter specifically and discuss it. However, I note that what really matters is that it has the exact definition of a parent. This is where the parent is being referred. It is also made prominent that Iceland's National Registry is assigned to evaluate the value of parental data contributions, including Whether assisted reproduction techniques have been performed under government and courts authority. With assisted reproductive technology, the parent of the child who is married to the other parent is talking about ART if I can put it this clumsyly. Of course, these issues can become complex. I encourage the committee to discuss this in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u21	A respectable president. I want to come up here first and to celebrate. Minister is recommending this case today. This is a great justice for a large number of people, probably more than many of us suspect and in very delicate, often difficult matters. I'd like to be a little self-centered and watch it first, in this first answer at any other time, which makes it difficult for two fathers to fulfill the fact that on the other hand, the child is married to the woman who walked with the baby. It will solve a lot of things. First of all, I would like to ask if I didn't understand that such parents as well as others who have, and who have, have problems with the implementation of these laws can automatically enter when the bill becomes legal, if they are also able to apply only if they have received rejection so far? Isn't that the correct way of understanding for me in the first round?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u22	A respectable president. The legal requirement for these matters is that the law should be valid for all the applications submitted after the entry of the law and that, of course, people can apply for citizenship again if they have been rejected at any earlier stage. There's no way they can reimburse citizenship.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u23	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer from the highest. Minister of Justice. This raises another question that is somewhat larger. It claims that in this law here the parent has replaced father and mother and with all respect for all the fathers of the world and all the mothers of the world, it is a little hearty for me that in the laws relating to the various legal matters for families, it is beginning to consider using the word a parent or a guardian rather than sexuallyizing in this way. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The minister shares that opinion with me, since many of these things enter into her desks, capitals, and planned changes in law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u24	A respectable president. I can totally say that it's normal to use the word a parent when appropriate and in the case of parents, then the term that is used by humans must be used for it. I'm not going to rule out that there are issues that concern only mothers, but I think of mothers' protection. There are rules about maternal protection. I think we must stick to the term mother there, but when the phrase "discernment " comes into use, the term may well be used by the parent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u25	A respectable president. I'll see if I can follow a question from what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson reporting for local passage. This was particularly related to assisted reproductive techniques. However, the case of Article 4 can also be asked. to adopt by the government's foreign decision whether or not it is comparable to open up a ban on a surrogate barrier that the Supreme Court was proving five days ago, stating that a woman who gives birth to a child could renounce her natural position as a mother and prevent the pressure of a woman to use her body. That's the first question. If the minister realized that this could be opening up to the reason why it was not specifically discussed in the introduction and what it is that the committee should especially consider when it comes to reviewing the matter? [[The president calls.]] Then whether a minister has information on how many cases there have been that these laws would cover if the bill was legal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u26	A respectable president. I just want to make clear what I've said that nothing in this bill is made up of the plan in any way to escape the challenges that might be facing a little bit in our society that these days are having and that we have to deal with surrogacy. That's at least not the purpose of the bill, not the objective, nor should there be any room for it. For adoption, it is stated in Article 4. which is the subject of the Icelandic state of a child adopted by an Icelandic citizen, which is in view of the need for confirmation of the adoption so it has value in Iceland as well as to have the right effect according to adoption laws. This may be one of the points I would point to. A full-scale educational committee to refer specifically to a surrogate approach is concerned that this alone has an impact on the affairs of children conceived at surrogate services. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u27	A respectable president. Then I may reiterate the latter part of my questions that focus on how common or how many cases have come up as a minister who would change the treatment on the issues that this bill would be legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u28	A respectable president. The bill focuses mainly on providing protection for stateless children and adults. As I mentioned in my introduction, in the current law of the law, which is in part involved, we have received indications that in order to validate the committees of the international agreements intended to eliminate the loss of state, it needs to be subsidized or brought to a better degree certain rights. These are not many of the cases that come to this country, there are not many people who come here to Iceland that truly are citizens, but we have an incident that has been granted a citizenship right. There are very few cases that the Icelanders have had to contend with and deal with the lack of citizenship.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u29	Madam President. First, I want to celebrate our finally validating contracts signed in 1954 and 1961. I wanted to ask you specifically about 2. This bill, which says that the person born in this country who has been stateless since birth will receive an Icelandic citizen's address by writing a written announcement to the National Institute of Iceland before he is 21 years old. The report should be submitted by the guardians if he has not reached 21 years of age and the subject has remained continuously in this country since birth and at least For three years when the announcement is made. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has not seen grounds for rather complying with Article 1. a The agreement on implementation against statelessness, which shows that individuals can receive citizenship at birth in this country and why that route was not chosen, i.e. what the view was against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u30	A respectable president. No, working on this bill was not intended to change the general rules of civil rights. General rules for citizens' rights, which are in force here and in many countries around us, are that if this bill is taken up by a parent's state, they will not automatically after birth unless it is suggested that children born here be granted to an Icelandic citizen's rights. A general debate over the well - being of citizen rights may belong outside the precise bill and probably discuss it in a different field or under other people than these. In fact, I believe that I have every reason to do so myself. I've noticed that the citizens' rights for the implementation could be revised, but that work and opinion were out of the process of this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u31	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I may have to explain what I meant a little bit more. I'm only talking about giving children born here without citizenship at birth, i.e. That it is not a general rule to be born children here who have the citizenship rights of other countries or whose parents have citizenship from other countries will automatically lead to a stateless state, that they are automatically granted the right to be born here, while we take into account the goals found in Article 1. a The contract is a contract against the statelessness of children born without citizenship in countries that are involved in this agreement to receive citizenship at birth in that country. I specifically mention this, since some of the children of refugees were born here and that at least to dismiss them, since they have not been considered to be able to obtain Icelandic citizenship, nor could they be able to apply for civil rights from their homeland, since their position was a fugitive. So I ask, Is it not a reason to deal with it in these laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u32	A respectable president. I call attention to 2 st. The bill, which says: A person born in this country who has been stateless since birth gains Icelandic citizenship by writing out loud... [[PURPOSE: Within three years?]] Before he is 21 years old. By so doing, I believe that the United Nations Convention has been met with the United Nations Convention on Disregarding Civility, and I know as much as there is in a particular agreement with, for example. International refugee facility. I am expecting nothing more than this law, 2 / 15 ... would like to meet a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u33	A respectable president. It is my general opinion that citizens should be viewed as state-bound, not as reward, and that his services should apply more clear rules rather than narrower. It's with those glasses I've read this bill. I'm not going to have many words about it for now, but I can still tell you that it's seen and that the conclusion is that, in most cases, if not all of it, I can say in all cases I've seen, make sure that the rights given and reduce the number of cases and hopefully end up with an individual who has some connection with Iceland will be out of control. I'm not going to do any further in the articles, there are many places in which these deadlines are being evacuated from 18 to 21 years of age, being reimbursed from 12 to 18 years of age, are being evacuated once every time that those living in this country continuously can receive from 11 years of age to 13 years of age. This I think is all positive things. So I support the subject of the bill, even though of course I am assigned the right to take a stand on individual factors that may occur in the processing of the Committee. But I will always read those changes and look to them with glasses that we should clear the right to state and reduce the likelihood of not being a citizen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u34	Mr. President. I may say again that I celebrate this bill, but may be a possibility to explain only the words I made to the highest degree. Minister earlier on 2 st. The bill. It is certainly true that the agreement to decommission the state's lack of control provides two ways to meet the demands of that contract in terms of granting citizenship to children of the state. These routes are either the a- or the b-way, so to speak, which can be found in the first stipulation of a non-political agreement. The first stipulation is that citizens would be granted birth by law, that is found in the a- team, and the second law is found in the b- unit that allows governments to set temporary rules and some kind of formalities that apply to the citizens' rights of children born in the control areas of the Member States and how long it will take for such children to have their citizenship, etc. My opinion is that if the objective and input of the covenant are examined and if we consider the purpose of this contract, it is to prevent the loss of a citizen and to prevent, especially in this case, children being harmed by not having a share, but it can be very damaging to individuals to have no power. Therefore, I believe I have good reason to see if Iceland prefers not to clear up the claim of children born without a state's license here to gain an Icelandic citizenship rather than to place a limit on the fact that three years have passed since the baby's birth until it can get an Icelandic citizenship, i.e. Until it can report its presence here. Because, at any rate, existing legislation has led to the fact that refugee families who have children in this country are threatened by being expelled from the country despite their children's being born here, and while their children are not able to approach the state of any other country, which often puts these families in serious trouble when it comes to passing places, getting some kind of service, getting some kind of paper. Because, as we know under refugee rights, receiver countries are not allowed to take or apply for refugees from the states where they are fleeing, which would be against the reasons for their escape, i.e. it would be to attract the attention of the government of the country where the fugitive is in the world and what he is doing. As a result, I want to reiterate that I think it would be preferable for us to change this bill and hopefully take the highest part. The General and Education Committee will be with me in the case of the Committee that this provision could be changed as if a child born unpublished or expected to become a citizen at birth, should not be entitled to an Icelandic citizen at birth rather than to wait three years, because, as we know, a foreign agency has used a technical point to refer to the fact that the landmarks that have been given to refugees in this country are not usually landmarks like us here, Iceland. So, despite the fact that the children were born in Iceland, there is no basis for dismissing infants and their families from Iceland. I find this very boring and certainly possible in opposition to both the international refugee rights as well as the United Nations Children's Convention, as well as Article 8. The European Convention of Human Rights, which presents family life and right to privacy. Therefore, I think it is very important that in the case of the committee in this matter, we do not look only to the views that have been presented. Conventioners speaking at the highest. Minister, rather, we also take a very special view of this, that if we really care to eliminate the loss of our citizenship and to counteract the damage it can do to the individuals it can cause, we are going to work very hard to have a national law to allow national records to give the subject of a child born here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u35	A respectable president. It would just be inappropriate if I didn't take part in this discussion, a person who has had to work and swim in this environment to get a citizenship right for my children and do it here and there and everywhere. That's why I love this bill. I admit there are some cases that have come in to me where just the expectations of gay parents who have children have come a little between -- how do they say that in Icelandic? [[Take cover: ship and dock.]] Thank you so much, anyway. A senator, for saving me there. - I was especially happy to see it, and I am especially happy to hear the word that was spoken. Minister of Justice that we will continue in our hard work to update ourselves. I just wanted to, in view of our last discussion, to remind us of the words in our government covenants regarding immigrants and foreigners. I know we're also enforcing legislation on immigrants that we'll have constantly revised. I just wanted to come up and echo the government's viewpoint, with the permission of a president: ▪ In a population population, there is a man - made and varied experience that has resulted in enriching one's relationship. It will be easier for immigrants to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society. - This is exactly where we're doing it, from birth. It will be a regular welcome for visitors and aim to receive more refugees. In the future, funding will be guaranteed to provide emergency assistance to the international institutions. The introduction of new foreigners will be supported to ensure their effectiveness in appropriate institutions and services. The objective of humanity should be guided by the release of applications for international protection, in accordance with the United Nations refugee Convention, and the cut-off period without affecting careful court treatment. I don't think we have to worry that this is not going to be respected in this case. I don't even have to say right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u36	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the criminal treatment laws. These are changing as simple treatments for smaller cases of police and thus save the amount of time that will be taken care of. At the 148th floor. the legal action of a criminal is decreed to be committed by a police officer who falls under the charge of a police officer and he goes unscrupulously on the offense, these are so - called confessions, and the police believe that the penalty for the offense is only a guilt that does not exceed a certain amount in accordance with the Police Director's Regulation can be taken care of in the case. The handling of these cases has been by the hand of police to record a field report in the form of forms. The report is then signed by the defendant and delivered to him a copy of the report. Then the report is transferred to the police system at the police station, so the report is actually written twice. Now, police cars connected with the police system have been attacked and used by the latest technology to make better use of the police's human resources. Now it is possible to log the reports through a iPad directly into the police system. This bill suggests that a smaller fraction could be recorded directly into the local police system and thereby saved the time to fill out the local police report and record the incident again into the police system. These are proposed to change the law in order to make it clear that the police report can be signed electronically, including on screens, as with the publication of passports, as well as the provision of electronic reporting of the police. The safety of this arrangement has been evaluated. The conclusion is that the risks of this arrangement are within acceptable limits. V.E.G. President. I have explained the subject of the bill, but in other respects, I refer to the work. These are changes that, in my opinion, will be more efficient and will reduce the amount of time spent spending on smaller fractions. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, Minister on the risk assessment of this bill. What are some of the risk factors that were considered to be related to a person's appearance? V.E.G. Minister says it was within acceptable limits. Who was the point of the evaluation, and what factors were taken into consideration? I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to use these iPads for things other than electronics return them to reports. You know, they say that if a police officer has to hack in with his fingers on the iPads, they're not gonna be much of a waste of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u38	A respectable president. The risk most of having digital data is that it is lost. This is an ongoing challenge within the administration, which is increasingly electronic, if I may use the word I think is a great improvement. I think most people would agree on that. Then the primary challenge is that the data are not lost. In this case, it is determined how shipments pass from the iPad into the police system and how the system itself is finished. That's some kind of risk assessment, I don't know how technically the police system is taken out. I assume that these things have been examined, and I have been told that this is what you would expect from e-mailing data. As for the implementation of these iPads, I expect a script to be written on the iPad, so the signing is done, and it's expected to be done with a pen. I don't know if a police officer needs a keyboard. These are often simple reports. For them why. Senators who don't get into trouble often with the law, and I speak out of total inexperience as well, I think it's mostly a speed fine and such infractions. Such reports may not be extensive, but they need to be done. It's been double-worked. They need hands cut, but now I expect they no longer have to be typed, but they can be written electronically. I make this statement with them in advance that they may be receiving a keyboard, but at least I do. With my technical knowledge, I realized that it was written on the iPads.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I'd like to reiterate, first of all, my question about who was involved in security, which members were assigned to do this assessment, and then whether these iPads would be used for any other purpose than for the report. Now I understand that testing the speed of police cars should begin, so I get so much read out of the financial program at the top. Governments I'm thinking about whether or not there's a right to use iPads to measure the speed of the police or whether they're standing to buy any other equipment, whether the Minister is aware of that. That is, who was responsible for the security arrangements for the highest levels. Minister of Justice and then whether it is possible to use the iPads for any purpose other than writing out reports, which hopefully are very simple and do not have to hack into tablets on a large scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u40	A respectable president. There was an electronic advisory firm, I'm told that Stimak's name considered the risks involved. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the bill it is assumed that a minister can put in place a Regulation for further implementation of electronic signatures. This does not rule out the need to do so because it must be ensured that the signing is unrepeatable and that the delivery is done in a safe and authentic way, as the report says. I don't know about that, and there's no plan for that, at least not formally, and I should be aware that these iPads will be used for something other than writing reports. I don't know it, and I think I can claim that the iPads themselves aren't so technically equipped that they can, for example. new on rapid measurements or some sort of measurement. But I will not say. If it's possible to use the iPads for anything else, I'd be happy to say that you should try to find these iPads further use. I got it. I got it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to find out specifically about this and find out. It could be that they needed further relief, and I'm sure I'd say that at least I didn't. looking at it and that it would be the time for the council to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u41	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a passport law, no. 136/1998. This bill suggests the change that Iceland's National Registry will be authorized to make contracts for passports and manufacturing systems for passports up to ten years. According to 1st mg. 40. g. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, Member States in Period A are allowed by the Minister's approval to negotiate performance, business or other limited tasks for longer than one year, but not longer than five years. Two. 40 grams. The same law is permitted to agree with Generalis to negotiate performances, businesses, or other limited tasks for longer than five years. With the approval of the Generalis, of course, legal authority is being referred to. Iceland's national records have for some time prepared out invitations for purchases on passports and the renewal of the manufacturing system for passports. The current system is owned by Iceland's National Records and has arrived at its own age. It is Iceland's National Publications Index, agreed by the Ministry that the more practical policy is to negotiate a new system to at least eight years of age, to be prepared, of course, rather than to change the old system. The Ministry and the National Constitution of Iceland agree that this is the least cost, ensures good service, reduces the risk of production, and also meets all security conditions. It should be noted that there are very high demands for the production of passports, and the Icelandic government needs easy access to passports for publishing that meet the most strict international requirements. Icelandic passports are valuable, in view of their skills not only in Iceland but also of the entire Schengen area. Hence, it must be very difficult to fake your passports, and they need to meet security requirements that show that they will increase over the years. Several factors affect the more practical way to make a contract until the age of eight than five. You can, for example, do so. For example, the preparatory process takes about two years, and the cost of contracts is high. If it were to be made up for five years, a new invitation would have to be considered after three years instead of six years of age if it was completed until eight years of age. Thus a contract cost for the United States would be lower if it were made at least eight years of age. In addition, an eight - year contract time is expected to result in better contracts and more security in the addresses of the Icelandic state, i.e. The passports themselves. So the bill suggests that the Allied Parliament approves a warrant for the Iceland National Registry to negotiate these passport systems up to ten years of age. Since it is most likely that the same situation will occur after the end of a contract period, it is suggested that consent be maintained, not temporary, but that a roof be placed on the contract period, which is said to be ten years. It should be noted that, already, arrangements have been made to finance a contract for eight years. A respectable president. I've tore up key elements of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to the General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u42	A respectable president. You're right. You're right. A minister says that passports are extremely important data, not only because an international criminal organization buys them expensive prices but also because they are the only personal merits that the government gives on the land, on the other hand, until the bill. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér and other members of Congress on official identity IDs will be approved. Let it be between parts. That's why it's important that I do well, and I have to admit that I always have alarms when we start talking about how things work out. This is a reference to extracting the production of these basic data that are unique in the United States. The deportation of government projects does not always prove to be the lucky one to be taken care of when leaving the state box. It speaks of vast investments, and a minister noted that it had already been arranged to finance this campaign for eight years. But there is no record in the bill's text of the estimated cost of shopping on a government system, nor is there any possible cost of operating on the way to which these are proposed, the export of passports. These are some of the numbers that I think we really need if we are to make an informed decision as to whether this is a matter of interest to a government fund or not, even though we consider the narrow circle of friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u43	A respectable president. It may be a little simple in this case to believe that if this bill is legal, or changed, the implementation of passports, it is a work care. It's not like that. Of course, there have been contracts with companies that issue passports, and today there are a very small number of companies in the world who are specialised in the publishing of passports. One of them has been in Iceland, on our hands, publishing passports. Although the system was present in this country, i.e. The printing and more in this country and the versions themselves in a national file, the system itself would have to undergo significant technical changes, updates, if it should last forever. Thus, it has been estimated that renting such a publishing system, but not owns, of the few international companies who are specialized in such systems. This case will therefore only indicate a possible change in the implementation of the system or possession of the system as such. The project will still be with either national or administrative records. People are looking to the county for a passport version, a national record that has issued their passports. So I'd like to make sure that there's no change in this. It's just a question of whether to own the system or rent it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u44	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer, even though I have not heard the numbers I asked about. So I'm just gonna ask them again when the case comes to the treatment of the committee to get these matters straight. Today, the system is in this country, it was reported in the case of a minister. It's important, I believe, in two ways. On the one hand, national security, we are here talking about the foundation paper of the Icelandic state, which is a number of reasons for being produced here in the country. I'd like to ask the secretary if the risks of moving this thing out of the country were appreciated. However, I also ask if having an invitation to the entire EEA could result in the loss of passports in the way the payload could extend from what is currently available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u45	A respectable president. The production of passports is not a matter of leaving the country. It will still be with a national or other government agency based on incidents, but it will be produced here. The question is, do you want to buy such a system? From my viewpoint, it would not be unusual for the government to stress possession of such equipment. I have, for example. the opinion that the State should own certain property that houses the basics of society rather than rent, in many cases at least. This has been measured, however, so that the cost of uplifting this system or buying a new one would be so much greater than renting it that it is considered a failure to try. The value of money, however, is not because of the need for an invitation. The money we may have assumed to go into this - we're not going to give it up before the auction, but we hope to get a favorable offer after this tender offer and that as the lowest money goes into this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u46	Mr. President. I want to go on the same way as you did. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson discussing the cost estimate and the reasons why this change is currently taking place. I hear that argument at the highest. Ministers that it is considered more beneficial for the treasure of the state, as it might seem, that this is the way it should be, but I ask myself, The General and Education Committee will be provided with access to this cost assessment so that they can assess for themselves whether they consider this to be the correct assessment by the Ministry and National Accounting and then possibly under some kind of confidence not to interfere with the release. I'm asking if the highest. A minister would consider such information in order to do so. Congress members of the General and Education Committee can take an informed stand on the bill and its rationality for the economy of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u47	A respectable president. I'm not gonna lay down. The top-of-the-art Board of Education and the lines on what to ask and what not. Of course, I encourage the committee to discuss the cost side. That's the bill's main focus, the cost side. So there is no reason but to discuss it specifically. There's no reason to give a what. For more information on the benefits and shortcomings of the donor, see the box "How to Deal With Others, " i.e. and failure to rent or buy a system. There may be numbers that can be stated about the cost of a new system. Buying a system like this, or rent, is only after a considerable amount of work, and it tells me that something is complicated. I am informed that it will take two years to prepare an invitation in these matters, to do so, and to prepare contracts for renting such a system. To buy it would also involve spending a considerable amount of money in need analysis and so on. But I got it. The General and Education Committee is eager to discuss this matter. This is the main issue of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the Antiquities and will suggest to the General and Education Committee that she is familiar with the matter, especially with regard to cost analysis. V.E.G. According to a minister, this adjustment will not affect the level of service offered by Icelandic citizens when it comes to passport making. But now I'm asking if it's the highest. A minister is aware whether the present system, with this out - of - date device we use now, if I understand the supreme. Minister to the right, allowing the version of passports to be deleted before this tender invitation arrives. Or is there any concern that a waste of these devices could cause a level of service to the Icelanders to become inferior or that our passports in some way will be worse than other more efficient passports?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u49	A respectable president. I think I can trust to claim that the same system of passports will not meet security requirements after some year. There are certain requirements for passports, looks, and technical solutions, but passports are becoming electronic to a large extent. The system we have today is unable to handle that version. Then people tend to complain about hours of payment, and I have hopes that with a new system, you might be able to cut down extra passports. Renewing of these tools serves the same laws as other electronic devices, it needs to be updated. It is necessary to bite the apples of the system or to buy new ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u50	Mr. President. I'm gonna ask you the same question as why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson regarding this arrangement. The bill says, with President's permission: It is permitted to negotiate passports and the manufacturing system for passports up to ten years. Furthermore, the report says, with permission from the president: ...importations for purchases on passports and renewal of the manufacturing system for passports. - And then we're talking about renting equipment with this offer. I want it to be completely clear: Is it assumed in the bill that if the invitation goes on to the point that the best offer is to be made to make a foreign passport, it will not be authorized, that it is absolutely clear that a passport will always be made in Iceland? It's a big national security issue for us, not to mention the service level. In this context, we know that the black market for passports is vast. French passports have e.g. selling on the black market for up to 4,000 dollars and American for about $2,000, Spanish for $1,850, these are the numbers I felt in the news of this. The security factors and all of this -- it's all gonna have to meet the major modern conditions, I totally agree with the highest. Minister of it, but we need to examine the risk analysis against the possibility that this would be produced abroad if this law could render that possible. Of course, we want to watch out for security in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to be in charge of the current passport law, No. 136/1998, occurs in 4 mg. 2.g. that Iceland's National Registry can assign others to care for special projects for the manufacture and registration of information in a passport book. It's also fun to mention 5 mg. states that a passport is owned by the Icelandic government to be maintained. Therefore, the source has been present and will still be available for Iceland's National Registry to present specific roles in the publishing of passports. This bill does not indicate any morphological transformation in this regard. This is merely the government's warrant for making a contract for longer than five years, as is the case in financial terms, where there is a legal warrant for a longer period of rent contracts than five years. It is the universal law regarding the financial affairs of the state that government agencies and individual offices are not authorized to make contracts for the length of five years, and that is true of anything. No longer than five years of rent contracts can be made except by law. When it comes to rent contracts, I take it only as an example, it is common to say that this law is expressed in financial terms. However, here it is being suggested that, instead of having such a legal warrant every year, it is legalized because we have a law so well that we have laws for publishing passports best to keep this authority in that law so that we can deal with and obtain the most practical agreements, whether it is intended to buy or rent the system. I drew attention to the fact that even if people were to buy a system, they could negotiate to pay it over five or six years, and that would also require legal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u52	Madam President. To be honest, I knew not to tell you because this warrant is present in current law, and it's a little interesting. Although the project has not yet been issued in other countries, there are always questions about security issues in publishing documents of this type. As I traced the past, economic incentives are in order to stand in the black market version on passports in one way or another considerably high. I agree completely in the second place, then this bill is the best part. But maybe we should take advantage of this discussion now, in an effort to sharpen the rules of future passports. There is a small demand for used distribution machines that have become out - of - date, so I understand why the rent needle is probably more reasonable to the state's funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u53	A respectable president. I can in itself feel compassion for the fact that human beings want to ensure that basic government institutions, whether property, systems for basic services, or other services, are the property of the Icelandic state and that the work is being done here on land. When it comes to an extremely specialized market, such as publishing passports or mints, so I take an example that's a little connected, then it's just that there are only a few companies in the world that are specialised in that area and that we've been looking for. These are huge quality control companies and the types of companies are extremely high security requirements, and I believe that the interests of the Icelandic government and citizens should be kept in business with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u54	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws on taxes, customs, and fees. They all come together according to tradition. 1st Correction of a law on income taxes and insurance bill. In view of the loss of a seaman's discount from January 1, 2014, reference to a seaman's discount will be released in the income tax law. Then there is a law on income taxes to find evidence on the insurance policy of pension rights and the operation of pension funds. The regulations are on deduction due to the annual payoffs of employees and people who are engaged in their own business or independent activities paid for pension funds, business banks, savings and stock markets and insurance companies. It is suggested that these references also include the branch offices of foreign workers in the country. In addition, there is a law on insurance that stipulates the income of a general insurance fee, beyond the ratio to which the equation should be determined and the reduction of the microenergy burden of pensions, to cover the government insurance agency to finance social security and accidents. Correction of the addition of the list in the law will measure the proportion to which the feed reserve will receive its share of the currency. And more importantly, it's going to be a government insurance agency to finance Social Security and Accident Insurance, as so far. It is also suggested that reference be given to disfellowshipped laws. 2. It's a partner's sharing. The bill suggests a change in the terms of income taxation based on ESAs, EFTA monitoring centre, from 7 April 2016, where it was concluded that the European Commission's European Commission's common tax law broke down against the EEA Convention, on the validation and free flow of funds, by allowing only countries with unlimited tax law to apply and obtain a corresponding tax authority. It will also be allowed by partners of households in another member of the European Economic Area, Member States of the European Free Trade Association or the Faeroe Islands Convention, as well as by a fixed European Economic Area Work Centre. Empathy depends on conditions that include: is an example of dancing. The interaggregation of a partner across the border greatly increases the need for simple regulations. It is suggested that the measures of the loss will be adjusted to simplify it, since the use of older losses has been misinformed. 3. Limitation of interest rates. The change in the terms of income taxation is about the limitation of interest charges. The rule was passed by the government's law on tax frauds, et cetera. and was intended to prevent international corporate partnerships from reducing their tax payments by financing a company in one state by borrowing from a partner in a different province if there is a lower tax rate. In terms of the economic and business committees' practices of the bill as the law mentioned above, the change was made that the requirement does not apply in the case of the borrower to an unlimited taxable province. The Commission concluded that the nature of the matter, according to minimally, when both borrowers and borrowers were the taxpayers of the province because borrowing money would result in taxation from the lender. It is suggested that this exception be removed as it is likely to go against EEA rights. 4. The collection of houses, vacation homes, and other facilities On January 1, 2017, there were changes to the law on restaurants, resting places, and entertainment. An individual was authorized to operate at home and rent out his legal home or one other estate on a businessman's registration. The law requires that the total number of days spent in both holdings together should be over 90 days per calendar year or the combined income of the property should be no more than the sum of the sum required in the terms of a value tax, i.e. Two million. K. every year. In the tax sector, it has been considered as a matter of when the income of a person's housing form is considered to be a job failure or an independent operation taxed like the other income of an individual's business, or when the income of such sales is defined as capital gains for individuals outside the business. A clear distinction will be made between tax treatments based on the following: a) tenaciously rented to permanent landlords, b) Homemaking, as law on restaurants, lodgings, and entertainment, c) other tenets on job housing or independent activities. If there are permanent depositors in an apartment building and the special property of the owner of an apartment house, there are no more than two people who are not employed or who are independent of business under the law on income taxes. The tax will then be taxed as non-employment capital gains. Homemaking income, as defined in the restaurants, accommodations and entertainment laws, is being carried today by the events of 20% of capital taxes, i.e. the income of a non-employment development, or the income of an individual's income from a job or from an independent profession. It is clearly stated that if a person has been allowed to do homework according to the law of a businessman and otherwise meet the requirements for homemaking, he/she will not be considered for employment or independent activity. As a result, the change makes it clear that domestic income is considered to be a capital investment of individuals outside the sector and carries 20% of the capital taxes, with no rent-offs. If a hired person living in an apartment house is not considered to be a permanent landlord or a retailer, the rent should be classified as a standard employment failure and its tax. 5. Exceptional and reimbursement of GPA on the basis of international contracts, etc. Iceland has committed itself on the basis of various international contracts and two-way contracts to provide tax evasion and abduction from transport costs and indirect taxes. In addition, Iceland has committed itself to providing the non-party and civil forces of such factors as the equivalent of its terms. After the departure of the defense team at the Cheflavour Airport, the law was changed, and the warrant was removed. It is suggested that international organisations and other partner members move to the country stocks on the basis of international contracts or the events of the two-sided contract made by Iceland should be free of taxes and import costs. It is then recommended that foreign forces and their civilian sectors be excluded from paying taxes and import expenditures. At the same time, it is accepted that there is no legal authority to repay taxes and pay due to these parties'purchase of goods and services on the land. 6th Immune response to incorrect or misleading information on import or failure of information administration. Unless otherwise stated, guilt against customs laws is bound to the fact that they have been committed deliberately or unintentionally. In violation of Article 172. par. However, toll laws dealing with penalties and punishments due to misjudgment or misleading information do not involve punishment unless it has been committed deliberately or to a minimum of impunity. Therefore, more strict requirements are required in the case of violations against the above toll law than in the general toll law violations. Tolla's experience has shown that it is almost impossible to demonstrate the determination or gross inadequacy of a wrongdoer. In a number of cases, perceived offenders have been acquitted, despite being informed and even acknowledged that correct information has not been provided. 7. Determination of the law to the toll law due to limitation of currency emissions. March 12th. gave Iceland's Secret Bank new rules on currency. The ban on customs in registration of commercial prices in Icelandic dollars is thus meaningless. 8. Gringo trucks. The pay of pelvic cars will be coordinated with an estimated 13%. In 2010 tax treatment of pelvic cars was changed, however, the result has been somewhat dramatic. Thus, by the way, vehicles have been transferred either 0%, 13%, or 65% per product charge, depending on how they look during import. In view of the results of two administrations made by the head tax authorities, the tax authorities need to provide a careful global assessment of the import equipment of such vehicles. The estimate is closer to an enemy, contrary to the opinion of a simple tax service. 9. Correction of an Annex XIX on a processing bill. Finally, the Annex XIX is provided with a post-final law. Because of mistakes, several toll numbers were lost that were to be explained in the annex and were not found to be high enough in several cases. A respectable president. The bill's proposals are of a wide range of ways and will not have a meaningful effect on the survival of a government fund combined will be the law of the bill. However, the impact of individual suggestions is somewhat different and is discussed in a report. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u55	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize various laws on taxes, customs, and fees. I'd like to have some information about the bill. The first is why no expense assessment follows the bill, which I always feel is a great sin when changing the bill for the money of the state. I'd like to know why we're missing the bill. So I would like to hear from the highest. Secretary of finance. One of the main elements of the bill is that it is submitted here to the release and reimburse valuable taxes and other taxes and pay on the basis of international contracts, two-sided contracts, or a special law there. As far as I'm concerned, it's at least that. in three places in the bill; a change in hosting tax law; a change in the law on charge of alcohol and tobacco; and a change in the law of values taxation; a change in the import of foreign forces and civil sectors; including Atlantic alliances; cooperation in the interests of peace; U.S. Army and other parties; also in the host tax pools; and reimbursement of tobacco. Because of the changes we see in international politics, and the experts in that area have just discussed and written that the focus of the military exercises of the Atlantic Community will move to the North Atlantic Ocean, and although there is no information coming from the Ministry of State there, it is expected that here will be more extensive military exercise, more will come here to stay. I wondered about these exercises why it is, because this bill is also. Compiled in cooperation with the State Department. I would like to know and get an explanation from the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance on the factors of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. The answer to the first question about the lack of cost estimate is that the bill is estimated to have virtually no significant expense changes for the state's funds. In fact, it's cost-employment, that there's negligible change in income and payment of state funds in these changes. Though relatively small, most of them are technical and do not assume that they contain substantial financial expenses. For the second question, regarding the change on the basis of international agreements, it may be primarily to point to contracts where we are expected to meet our international commitments. An example of this is that there has been a team for international practice, e.g. In flight and other, they have been here for a short time and only temporarily so these changes are being made in line with the international commitment of Icelanders. In the bill, no more people are expected to be here or less. Rather, this change is being made only according to the commitment we have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u57	A respectable president. Despite the changes in the bill, I still would have liked to see some sort of cost estimate on it. I believe that's always good for us when we evaluate bills to be about taxes, tolls, and fees. Regarding the latter, I would like to hear an explanation from the highest level. Secretary of finance. Since we do not yet have to fulfill our international commitments or have anything new to do with our international commitments, we make up the changes that have to do with the basis of international agreements and two - side agreements, including them. On account of the international forces and civil divisions of the Atlantic Community, or are the factors changed? That is why I would like to receive a clearer answer from the highest level. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u58	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator said that it is a good practice to have an expense estimate and to tell them that the cost is no or negligible if that is the case. I think this is a tip I'll try to take into account the bills I offer. As for the other thing, I have to admit that I don't know exactly how it's actually been implemented. It may not be as if a civilian team has been here every day, but I assume that it has been suggested that we do not support negotiations that we have signed. That's it. That's it. While the U.S. military forces were here until 2006, this was probably not necessary, but it was legally suspended so that no law of that kind has ever been set down in Icelandic law since then. That's how I understand the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u59	Mr. President. I'm going to do something very similar. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfjörðurdóttir on questions about cost-food, not just because they need their expense arms, but because there is a contradiction in section 7 on the assessment of effects. It says, by permission of the President: The changes suggested in the bill will not have a meaningful effect on the survival of the state fund. But later, it is expected to be 20◯350 million. K. We'll reimburse the tax on previous pressures, which I find rather wide distances. It could be viewed as a factor that if the gap amounted to 2,935 million, or 200,350 million, would be within the normal range, a very wide range. Then there are some other plans, including About 40 million because of reimbursement on credit. Together, I see this goes up to 7 bucks. of 10 you. who gathers into government funds every year. I think it's a little high. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: What percentage of the revenues that come into the state's budget must be recorded in the bill so that the bill is considered to have a significant impact on the survival of the Kingdom Fund? I ask because I want to have those numbers so that in the future I can understand how the highest is. Secretary of finance sees all the changes that might affect the survival of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u60	Mr. President. I suppose there's a why here. A senator with a lead to the trucks. [[Up front.]] Yes, but this is the law of the trucks, I think. In answer to this, a decision has been made on these cars, so the pay is not due to the law, but because of the decision of the head tax committee, who believes that the regulations as to which they have been interpreted by the tax authorities are so vague that those who have been brought in or buying them are overdue. Thus, this is not the result of the bill. Rather, it is the bill to respond to the decisions that have been lost. I agree that laws cannot be so vague that those who are supposed to perform them must make a random estimate. I agree with that. A senator said that it would be very interesting to know what this figure means to be very serious. Yesterday we were defined as "a drop of water in the sea, " so there are certain terms that are explained in the chamber and that will be fun to have it later in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u61	Mr. President. I thank you for these answers, but I would like to know the highest question. The secretary of the budget considers the proportion to be. Is that 7 out of 10 you?? Is that 1 of 1 you?? That's 2 of 1 you.? Is it 3 of 1 you?? Is that maybe 5 percent? It is very important for us that such cases need to be addressed to work on the Economic and Business Committee that we know what is really significant and what is negligible in the highest context. Secretary of finance. I can't really have the question any clearer. In view of the lack of analysis of the impact of the bill in normal table format, we must be able to imagine whether this will possibly be in the context of another prime network that could affect the income charge of the state funds, which would combined have a significant or negligible impact on the number. Is that 7 out of 10 you? or any other number?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u62	Mr. President. I see why. A senator makes it unclear to him if he is spoken of as being significant or insignificant, and I agree with him. I try to avoid such references myself as I possibly can, precisely because what alone seems to be significant to others is not historic, what seems to be significant to others, etc. This kind of language is not suitable for legal bills or reports. I'll take a hint. A senator very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u63	Mr. President. Even though I've gone out into this one section of the bill, we've heard it from the highest level. There are other factors involved in the bill that are worth discussing. Some of these were found to be true. paritaprevir Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjörðurdóttir. But perhaps the first thing is that there is an exception to credit taxes and a stay-off for various people, which I don't know to be any real reason, except that it's in the contracts, that they get an exception, including accessation. U.S. Army. The wording may also be quite striking. Foreign force and U.S. military forces are spoken of. Why do these two seem different? In some sense, we're talking about an army of some kind that has something to do with our cooperation in the Atlantic Union and perhaps other civil divisions, but I think the wording is very dangerous. Also dangerous is the fact that we are the heads of such terms, on the other hand, on the merit tax and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the occasions, on the basis of the financial expenses and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, that we're actually paying with these troops when they live here. I remember a single case when I was traveling through Leifs Station and saw there a regiment of Slovenian military forces sleeping under a platform. I don't know exactly what to do with her, but I don't think she's paid a bedside fee. So you just keep on doing this, it says in the report on the main item of the bill, that there are no changes in subject to a few corrections on income taxes and insurance laws. On closer consideration, I feel that this is somehow not completely clear enough as to what is not being dealt with in a material way. The review may be clearer, and I hope that this will be recorded by the Committee. It is one thing and another, but in reality it may be the main thing regarding the international institutions involved. And, yes, that's where we're talking about, excuse the slow walk, Mr. President, I was actually marking this here on the bill in a hurry. However, in the bill's report, section 4.6, the following is discussed by the president's permission: In a number of cases, the supposed wrongdoers have been declared guilty of violations against Article 172. To customs despite being informed and even recognized that correct information has not been provided. It is recommended that the warrant be extended and spoken of outright indiscretion rather than gross indiscretions. I wondered if extending penalties is necessarily the approach that is best taken. Punishment has not necessarily brought us into a good society, and it may be possible to approach in another way. I wondered, " Is this not a place where we could look at fines or things like that rather than have some sort of punishment? ' It is also of interest in section 4.9 that the processing fee is spoken of. Now I was on top of a top economic and business committee. The secretary of finance was chairman of this situation when we went through it. The disaster that took place there may have been part of the occasion for us to get involved in making the mistakes discussed here. I don't know exactly which toll number it is, but it's clear that this is a good reminder that we need to work very well when we're working things and maybe go a little slower than making mistakes like that, as we've repeatedly come up in our time. I'm not going to have any more words about this except to point out again that it is very important that we have a real understanding of what constitutes a significant impact on the survival of a trust fund and what does not seem to be a significant effect. Now I asked the highest. On two occasions a minister of finance considered what he thought to be a significant effect on the survival of a treasure, the exact number of them. This bill speaks of up to 7 K. per 10,000 K. who enter into the state funds, or 0.07% of the total wealth. I think there's a good reason why we start seeing a much more careful diagnosis of the cost of the budget than we're doing here. It's a complicated bill. Not necessarily because of an individual subject but because it includes so much different factors. It would be interesting to understand why this could not be any separate basics that would take on special components individually. In view of the structure of religion, this may be a reminder of a financial accord. It may not be possible to take such things for springtime. But will it be so that in the coming years, we will see that there will be a number of long tapeworms with all the other and all of these regulations, from rules of law to punishment? That's a question I hope we get the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u64	The senator's conduct is pardoned by the president's adviser.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u65	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the lack of money and insurance on the deck. 516, No. 386. The bill includes the implementation of EU Regulation No. 236/2012, on the lack of money and insurance, in Icelandic rights. Therefore, the main focus of the bill is the legislation of the Regulation and of the necessary rules, such as the monitoring of the regulations of the bill, the reporting of the Rapporteurs for information, the application of the decision of the EFTA and EFTA and the EFTA legislation, the judicial hearings to the police and the licences of Ministers to implement regulations. Neglect is the sale of financial gain when the product is not owned by a seller when it makes a deal for sale and usually borrows the financial gain. The investor's hopes are that while the funds are not in his possession, he loses his value and gains the value of buying it back at a lower price than he sold and giving it to those who lent it. But borrowing money is not necessary for the lack of money. For example, there are other steps you can take without making a contract to borrow the financial gain. It's called a unprotected or naked dissociative. Thus, more than one investor can build a lack of money on the same level. This presents a significant problem for the market as a whole. The creations of the lack of sale protocols include Based on anxiety over the fact that the lack of money can lead to an increase in business prospects. Furthermore, the lack of money has been considered to be a potential factor in the growth of the stocks on the market, thus leading to an instability and an increased system risk. The main component of the lack of sale may be summed up to the following 11 components: 1st A credit card sale must be protected, either by borrowing it or by spending it in another way. An undefeated stockholder or government debt supply will thus be banned. 2. It will only be permitted to negotiate business with insurance insurance on the state if the business does not lead to an unfavourable position in the state's insurance policy. 3. A middle-of-the-art strategist which provides the stock-based status service should ensure delivery methods are not readily available. At the same time, the seller shall pay the favour of the day until the resolution is done. The person to be provided with the institutional agency sets himself up in business and becomes a buyer to each seller and seller to each buyer. This is to limit a substantial risk for the business involved. The status facility refers to the establishment of positions, including calculation of a clean commitment, and to ensure that financial gain, cash, or both are available to ensure the risk binding resulting from these sites. 4. Investigating of the lack of stocks to the FEEC, the situation should be made up of or below the relevant reporting thresholds. The reporting thresholds are 0.2% of the amount given to the relevant enterprise and each 0.1% higher. 5. Public lack of funds should be made when the situation reaches or falls below the relevant publication boundaries. The display boundary is 0.5% of the given share amount and each 0.1% higher. The UN shall publish larger stocks on their website. 6th The state-of-the-art lack in terms of the FEC should be made when the situation reaches or falls below the relevant reporting thresholds established by the European Commission at any given time. 7. The UN shall quarterly provide information in the form of a summary on the grounds of absolute lack in stocks and federal debt, and on unsurpassed state insurance posts. 8. Under certain circumstances and that specific conditions have been met, the Commission may demand that persons with financial inadequacies or a financial group be informed or published publicly about the positions if they cover or go down to the reporting thresholds established by the FEC. 9. Under certain circumstances and that specific conditions are met, the SEC may require that those involved in borrowing certain financial gains or categories of financing be informed of any significant changes in expenses taken for such loans. 10. Under certain circumstances and conditions filled, UNEP can ban or conditions for dissociative or comparable business practices. The same is true when it comes to business with insurance insurance on the state. 11th Under certain circumstances and specific conditions, the EFTA System can directly oppose stakeholders on the market, on the one hand, by requiring a person with a clean standing in relation to a certain financial gain or category, to inform the UNECE there or to publish the information publicly, by banning or setting a requirement for retail or comparable business exchanges. The impact on the Icelandic financial market of the bill is considered to be negligible compared with today's situation. In the future, the bill will have an impact on organisations and the general public will have far better information on the lack of sales and the potential development of risks in the financial system. At that time, the Rapporteurs will have better resources than today in order to address the risks and stop business. The F.O. takes half to one position for monitoring, but in another, it is not expected that the bill will carry additional costs. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after this discussion has ended and then to 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u66	Mr. President. I appreciate the presentation on this bill. I agree with many of its goals. In view of the past centuries in which dissociatives have repeatedly led to a very bad market situation in the world - and to mention, if I don't remember, the deficiency ban set on the Netherlands 1610 is very important that we have a very good job to do in the United States of 1722. What I'm interested in is increasing transparency with this bill. They are trying to ensure that certain information is available. But as shown in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance is very limited in the timing of the lack of contracts to be reported to the FDA. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether all these criteria are needed. Is it not better to have it so that every time a person takes a stand on the market, in any sense, he is obliged to report it? Now, some might say that there would be too much stress in the SEC. But I believe we have a so-called Internet today where we can create a very fast, simple, and automatic registration system to keep the information network connected. Would that not be more likely to lead to good than having some limit to which we know that people will accumulate just below the definition?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u67	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator's opinion that the maximum market transparency is desirable. However, this is an introduction from the European Union. These boundaries are set, and we take them completely into the existing bill. I agree with you, too. There is, however, much more to be done by a senator. At relatively low limits, fermentation has become reported and as a result, it will be much more difficult for parties to hide possession or future holdings with treaties for the lack of goods. I agree that this is a change to improve. But the explanation that this is done in this way is what I'm saying, that we're filming a European model.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u68	Mr. President. I'm aware that this is a European induction process. For each European Union's legislation to be transferred, the minimum is being created. It is, of course, seeking to achieve what is called the maximum harmonisation between Europe and the EEA including. But the maximum harmonization has never meant that countries can go no further in certain cases while they are together, than in the main objectives of the directive. I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether there is a reason for us to go a little further, show us a good example for other European countries, and provide a better registration system that is faster and more efficient, and even less expensive, in the implementation of the Economic Commission, and thus for the state funds, by extending the notifications to all, removing these conditions, and replacing them with a set of electronic announcements that would be put in place so that it would be put into harmony with the requirements of Europe's making as much as possible. Is this not the right way ahead of waiting for the European Union to move on?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u69	Mr. President. Even if I agree with what you're saying. A senator on the importance of general growth in business, I think it is also good for us to see that our regulations are as much as any of us would like the European principle. Therefore, we have generally taken the lead in implementing these rules that all people like to apply there. This makes it easier to go from country to country and do business. That does not mean that I disagree. Senator. I think it's very important that we all be informed about who is a real owner or future stock owner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with and be glad that this is at last a legislation on the lack of money, which is aimed at increasing the transparency of certain financial initiatives and ensuring that financial agencies have adequate authority to address system risks or threats to financial status. This bill is based on both the introduction to the EEA regulations and the work of a committee founded by the current financial and economic secretary 2 January 2014. The bill places a great deal of responsibilities on the UNECE. I would have liked to hear from the highest. The secretary of finance for this, because somewhere in the bill it is assumed that these obligations to the SEC will require half to one new status. I thought about it as an amateur and a spokesman for the financial market and also in the light of the comments the World Bank has established on the state of the SEC, that the observation is not strong enough, whether the highest level. The secretary of finance shares my opinion or whether he has any other opinion that the very reason for this bill is that both because of the increased projects involved in this one bill and also because of the comments that have been made by the AGS.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u71	Mr. President. I'll be happy to admit that I've been thinking a lot about the FDA and, as a matter of fact, other surveillance agencies here in the country lately. I think it is extremely important that they are strong enough to fulfill their role. Generally speaking, they are assigned to care for various assignments. Many of them are fixed, as it were, relatively simple though technically complex, i.e. Simple in the sense that they come up over and over again. I suppose this project is one of them, and due to the scope of lack of property in the country that recently, it is not a very important addition to the work of the FESI just that very much, as it is assessed to allow it to be about half to one rank. But I've already spoken of the fact that the SEC should be strong, it should be independent. That's a lot of responsibility. It must never be repeated as if a person were shielding himself before a crash, that the SEC had not had the ability to carry out its role, and yet to prevent the potential crash from occurring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u72	A respectable president. I'm glad we're at the highest. The secretary of finance disputes the view that the SEC should be strong and responsible. I now state to the General's public talk that I am excited to see if I have the highest priority. To face the criticism that has been observed, a minister of finance intends to do something about it. on the part of the World Bank of Pays somewhat overemphasized, it is quite candid criticism that has been presented there. I don't know if half to one status value is enough and enough to be done just because of the projects that appear in one bill. I would think there are many ways in which I would need to be strengthened. This here is a natural way to do that, because there are limited tasks and they are better explained in the bill. However, I would like to ask about one aspect of the bill that I hope to the highest. The minister of finance has answers, and that is about the government fines. I'd like to check on the 9th item. Gr., if it's the highest. Secretary of finance can tell me why these seven years were determined as to government fines and the sources of the SEC to lay down government fines, that they would fall after seven years. As we know, economic degradation usually takes longer in research than in other offenses. So I wondered why this exact number and this period were found out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u73	Madam President. I can see the reason for a question. Senator. True, there have been examples during the last days where we wondered why we cannot punish an alleged offense because it is too long since they were committed, although the wrongs have led to a very serious conclusion in the end and have been, apparently, deception against not just the spokesmen, some ordinary spokesmen, but rather the United States and all the public. I suppose the number seven applies in a general probationary rule as a valid. But I can totally agree that in the case of very serious fractures it should be based on a longer expiration date for the fractures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u74	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the termination of the law on the nurse's Pension Fund and the subsidence of the Pension Fund for employees of Iceland's Road Bank. In recent years the retirement rights of public employees and workers in a general labour market have been planned. By the legislation on the Change in LS, adopted at the General Assembly in December 2016, it was decided that the A-party and IRR work on the basis of a law on life insurance and the operation of pensions. This means that the law on A League of LS will basically be removed on June 1, 2017. At the same time, the fund will be changed for age-related rights practices and the 67-year-old pension age. As a result, in December 2004, age - related rights practices are being established by government officials, but the market adopted the age - related development of pension rights in December 2004. With these changes, the State has set out to simplify and reduce the amount of pensions with full or partial responsibilities. One factor in the simple and reduced pension fund is the proposal presented in this bill on the subsidence of the Nurses Pension Fund and the Bank of Human Resources. Here we can refer to the bill to legalize the loss of the law on the farm's Pension Fund for treatment at the General Assembly. The bill suggests that the Nurses' Penitentiary Act will be suspended on January 1, 2018, and the fund will be combined with the Bank of Pension Services from then on. At the same time, the bill suggests that Iceland's Bank of Remuneration will be laid down, but according to law No. 7/1987, about the establishment of a partner bank on Iceland's Elisar Bank, is responsible for all the financial commitments of the fund, and has the LSR administering pensions to funds since June 1, 2010. The focus of the bill is that the Pension Fund of Nurses and B Company NNR will be fully combined, but by then the greatest cooperation with the funds, that the property and commitments of funds will be in one common fund, that the rights of the Pension Fund of Nurses will be transferred to the B League of SIRRs and legal systems in terms of nurse rights, other than the time required to continue. This does not apply, however, to the membership of new remunerationpayers and the permission to pay in the Pension Fund of Nurses without regard to employment rates. What's further in the bill is that rights will be calculated as if they were in one fund all the time, that there will be shut down to the membership of new remuneration agreements of nurses and their rules so that there will be no more guarantees in the B-U.S., that any bank of Pension Fund for Nurses will lose rights, that the rights will be judged as if they had been paid as much as they had spent all the time, that the guarantees of other remunerations than the state's payments debt will be dropped and that the post-employment fees from all over Iceland will be laid. In many ways, the Pension Fund of Nurses and B Company LSR is very similar to their budgets and rights system built up in a comparable way. At that time, both funds will be shut to new financial institutions, and a number of paid funds and pensioners will develop in a similar way in the future. In addition, paying off the funds of the Pension Fund will continue to reduce the number of nurses at the B-REC. On the basis of insurance costs, the funds, the numbers of paid funds, and the number of pensioners will develop in a similar way in the future. In September 2016, 2,300 nurses were on the payroll. There, 91% of them paid tax to A, 8% paid for the Pension Fund of Nurses, and 1% paid otherwise. Active funds in the Nurses' Pension Fund last year were 265 and are rapidly decreasing. Together with the rights of the B-lR and the pension fund of nurses in one fund, there may be an increase in commitment due to the financial rights of both funds. According to an insurance mathematician's calculations, this is a negligible part of the funds commitments. Together, we need to consider the administration of the State's back responsibility for the welfare of nurses and the equal responsibilities of commitments. Accounting is equally responsible for all remunerations in the fund, but only on the state's budget on commitments to the R.R. Thus, the nurse's Pension Fund holds the payer responsible for the benefit of bankmates who have worked with them in accordance with earned rights. So when nurses' Pension Fund is emptied and they no longer have property to pay their pensions, paypayers take over the role of the fund in paying pensions. The budget is then responsible for the failure of some employee to live up to this commitment. If the money paid by other people is removed from the state's budget, they would still be responsible for commitments to pensions, no matter how responsible commitments would be made. Government funds are behind responsibility for the institutions that fall under the A-part of government funds. The institutions outside the A-part State Fund are many of them funded to some extent or financed by government funds in the past. It is uncertain whether the state funds have part of that commitment and if so much. The decline in commitment by the end of 2016 was 94 billion, of which one of the state funds was 91.5 billion. The bill is suggested to remove the responsibilities of other remunerationrs than the state funds for the commitments of the Pension Fund of Nurses to conform to the B Ward. By lifting back responsibility, the state's funds take on greater commitments because of their responsibilities than those that apply today to the fund. There are now many other parties who make commitments to 1.2 billion. The mode of action of these parties is uncertain, and in some cases, there is a disagreement as to whether the state funds are part of this commitment. There is also uncertainty about the future financial situation of these individuals. If the funds are not united, the responsibility must be considered, since the property of the pension fund of nurses, other than that which the government fund has paid for the fund, will be raised next year. When that happens, the payers will have to give their pensions to their former employees because of commitments. mist the financial situation of these remuneration workers increases uncertainty about the share of the state's funds in commitments because of responsibilities. If the B-investment of the State's backresponsibilities on commitments are adopted because of the commitments of the Pension Fund, this can affect the commitments of state funds beyond what might otherwise have been. Together, it is estimated that the cost will be about 37 million. K. every year. For example, the cost of monotonous working together may be about 5 576 billion. K. and comes to the deduction from the savings of the first year. The U.S. Bank of Desserts is saying that he has no property. Over the years, government funds have paid off all the income and the cost of his business. The debt of the fund at 5.4 billion dollars. will thus continue with the commitments of the money of the Kingdom as it has been. I propose, Madam President, that the case be referred to a second. and the Economic and Business Committee at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u75	Madam President. Now we've been talking about another bill that's about laying down, not laying down, but removing the law on the farm's Pension Fund. A question was presented in the management of this bill on the grounds of special regulations that were in the law that could not be conformed to the general law on pension. So I would like to use this opportunity to ask because it is not completely clear in the bill or in the report: Are there special rules in the law being dismissed, special rules for some possible rights that might not be in the general law of pension that will likely take over when the law falls? That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u76	Madam President. Yes, there are small rules that are different, i.e. The rules on rights processing. However, they do not have much effect in view of the lack of control since 1997, I think. As noted, financial institutions are rapidly decreasing each year, not because they are falling apart, but because they are moving to retirement and thus are no longer active in legitimate work. This bill, on the other hand, is being cooperated with the representatives of treasuremates. That is the case with them. It is therefore believed that the small difference there will have no significant effect on financial rights only for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u77	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. It's interesting that such a special policy is, but that may have been the nature of the pension system as it was here in the past. But I cut by the word "smooth" to the highest degree. Secretary of finance. Now I don't have a complete understanding of what's minor today. Are we talking about a few cents, a thousand dollars, or are we talking about something that could make any million possible funds? I'm asking that this may not be the least of the discussions we've had in the past on the definition of such terms. Although it is of course good that this work is done in cooperation with the stakeholders in the bank's pension funds, it is very important that we know the extent of the rights that could occur through the deportation of these laws so as no doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u78	Madam President. It is my understanding that it is not an issue of rights but that the associates it reaches will always enjoy the better rights on either side of it. That's why I don't think there was any disagreement on the formation of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u79	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the insurance policy. The bill suggests that the Icelandic legislation on the insurance insurance markets of 2009/138/EC, the so-called Solvency II Directive, will be implemented. The directive has been adopted in the EEA Convention, and the main part of the directive was registered in this country by law No. 100/2016 approved at the General Assembly in September. years. The primary objective of the bill is to protect the interest of insurance companies and gamblers. If the bill becomes a law, there will be detailed laws on the environment of the DNS. The bill makes it possible to get a better picture of the financial status of the insurance market, where the main focus will be placed on financial monitoring. The main elements of the bill are as follows: First, it is defined as when to determine a health insurance complex that will depend on the bill. Second, there is a set of insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance spending regulations, which are assessed for the entire kit. The GD should be evaluated annually and may be done using a standard or so-called preferred method. Then there are detailed regulations on the surveillance of the SEC, as assessed by the exchange of insurance insurance insurance. Third, there are measures to monitor the integration of risks within the insurance market, the business within the kit, and its management systems. Fourth, there is a special section on the surveillance of insurance companies operating in more than one Member State. One monitoring authority in the Member States shall then be the monitoring authority of the kit. If the F.O.P. is the administrative authority, it will coordinate surveillance measures and have the authority to make decisions in certain cases. In addition, all of the surveillance agencies that monitor the insurance insurance companies involved in an insurance policy group cooperate with the government's surveillance department. The activities of the monitoring authorities are important in order to maintain harmonisation in the monitoring and decision-making of the European Economic Area. Then there is the obligation to exchange information between the administrative authorities. If there is a difference between the government's monitoring authorities, there can be a direct consultation between the European Life Insurance and Biodiversity Monitoring Agency (EIPA) and/or the EFTA (EU) monitoring centre depending on the occurrence of events. The bill thus creates a legal environment for the UNEP work environment when there are many other countries where insurance companies work. Fifth, it consists of regulations in the bill that a public report on the insurance and financial status of the disaster community should be published along with a report on its structure, control and control. 6th and final, there is a law on insurance insurance policy that also operates in countries outside the European Economic Area. In such cases, a decision must be made whether monitoring is equivalent to monitoring in Member States if a policy of monitoring is to be undertaken. The impact of the bill on insurance companies and insurance markets in this country should not be much. Already, insurance companies are working under the insurance laws and are having insurance insurance companies in insurance companies playing on that. Every insurance company in this country is part of an insurance policy society, i.e. As a result, the common insurance companies have a life insurance company, and the bill is important, even though these insurance companies are simple. This bill is an addition to the legal environment of the disaster market, i.e. Law No. 100/2016, about insurance, and the bill is based on the same ideologies as the law. Any insurance policy laws apply to any insurance company that is part of an insurance policy. Finally, it is worth pointing out that the United States has laid down the directive 2009/138/EU by January 1, 2016, and since EFTA has made comments on the fact that the directive has not been introduced into Icelandic rights, I believe it is important that the bill succeeds at this council. A respectable president. The main impact of the bill, if by law, is to strengthen the legal environment of an insurance market where there will be a better law for the operation of national insurance companies. As a result of the bill, there will be a better picture of the financial benefits of an insurance policy at UNEP. Thus, the bill is designed to build more confidence in financial markets. I think it's important that the bill succeeds in strengthening legal and financial management in this country. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u80	A respectable president. This is a bill that is new to the Icelandic legislation, for so far there have not been any specific laws on insurance markets. It's fine if the law is being strengthened by insurance companies and their activities. Once again, however, there is an increase in the number and number of projects assigned to the FEC. So I'd like to know, and this may be a routine question to me earlier on a different bill that exactly puts more duties on the feds, how to get a top. The secretary of the budget provides for the development of both independence and the financial resources of the FMEP to care for the work being found in this bill as well as in the bill we were discussing earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u81	Madam President. In answer to this, the SEC is funded by the costs of a follow-up party. Each year a proposal is made by the Commission's Commission and these members, which are subject to the Council and to the Constitution and to the Constitution, I believe, must be, in fact, the General Parliament agree to accept all the budgets and all the laws laid down. I do not know, however, that there are cases where such a suggestion has not been agreed. I'm expecting there to be a continuation. However, I have said and considered it very important, in this case and in the case of other supervision, that they themselves, their activities, are regularly taken out, e.g. of international sources, so we know that it is comparable to what happens elsewhere. I've also, like a whale. A senator, notices the International Cash Fund's criticism of the SEC. I think it's necessary to react with a conversation with the F.A. because it's possible it's being critical of factors that don't turn directly to financing, but the point of financing is the point facing the Council. I believe up till now, the Allied did a pretty good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u82	Madam President. I'm glad to hear that. The secretary of finance has observed and read the financial criticism of the World Bank on the SEC and its independence and scope when it comes to monitoring. The reason I specifically mentioned funding for monitoring is because it has been one of the critical points of the International Cash Fund, but I also ask because it's in the Ministry of Ministers. Financial Ministers are current ministers and former senators who spoke extensively about reducing financial resources to SEC during the last term. So it's nice to get an explanation of this, because I heard the highest. The secretary of finance is trying to suggest that he would want to consider in some way whether it would be necessary to enter the scope of the observation and, as I noted, to consider two of the highest standards. The secretary of finance was offering only today, which includes the need for the SEC to care for more responsibilities and to handle more work. I would like to know more about your ideas. Secretary of finance on how to strengthen the SEC. In what way does he see it? Would it increase the effectiveness of monitoring in terms of parts such as the financial system, where it is so urgent that the monitoring is working, not necessarily larger and more extensive, but that it works?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u83	Madam President. I agree that there is no reason for being under surveillance for the sake of the program. It is of great importance that the SEC has effective surveillance like any other government agency. I think it's important that we participate in international cooperation, which I know the SEC does at least that. To a large extent, but perhaps not as worthwhile. It certainly bothers me that international institutions make comments to the UN in general. I think we're all going to be together, whether it's in the UN or in the financial department, as much as it is involved, and then the General, to ensure that the quality of our surveillance is they that we can trust that, as possible, the SEC can carry out its role, which is to promote an honest, stable financial environment. I will not leave mine in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u84	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize a credit rating company. The bill introduces the European Parliament's Regulation and Council No. 1060/2009, on credit tools, as well as subsequent changes and adaptations negotiated with the EU due to the uptake of the EU contract. The objective of the bill is to improve the quality of credit ratings, thereby reduce system risk and promote financial stability. The aim is also to ensure strong and coordinated monitoring of loan-making tools within the European Economic Area. Credit companies offer services to evaluate the credit rates of companies and countries and to loan risks on investments in various types of financial failures. The core of credit - valuation companies is to provide objective assessments of borrowers to assist investors in choosing their investments. In the implementation of credit tools, credit - valuations companies use a particular methodology and give credit rates to companies or countries called creditors. In the United States, there are no overall laws on the performance of credit policy companies or credit ratings. In that case, the operation is not mandatory or defined as a surveillance provider. The legalization of these laws is a possibility of a change. In Iceland, credit companies will have to apply for registration as such to the EFTA monitoring centre as well as what they will be doing under the supervision of the Agency. In turn, such registration will apply within the entire European economy. There will be loan companies, investment companies, insurance companies, reimbursers, property control companies, investment companies, special funds and centralists not to use credit ratings for monitoring purposes, e.g. to calculate your own spending requirements, unless such a credit rating is made out of a registered credit balance company. The building up of the bill is on the way that, first of all, the European Commission Regulation on loan-making companies are granted legal values, along with the adaptations resulting from decisions made by the joint EEA committee. Second, it is recommended that the EFTA and the FEC be monitored for the credit balance companies by maintaining national stability. Third, there is a set of regulations that the EFTA Institute of Observation has access to public research and field research with credit tools in Iceland, which require the authority of the judges unless there is a consent. Fourth, there are information guidelines for the European monitoring institutions and institutions within the European Economic Area. Fifthly, the decision-to-be in charge of the EFTA Management Board is required here on the land and in the case of the EFTA Court. A respectable president. The main impact of the bill, if by law, is to create a more reliable framework for credit-making companies and monitoring them, to reduce system risk and to promote financial stability. It also helps to increase the quality of credit ratings and ensure that such blind evaluations are not relied upon when it comes to investments. I believe it is important that this bill succeeds in strengthening financial markets in this country and in securing Iceland's contract commitments under the EEA Convention. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u85	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill is on. I'll agree with the highest. Financial and economic secretary to the aim of these legislation, to improve the quality of credit tools and thereby reduce the risk and contribute to further financial stability, is extremely important. In the international financial crisis, credit - making firms played a major role. Their assessment was based on what could be published indefinitely for bond reviews and other such items. There were many who asked themselves about the quality of this credit balance, and it was quite clear that credit - valuation companies played a very important role in the international financial crisis that we are still dealing with in some way. I'm delighted that this bill has been given because, of course, it aims to improve the quality of the credit ratings and to promote and coordinate their monitoring. For the main elements of the bill, it is likely that this applies to one Icelandic credit balance company that needs to be monitored by the EFTA monitoring agency. I just want to ask the financial and economic secretary what cost it would pay for the company to implement this. I didn't see it quite quickly, this bill is very positive, but I might want to ask about it. In fact, I think all the transparent and more rulework around the credit balance companies is good. That was the main thing I wanted to share with you in this seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u86	The president understood that. A senator would be giving a talk. Was it an answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u87	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u88	Mr President is sorry for that, okay? Senator, I saw one finger, not two. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u89	Madam President. I'm sorry to say that I don't have that number in a quick room, but the numbers vary according to the size of the companies. Of course, they will be presented to you. The Economic and Business Committee, when the bill will be taken until treatment. But it's as if I feel it could have been 3 billion degrees. K. In a year, but I dare not say so at this moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. It's clear that this isn't the main part of the bill, but I just wanted to ask how it was. There's another thing I'd also like to state in this, and maybe mention, that what has, of course, been going on as well with the international loan companies is that there has been a certain improvement in their activities. One of the things I believe were of great value is that for now they're going to publish in advance when they're going to give the same state a stand. I think it has increased stability on this market, so markets can better predict when such an estimate is expected. I think it's a good thing. I'd also like to ask a financial and economic minister if he thinks there may be something to increase the monitoring of these companies in addition to this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u91	Madam President. Presumably, monitoring of credit-making companies is not under the SEC but, rather, under the financial supervision of any other country where they are located. However, I can totally agree with the concerns involved in the fact that there were some sources of credit to the highest quality assessment for failure, and it became apparent that they went bankrupt in almost one blow. So there is good reason to monitor them. There is also reason to remember that the general setting has been changed, so we have more strict rules. The law of money itself has made more rigid demands than ever before. So I think it's less likely that we'll see mistakes of the magnitude that happened last time. But the risk is always some, and surely it is a reason to be aware of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u92	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in the law of Icelandic student loans that are in the interest of a loan degree. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture in consultation with the Icelandic Board of Education. The subject of the bill is that a report published by the State Review Board, the Icelandic Scholars' Credit Fund, and the development of loans from June 2011 showed that loans due to travel studies are not only against 1st and 2 g's. Law on the Credit Fund of Icelandic students, No. 21/1992, however, there is also a break-in rule against high school students for the student's test. The bill suggests that there will be improvements under the loan loan loan to students because of going to the country. The study and acceptance of the auxiliary study of the Icelandic loan Fund gives a certain group of people greater opportunities for further education. One of the main views behind auxiliary schooling is that the combination of students in that study is different from those in a standard high school class. Students are older, and most often they come to study professionally. In addition to the professional experience of a student, a student develops a bridge to study at that university. Such students are usually active in a job market and likely to have financial commitments. Therefore, it can be concluded that the qualified students find it difficult to quit work and study that would not be helpful. Thus, students starting school need to have completed a significant high school education or a physical evaluation that totals to meet the minimum oral criteria at the university. Substitution is not the value of study for a student's test, so it usually does not give you the right to access to schools other than those who organize the study. It has been one of the primary roles of the Icelandic loan fund to match the availability and potential for higher education regardless of the economy, and loyalty is improved for the benefit of study support to go to school, in line with the role of the fund. As has been the case since the divorce of foreign universities, so the credit rates in Iceland are made to meet the need for land. Because of an exception to a university education in high school, it was decided not to go beyond the need and to lend it only to pursue university education in this country. Those students who pursue university education abroad are expected to be given the opportunity to complete studies based on the current project. As a result of an up-to-date review of the Icelandic loan fund, where a future loan program for the loan of the requisite will be decided, it is appropriate to put a correction under the loan of the country's loan courses, for which a state reexamination has shown that there is a need to be improved and that they will not lend on leave unless direct recommendations from the authorities have been made. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u93	A respectable president. I'm glad to finally show up here the government's actions to let senior students into high school, which was closed by a decision without a discussion with financial deliberation in the time of the last government. Similarly, I do not rejoice that the way that is chosen is by opening credits to that group so that they can attend high levels of private study. I would have felt that it was a more natural way, more reasonable and just, to ensure everyone's access to study simply opening the public high school system by financing it to cover these students. An article with the bill says that it is difficult to predict the evolution of loans to attend. During the last year of study, 240 students had gone to the loan fund for loans. What are the advantages of funding the public system so that they can receive many? I'd think there was no huge expense, especially when we looked at it that by reducing the debt rate of these people, I don't say in old age, after 25 years of age, they're going to go for further education, and they often have no choice but to look to the private schools that are being offered here, to the government, to a shooting at this group, to permit the loan to help these people to go into debt so that private schools can feed their pockets. I would like to ask the secretary if the Ministry had not considered focusing more on the public high school system, whether our energy and money would be better spent there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u94	A respectable president. As the bill shows, the reason why the loan fund has improved without any repair, is that. to finance and lend loans to university education for these people. There is no new development in this, but the decision to take care of the President's proposal that the loan can be lent and that it must be done on the basis of law and that it has been improved. This has nothing to do with the 2008 Regulation, which was revised in 2012, in terms of high school intake requirements in Iceland. So it has nothing to do with anything. Whatever it is. As to whether this is the group that has not been saved in the higher schools of the country, the bill is not involved and the discussion, sometimes referred to as the 25 - year rule in the discussion, is not really to be found here. This is the subject of another discussion because the only separation where there is a 25 - year limit in the State's Regulation from 2012 is the letter of the 25 - year reference.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u95	A respectable president. No new ones, the Minister says. The new issue is from the 2011 issue of Government Review as well as from the fact that the oral policy in high school was set aside by 2014 that the current right management decided to stop paying for these students. I know the Minister's uncomfortable calling this 25-year rule, saying that there's nothing in the books of the state called the 25-year-old rule. Call it anything we want. In fact, high school has been wiped out by people over 25 years of age. That's because of the decision to make a budget in the past government's highest budget. Minister sat in. It is the new mass, and that is why this bill speaks into reality that became 2014 on the budget of that year. Naturally, though the minister may feel uncomfortable, we link these two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u96	A respectable president. I've never known it at all. A minister would not dare come to his second answer, even if it was a claim. This may prove to be the ultimate. A minister agrees with the claims made in the matter. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I agree with the main objectives of the bill, like the highest. Ministers tore them up earlier. According to a 2011 State Review report, this is actually a violation of certain rules of equality as well as a law on LIN. But what doesn't show up in all this report is how this will affect the student loans that take those loans. As we can see here, a total loan is given 2015-2016 u. An average of 1 million per person, based on the figures here, of course. Thus, we can see that some individuals have more and that some have considerably less. We can see that the full - time course of study courses for the winter of 2016-2017 at Keil ◯ University Bridge are 4,57,500 k. every year. It's quite a coin, and I'm asking how this will affect the loan shop of the individual. Will this not make it necessary for people to pay a considerable amount of longer from their student loans? Then the question is, Would it not be more economicly practical to make it possible for these people to attend the schools that are suitable for them in high school, but not as the situation is now with regard to the 25 - year rule at its highest level? The Minister of Education seems to agree to exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u97	A respectable president. I think there is good reason to take up this so - called 25 - year rule. [[Up front.]] It's a matter that men don't finish in short answers, it's just much bigger - a respectable president, you can get a sound to answer a inquiry. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u98	The president asks why. Senators keeping their voices in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u99	I can see it's quite sensitive to a beard. A senator, but I offer to have a special discussion with why. A senator of this so - called 25 - year rule. There are no restrictions on the intake of this age group in high school today, so I'll ask why. A senator earlier. The recommendations given in connection with budgets for 2015 were primarily related to book studies. There has never been a requirement, and the Regulation quoted here since 2012 has nothing to do with training or training. I don't have any information about the impact of change or legalization on these share rules of loan on the loan collection of those below. I just want to stress that with the bill it's been creating a refinement under a practice that has been practiced for a very many years at the Icelandic Leather Fund and was thought to have to change when the Kingdom Review Report was released in 2011. In fact, I find it very interesting that we haven't failed sooner, to shoot a little better under the loan fund of Icelandic students. That is primarily what this matter is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u100	A respectable president. This sounds strange to me. This is a special discussion on the exact subject of the 25 - year rule, so this is clearly something we need to discuss further. However, the highest response was made. Minister simply not my question about how this will affect the borrowers. That's what's been going on during the discussion on the LAIN, both in the last term and in this terms period, that when you go to some consultation... In section 4, says, by permission of the President: The work of the bill was started with the Icelandic student loan Fund. It's as if the loan fund of Icelandic students is the only thing involved in this bill. Why is that? Why not consult the university, with students, at high school, and so forth, because this is also their business. I find it very specific, and I have requested answers from the highest level. Minister. Why might it be that consultations were not more extensive? I realize that it's just getting better and there and down the streets, but we're talking about a highly specialized course for people who are in a very special setting. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I must ask, Why were there no greater discussions? They're directing students on this course, going to boarding school, it's being advertised. This study is being marketed, and it has to be done. That's half a million a year. I have to ask you, where are the students? Where did the discussion take place with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u101	A respectable president. This and the need for action has taken place since 2011, i.e. For five to six years. It had come to the point where the board of directors felt that they could no longer extend these loans unless things were resolved. There may be no demand for these loans, so it's not a test. However, if it does, the Ministry Board says that it is absolutely a requirement for loans to these studies to continue to be paid legal or legal requirements. For that reason, this case is presented here. It's no more complicated than that. The main reason that the bill lies lies is in a report of the National Re-examination that has been before all this time, and there are no hidden ills or any other plans behind this bill, while strengthening the source so that the government of the loans has the authority to lend money to these students if some students or students are reaching for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u102	Madam President. Thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. I don't think anybody's doubt is that the purpose of this law is good and to increase the benefit of a certain school group. In this case, freedom is entrusted with the fact that students who have completed a significant high school education may complete a student's test of a year of so - called going to college, often called the University Bridge, and may receive a loan to complete such a course without any prior financial concerns. I say more precisely because I know, and I hope most of the people in this room also know that the straddlers are shameful, so I put it pent. An article with the bill says about this, by permission of the President: The combination of a student group in that study is different from the one in a standard high school class. This is not the case. A student who took a student's exam at a high school where there is a wide range of ages, backgrounds, and standards was just a strong side of the school. This broad group makes the horizon of all students expand, and criticism increases. Diversity within these groups increases awareness and tolerance. It is simply not true that a wide range of years in high school will have a negative effect, as is indicated in the bill's report. Furthermore, a report says that this adjustment will give a group of individuals, and I highlight a particular group, an increased opportunity. Here you can see the passwords for a group of individuals: I will certainly think of the so - called freedom that this government seems to celebrate. Where is freedom in not allowing higher schools to take students over 25 years of age? Where is your freedom to turn people's hands so that they have no choice but to go to college on a high school bridge, which is the value of a student's test and yet not. Still about a certain group of individuals, with the permission of the president, but the report also states: Thus, high school seniors who start attending are required to complete a significant degree of education... - i.e. To be counted eligible in the former. Evidently, it would have to be a significant amount of study to have taken place before the age of 25. Now I don't know with the highest. Well, a minister of education, but I imagine a lot of people who are going to end up in the middle of nowhere, just the group that doesn't fit in with the chosen and specific group that this law-change is going to mean. Again we go on: A person will have the opportunity to pursue university education at the school that was completed. Usually there is no room for university education in other schools. It is, in my opinion, the primary fault of going to school or of the University Bridge because the choice of university education is impaired. Freedom to change one's mind. It is assumed that all individuals within this particular group will have made up their minds and that it is impossible to develop situations that actually arise very much in the course of college students, just changing their mind. It's important to have the freedom to change our mind. If that happened, the student is in trouble. How good it would be if the student had been given the opportunity and the freedom to complete his high school education and to take a test to students who were eligible for all university education! But it is apparently only for those who walk the straight and right paths of the north. Furthermore, freedom. According to the bill, borrowers will be given to students who wish to pursue higher education. It's all the freedom this bill is preaching. False freedoms acceptable to this government and to certain groups that please it, not all groups, not polymorphisms and not all individuals. To tell you the truth, I hate the changes that take place in our educational system. My feelings are that they are expanding the area of private reforms in the education system, like what they're doing. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir tore up earlier. What interests are they, Mr. Honorable President? What interests are actually being taken care of by setting the rules that high school cannot be paid by students in book studies over 25 years of age? And it is a change of law that increases the benefits of certain groups but reduces the total freedom to a real selection of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u103	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the link between marine crops and the fish lab laws, i.e. monitoring of the weight of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. This is the basis for the employment and innovation of the Department of Marine and Agriculture Ministers, which is proposed to legislation on the level of increased control of the weight of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. The correct headlining is together with responsible fishing management of the most important support in the fishing system. Ignition goes past weight or wrong weighting is one of the most serious offenses in my system. Individual fishing and fishing vessels have limited resources and are determined by registration in the Fishing Office's Fishing Office, how much is derived from the ship's catchmarks by species at each level. The results of the registry are also used as foundation for scientific counseling of the Marine Research Agency, the marine research and counseling centre and water as it is known today, and for the correct record of power. It's also about trust in the system, so that everyone involved, sailors, builders, fish farmers, and others, knows what it's all about when earning the country. The trust of certifying companies in the Icelandic fishing industry needs to be clear. In accordance with current rules, if ice is in the catch, it is permitted to complete the weight of a harbor with 3% ice extraction. The result is recorded in the Fishing Room Interpretation Network. However, if the current fish industry or the fish market has been authorised, weighing the catch on a waterfront, and then the catch can be brought back to reinvigorated, as we know, in the housing of fish farming or in the housing of a fish market authorised for recalibration. During recalibration, ice is separated from fish's resources and their weight is found. The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) accounts for 121, 102 with a recalibration permit, 16 with a home-wage license, and three weight loss licenses are within their own authority to handle weight gain on transport and on the responsibility of the relevant competent authority. Perpetations are fish farms and fish markets. About 45% of total resources are turned back every year of fishing. A fish lab has confirmed that in some cases, a lower ice rate during repercussion is observed than when there is no official check. Thus, it is entirely suspected that in these cases, there is less available than that. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the information of the Fish Room in order to have a more effective monitoring of the weighed Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) when rationalizing the false index of an ice ratio. The objective of the bill is to ensure a better and more accurate registration in the Fish House Regitation System by strengthening the resources of Fish Room to monitor the weight of the Marketing Authorisation holders when these were suspected of a false record of an ice ratio in the catcher of ships. In order to achieve this goal, it is suggested that the Fishing Room should increase its surveillance by the Marketing Authorisation Holder if it is identified by monitoring that there is a significant variation in the proportion of ice in the catch of the respective fish compared to the average ice ratio of the ship in the previous countries. In the case of increased monitoring of the Fish Room, the Marketing Authorisation Holder carries the cost to the target. This will only result in increased monitoring in those who have significant ice ratio abnormalities and will carry the cost of monitoring. Hence, most people are not afraid of these actions and follow - ups. Such a rule, however, has a warning effect and thus enhances the ability to weigh and register marine forces. I'd like to reiterate that there's a lot at stake here, the credibility of the Icelandic fishing system, so we know what really comes into this country so that, in fact, it can. He can put in his advice with all the basics. The increased monitoring also involves the use of information on previous countries reported when official surveillance is not being carried out. Is this a new command and must be made as an important step in increasing confidence in renovation. It is also suggested that if there are repeated variations in the proportion of ice in the catch of a particular species of fish compared to the average ice rate of a ship in the previous countries, the Fishing Room should cancel the GDP for up to one year. The re-vocation of a weight check permit is a normal operation in view of the trust granted by the government to the weight loss holders and the importance of the correct headlining. Finally, it is suggested that a team be added to a registration warrant in Article 5. the plan of the Fish Room for the currencies of Fish Labs due to increased monitoring will be totally unconvinced. In view of the importance of the role in the fishing management system, and the trust shown by the government, it is necessary to have effective surveillance on those who claim to be suspected of registering more ice ratios than is actually possible. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the work of those who follow the bill, which contains a detailed discussion and an explanation for the subject of the entire bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of great passage. I'd like to ask you about two things here. Two. it is observed that if there are repeated variations in the ice ratio in the catch of a vessel as land for the weight loss holder, the Fishing Room should cancel the GDP. The report does not reveal what is meant by a large degree of ice ratio abnormalities, and I think it's a tiny stick to what it means, what it really needs to be done to lose the weighed permit. I also wanted to ask more questions about what happens if people once lost their license. Is there a process that you can go through if you improve to get your license back? Looks like the highest. Minister for a while, and I'm going to pop in my other question. Then maybe I don't have to take another answer. I'd like to ask a few questions about the cost of this, in general at the Fish Room, her issues have been quite discussed now and at the highest. According to a minister, she believes that the transfer of Fish Room was not beneficial. This refers to a yearly estimate of the cost of information systems and experts of about 6 billion. K. 1.2 million. K. stock costs. I don't think it's too much overcrowded about the budget of Fish Room and the conditions that the Agency is in right now, being in two places, I think it's a little inexpensive of experts. If he is to be included in the budget of the matter, as the financial agenda says, and we must discuss it when it comes to it, a minister believes that in general the cost is greater? She doesn't have to answer me about the number I recited. It's like the highest. The minister entered this is a very important group of subjects, and the reputation is underneath. Does it feel that there is a general need to contribute more money to Fishing Room?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u105	Madam President. I would like to emphasize that these are a measure of burdensome measures, so that moderate behavior is required. Nonetheless, like a dog. A senator came in at the end, so much is up. The credibility of our fishing system is underneath, and all people within the system must carry out and give the right information so that we can build on what is the key to our system and that we are proud of it, i.e. Sustainable innovation is based on scientific advice. That's why this is so important, and there are repeated indications. In general, I don't like extreme care, and in part, it's burdensome. Why is that? Because the Fishing Room has had very strong evidence that certain structures, those in the country, do not follow the rules and laws we have set. Therefore, we need to strengthen our monitoring. I would also like to stress that the sailors have repeatedly pointed out this, which came up in the seaman strike. This is just to make sure you're being trusted, that you're doing it right. The cost, so that I only get into it, is natural paid by those in charge, i.e. of those who are under observation. They're going to pay the cost of this, and I think it's gonna make people get better. This results in a more careful response to labor. It's about the money for Fishing Room -- well. A senator is just lighting me up--then I'll be here Thursday afternoon. At 1700, and then I will go over the funds at the fishing and agricultural services, both to the Fish Service and Food Institute, and especially to the Marine Research Institute, our basic research agency in the fishing business, will build up the foundation we've made, and we'll have to be careful. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u106	A respectable president. I have little understanding of the Lawgiver's intention in these matters. This report states that the most serious breach in the system is the incorrect registration of sources or sources. It should then be noted that monitoring for all reggaspheres is excluded as well as that all of this is based on trust. President. This trust has long been gone, and it is advisable to plan on building up with two employees and possibly some of their actions. According to one report, the Fishing Office has confirmed that in certain cases a lower ice ratio is present over recalibration, but since no monitoring is warranted, the rate of recovery is recorded less than it really is. The laws they are now assuming that fish industry and fish markets have the right to rewoven catchers, people who have direct interests because registration is not exemplary. A respectable president. We have everything we need to deal with this problem by increasing electronic monitoring and legalization. If we attach to law 3% of the involuntary text, we'll link together to the end of the recalibration license of fish farming and fish markets. That's all it takes. It solves the prerequisite problem that exists, and it is untraced by a logical suspect. By having high levels of ice cream in the catch above the legal 3% that I speak for the loss of this business because no one who plans to make fish is available to pay 300 bucks. for a kilo of ice. At the same time, no one in the fishing business is interested in obtaining a fish that is unattainable, so that the catcher has both the advantage of gratifying it enough and the little at the same time. Then you can pick up the fish all you want for transport and other aspects of the chain of value. If there is a real interest in ending adultery, we should order standards, ask that they be labeled as microchip, and weighing them in a regular and real way, as well as in the microchip. The electronic monitoring of portweight is then by subtracting the male weight from the total mass of fish. The problem we face in the water is that there is a lot of error in measuring the weight of the toilet where the amount of ice is wet out. This is something that is an easy task for technology, and since we can monitor the product and production all the way to consumers, the whole journey, we must be able to use the same technology on this subject. In Article 3 of this report, the main component of the bill, the subject of the bill is identified as monitoring of the weight of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Furthermore, it is considered that the monitoring cannot be adequately monitored, including ... atpriority. In part 5 of the report, it is said that the cohesion of the European Environment Agency and the Fish Refiners Association were that by means of the bill, we were putting too much power in the Fishing House, while the National Association of Small Carpets and since the sailors'organization considered it to be a great improvement. A respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to keep the system the way it is today. I believe that a solution is reduced in staging in the current air supply to three years and removing the retranslation license for the same time. We can get a real picture of the rewindment. By measuring the exported fish at the same time, and then the items we extract from the sea, we can see with any certainty how far this will have a preconceived effect, leading to the fact that these minute data are available for many years back into the past. In the bill, as it is installed today, the legislatator is going to stop problems that undermine the credible fishing system. So, given the installed bill, as it is today, I ask: Wouldn't it be a slow game, since the surveillance is at a limited dose, for the whole party to possibly increase ahead of time, knowing that only 1.6% of them were under surveillance at any given time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u107	Madam President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise a change in the social law and private partnership laws, an electronic company file etc., on deck. 541, 410th matter. The point of the procedure is the simplicity of the legal environment of a partner and a private partner. In this way, the changes proposed in the bill are aimed at simplifying the legal environment due to the registration of a private partner. Changes are made due to the preparation of electronic corporate files that enable individuals and legislators to enter an electronic private partner. There will be additional forms of society that will continue to be added. The bill also suggests changes due to changes made on the law of annual accounts in June 2016. The changes suggested in the bill are two. First of all, adjustments are provided to the streamlined legal environment of your partner and private partner due to the preparation of electronic company files. This changes means that a partner file can determine the form of notifications and the package leaflets to be sent to the file and to the private section of the treatment to be electronic. The change is part of the preparation of electronic corporate files that enable individuals and legislators to enter private and, later, other electronic partnerships, but the preparation of the electronic file began in 2013. An electronic company registry is expected to be implemented in the latter part of 2017 and then first only for private enterprises, followed by members as well as other partners. The ideaology behind electronic administration is to provide better employment services, a simple organisation and to change the registration of a partner, as well as speed up the whole service. An electronic company file is expected to be able to create key stock documents and notifications of change as well as to be signed using all electronic documents whenever possible. The benefits of electronic corporate files are considerable, as are more closely linked to a paper with the bill and it is clear that an electronic company file will provide economic efficiency and efficiency for the job as well as for the head of the tax. The premise that such efficiency and efficiency are being achieved is that all parties make use of an electronic company file that is available to them. At this point, people and legislators living abroad cannot use electronic signatures and therefore cannot use an electronic company file. It is also suggested in the legislation that the notifications and data related to the submission of a partner file should be provided in Icelandic. Is this merely an explanation for a project that is already being carried out in accordance with Icelandic seminary? Second, in June 2016, changes in annual accounts are proposed in the bill. As a result of a change in annual accounts, micro-particles, as defined in the law, were used to access 7 mg. Section 3. Their legislation allows them to negotiate a business statement and an economic statement based on the EU tax returns which is considered to be a valid annual bill under the law on annual accounts for contributions at the main meeting. Such statements are not required by an accountant or an observer. The figures of such management indexes and economic indexes make a clear picture of the survival and economy of the society in the sense of number 20. each year's bill. In accordance with the above-mentioned change in annual accounts laws, there is no need to submit a report on relevant partnerships and private law, so that at the main meeting of partner and private partnerships, which are considered to be micro enterprises, in the sense of annual accounts, there is no need to submit a report of accountants or viewers if the budget is used by 7 mg. Section 3. each year's bill to negotiate a business statement and an economic statement based on the company's tax returns to annual accounts for official publication. If this bill is legal, it will be a simple element of the institution, operation, and registration of private members at first for a time and later partner. The changes affect the communication between partners and founders of such organizations. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it is not expected to result in additional expenses for government funds. Madam President. I believe here is an important bill aimed at simplifying the legal environment of your partner and private partner. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u108	Madam President. Thank you for this great bill. I can't wait to treat them on a financial and business committee. We're discussing an electronic company file and I've had a lot of interest in it and Pirates to open up a company file, a annual account and a shareholder file for the public so that you can look into the holdings and the changes in it and that it is done free of charge. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget that he approves of such an arrangement. I wanted to look for an opinion of the highest order. A minister in this matter, whether this is the thing to be considered in her opinion, especially with regard to the cost and general availability issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u109	V.E.G. President. As suggested in this bill, it turns only to its private partner formulation in order to begin, and it will then be added to more form of society. If I understood why. A senator would be right to ask about the parts of society then - in general, I am also a spokesman for things that can be published that can be revealed to the public if that is the case. [[Taken to:]] But an accurate answer, I really can't give in this. I'm sure it will. A senator reviews these matters on the committee, and we can consider them further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u110	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the changing of the European Commission Actual Fund for tourist positions. The objective of the bill is to change the law-enforcement fields and construction funds so that state-bound implementations fall outside the law, and such projects are expected to be funded on the basis of the laws on the building of national structures in order to protect nature and culturally. The national programme is funded directly from a government fund, and it is natural that government projects are financed in this way rather than that governments are applying for strength in competitive funds, such as the tourism fund. These changes can include improved implementation planning, improved priorities, and a more progressive overall view of construction at tourist locations according to a comprehensive schedule at which the Member States will need to apply for the implementation fund. The objective, then, is to increase the efficiency of the fund. As a result of these changes, only rural and private communities will be applied for sponsorship in the tourist trade. Larger rural activities requiring substantial amounts of money are expected to be funded and implemented on the basis of national programmes. At the same time, applications for private concentrations are cleared so that they will also be able to apply for grants to general infrastructure at tourist locations, but under current laws they can apply only for safety or action in behalf of nature protection. This change is expected to have a positive effect on landowners and other representatives of the country, so far it has been difficult to get financial support for needed infrastructure at tourist locations. In the bill it is assumed that tourist attractions, supported by the project fund, are open to the public'free traffic. The provision guarantees that those in charge will not be able to accept access fees into areas that have been fortified from the fund. However, people will be able to take the normal service fee to support the current operation of the source, e.g. parking fees for the maintenance and management costs of the parking lot, which have been funded. The same is in the law on the National Building Program. Under local regulations the fund is expected to have a 20% requisition and the requirement for counterproduction was reduced in 2016 from 50% to 20%. It had been shown that many smaller rural areas had difficulty funding the efforts of the protest. These changes in the quality of the fund will be followed by a review of the proper ratio of the assembly process. Other changes in the bill include a decrease in the number of fund directors from four to three, but the number of directors in general is better off being odd. It is suggested that the limitation of income at 3/5 parts of the host tax should be removed. In the past few years, this income has not been dependent on the funds, so the General Assembly has had to contribute more money to the budget of each year. As a result of this change, the fund will be completely funded by Generalis's decision of the budget at a time. Then, in line with U.S. Accounting, a change is proposed that it is clear how to finance the fund and is proposed on the bill to pay off the funds of the fund. Finally, a 2 - mg word change is proposed. Section 4. The law says that the fund should be assigned to a minimum once a year. This means that more is allowed if necessary. I am stressing that, still, one of the funds'tasks will be to contribute to a structure that is designed to increase the number of travel destinations that increase the distribution of tourists through the country and reduce pressures in other places. This role is very much in the spirit of the policy presented in Vega on travel services and is well supported by many goals in that direction. The sea has not been able to care for these aspects with great force so far, for an urgent and urgent structure in the most vast places has been ahead of priority, and rightly so. It is expected that there will be a new labor change, which, in fact, would include: reflected in this bill, this role will be more eschatological than ever in the fund's activities. It is as once said, in the spirit of the policy under way. If the bill is legal at this spring council, it will be my will to advertise applications on the basis of new rules before long, i.e. much sooner than ever. Farmers and individuals will have better access to their applications, and they can be very careful about where they are going next year. At the end of the discussion, I suggest that the case be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u111	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of great passage. I can't resist making him talk about certain answers, it tickles me to have a minister here on the side of answering questions that come up into your mind. I'd like to ask you a few questions last year about my financial issues. V.E.G. In its case, a minister stated that the three fifths of the host tax, which so far have slipped into the fund, will not do so, but will go into the budget and into a financial programme, in accordance with it. That is expected to be 776 billion. K. each year for the next five years. So says, with President's permission: ▪ If the bill remains unchanged, the law does not assume that it will result in additional expenses for the state's funds, to some degree. I thought this bill, which is good in many ways, and I'm impressed with many things in its contents, went on to see that places in public would themselves go into budgets, wouldn't it? They used to be competing for this summer in here, but they go into the budget, right? In fact, we view two sources of money to build up at tourist locations instead of one. Does that not really mean an expansion? Which is well, I'm not complaining about it if they're supposed to put extra money on these matters. To be honest, I was kind of disappointed when I read this sentence in the report that the change would not bring additional expenses. Perhaps the same funds go to the fund, but they do so as to build up a tourist facility owned by the government in another part of the financial system. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister to see if this does not mean that there will be more money in the structure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u112	Madam President. You're absolutely right. A senator says that this means that we are suggesting that we be given up in the development of a tourist facility. This change means that we're trying to improve efficiency and prevent the misunderstanding of an institution of funds at one agency's office being applying for a competitive fund, which is also at the funds of another agency. These funding are being replaced late each summer, so it is bound to one - year - long, not over the year. We have a national plan that is this new phenomenon and we have a very good document and a lot of good work there. It is good to have a full view of the need to build up in tourist areas across the country. The fund, in turn, is a competitive fund that can only change its role. National areas have been reassigned to the Environment Ministry. The tourist market fund is then for rural society and private partners and the role is slightly extended so that private citizens, e.g. not only because of the security or natural activity but also because of the government's efforts to spread tourists around the country, to build some sails around the country, or whatever else it may be. We're setting up money in a national programme as well as spending more money on the budget. This combined means a considerable increase in the amount of money in the construction of tourist facilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u113	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that I understand that correctly because it says in the report, I hope I'm not going outside the subject of this bill, by permission of the president: If the bill becomes legalized, projects at tourist attractions must be financed or the administration of the State directly by the budget. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is that the amount of money in the budget? I know it's under custody. Environment Minister, like the highest. A minister came in, but because this has been introduced into the report, it would be a bit fun to see the overall number of things that should be added to the construction of tourist locations on the one side of the government and then to hold this amount to the fund for the next five years, which are 766 million. K. every year. I suppose the fund was often having trouble getting all the money out every year, isn't it? This has been difficult because it has been difficult to recruit and get into action. I think it's a good thing that we're getting something more fixed. Right at the end, I'd like to ask about a decrease in control of four to three. One day in sociology, you were taught that there should always be odd numbers in control, so it may be the best. However, the bill says that several reporters pointed out that the same number of people were right to keep or increase to five. So says, with President's permission: However, in view of the changing role of the fund and the principles of the law, it is appropriate to reduce the number of the directors to three... It seems to me that the representative of the travel agency is losing one of his two agents, he's only got one. V.E.G. A minister could explain only how he compares with what he sees in a report in the light of the changed role of the fund and the legal standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u114	Madam President. That's right, we're going to propose on the bill to reduce the number of directors from four to three. It's as if it's better to have a point number. Other than that, i.e. There's one agent from the travel agency, one from rurals and one from the Ministry. - Now I don't remember what. A senator was asking me a question before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u115	The total number with...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u116	Yeah, right. You see, we've been maping all of the infrastructure for tourists and tourism and the sector. It is also interesting to accept transportation because people are being more attentive and are being introduced into a transport program in particular. There are specific projects that especially benefit travel and the tourist. We're also putting extra money in the country plan. It's a new phenomenon, in fact, it hasn't existed before. I'm sure it'll be difficult to place all the money in the national program that you think is missing. That's a lot of money if you take all the building you need. I don't know the exact number. If what is already under national parks and other conditions, it will come into the national program. Then there's going to be more money in there. The mission is to secure the funding of the national programme, and then the Agency fund gets more tourist attractions. So together it's more, but I'm sure that it's going to show up to continue missing funding in the national programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u117	Madam President. We're here to discuss the changes to the European Commission Actual Fund for tourism. Thank you for your input and what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his inputs as well. I think it's a whole bill that helps when I look over it. It's very normal, like the highest. Minister said, the state is no longer the candidate in this fine fund. Then we arrived at a national structure program for the protection of nature and culture, their long, long title. It certainly is a vague financing, so if money is missing, such as the highest. A minister came to, certainly needs to consider the source. Because if we've mixed up, like I'm going to follow, the host's fee that now runs unchanged to the State, it's hard to see which other funds are going to enter the national budget that the government has access to, whether it's about national parks or other places. A tourist's budget, money goes to rurals, and private cartels, so it benefits. There are conditions that require that, as the text says, places that receive strength from this fund are free of charge. However, private workers can collect their fees. Now it has been confirmed in a legal program very recently that a private member, or Helgasfells, has the authority to do so. This is a problem that becomes more obvious every year, which I like to call a bioavailability problem, which involves tourists getting through localities, some of which may be easy places to access, but there may also be mountain peaks that are increasingly popular among outdoor people. Then we say, Homelands fence the area between highways, and that mountain. We don't have to go up to Esju to see it. It's become very difficult many times, I've got my own experience, to get to the entrance of these mountains, simply because you have to go through your own countries. This, of course, is actually forbidden, and not well seen; these are not common people; they are even breeding countries. This has been done very little to bring about a measure of order. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to consider the problem. It is possible to use some of the money from tourist attraction funds to secure access through local countries. It is often just a pril and fence, and it is a small path and some road markings and other needed items. This doesn't have to be complicated. In fact, some of the local residents themselves or their owners have caused some kind of damage, either at their own expense or have tried to apply for it to the executive position, such as Helgafells' case, to receive two denials, and to end up charging 400 bucks. on you. This bioavailability issue is very common abroad, e.g. correspondent in Britain and Scotland, Ireland, even in Germany It's a part that's kind of let go. I can give you many, many examples of, for example. Visitors near Reykjavík, which are very popular since this problem has become a problem, even so that people have been driving through their own countries and on a normal basis, but they need to be taken care of. For the budget money business, with the 776 million a year that comes from a state fund, it's certainly a cause for rejoicing, but the mess with the national programme and its financing is still in my opinion. There's one thing about the hosting fee I've been talking for all my life after I made it to the council, and it's that my stay-in-the-bed will be a percentage of stayings, not a fixed amount, 300 bucks. Right now. It is only natural that a place to stay with a simple bed in a barn may not be paid the same amount of luxury at a farm hotel or a hotel in town. I think this is a fair requirement, and I'm sure it would greatly increase the government's income in a tourist fund. There are other ways. We can mention coming expenses or excommunications, but this is the subject of a very second discussion. So far, the contributions from the European Commission fund have actually been too low. This may be 500,600 million a year. The previous 50% fence was way too high, then the 20% fence came along. I believe it is still far too high and that, in fact, the contribution of a community should be somehow proportional to its size. Four-and-a-half-sevenths of Gnums don't necessarily contribute the same percentage as a large community, let's say Akureyritown or something. You need to revise, too. My meditation or comments are well - thought - out so that this bill can cope. This is called a change in the number of medicines you may need to take or take at the highest level. Minister of his own. That's why I'm finished with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u118	Madam President. I want to be very brief about what we have to deal with. A senator came in. I can totally say that now it's my job to set up a national plan. When this started, the natural pass was next to it. Actually, the natural pass was to finance the national programme. Then the country plan, the law with its long name, went through, but the natural pass didn't. That's why the mission is to secure funding for the plan, because it's very well done and clear. It is a vision that is very good. It is true that getting the budget out has been partly difficult, i.e. The fund has received applications far beyond the financial resources it has received. Once we have been assigned to specific projects, for various reasons the work has not been successful. Thus, money has been left in the fund, which is also depressing. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came into the public court. That's a big deal, of course. It doesn't matter what you're talking about and what you're wondering, you always stop at the public court in the end. He has many work to do, but we need to start discussing it seriously and make some decisions about it. That's a good tip. A senator brought about the possible role of the European Commission funds for tourism that if any of the owner's wishes, e.g. to allow tourists to pass through their country, he receives funding to build them up so that they are not overstepped or damaged. Also interesting is the fact that rural communities and the protests are proportional to the size of their communities. In terms of receipt of private countries, we think that this changed arrangement in the tourism sector is increasing the financial resources for private citizens. It should reduce the likelihood that owners will start paying when they are possibly doing so against their own will, if so they see themselves feel compelled to charge. Then there's a big deal. But if landowners have to build something to allow tourists into an area and don't really want to pay for it, there's more money in the fund, and their role is more to the private stock than it's already been.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u119	A respectable president. I recommend a plagiarization proposal for pharmaceutical policy to 2022. As HCP, I would like to give particular attention to patient access to necessary medication as well as to the state's medical expenses. As stated in the introduction to the synonym, its primary objective is to ensure access to medicinal products, quality, efficacy and safety, and the reasonable and practical use of medicinal products. This also requires practical and rational use of drugs, especially the most expensive and the most difficult of them. It is also an important factor to cope with abuse and misuse of drugs, which include waste and harm to people. The commitment proposal I make here takes into account, and it takes into account policy plans for new government laws, thus reaching as long as financial programmes, i.e. to 2022. Last year, a so - called health minister proposed a synonym decree on the same material that could not be fulfilled. The synonym was followed by a heading to 2020 that the minister had agreed for but is not presented as the copy of this synopsis proposal, as it were, only a short period of her life span. However, it is in good stead, and there is more evidence to support the emphasis and aims of the Parliamentary decree, which included the procedure. taking into account earlier drug policies that were targeted in 2007, the focus of health authorities on pharmaceutical matters, surrounding national policies, and the development of medicinal products in the past. As with any previous pharmacokinetic policy, the Council of Europe's Directives, the World Health Organization's benchmarks of drugs and the aims of a drug layer that includes providing sufficient supply of necessary medicinal products with the most practical distribution based on natural competition. This synonym, as in the first, stresses the potential price for drugs and the high level of public payment at the expense of their users. It is emphasized that there are no barriers to natural competition in the market and that bioavailability will be improved in the country area, especially in the smallest places where services are limited, and that it will be desirable to sell certain goods in public stores. Then there is a change from a previous synonym to a registered nurse and midwives in a limited right to prescribe a particular medicinal product. In recent years, special nurses and midwives in neighboring lands have been given limited access to prescriptions for certain medications that they in their profession need to provide to the patients. The national surgeon and various other organisations have concluded that the same limited prescribing authority will be recorded in this country as it is currently being planned. Another innovation in this suggestion is emphasised on the safety and quality of the veterinary medicinal product, which is as important as the safety and quality of the medicinal product for humans. It is considered necessary to add an electronic registry of the veterinary medicinal product, in response to an increase in drug resistance due to the use of antibacterial agents. Happily, this is not much of a problem in this country, as we know in many lands, but there is good reason to respond in advance. The synonym also points out that health expenditures increase faster than total government costs and that costs for new drugs increase faster than the costs due to systemic products and other health costs. So I'll witness in the report, by permission of the President: The treatment of patients with new animals increases more rapidly, and it becomes more difficult and more difficult to meet the increase in costs for this development. Thus, the main challenges of pharmaceuticalism and, in fact, of all countries, must increasingly create an agreement on the induction of new drugs and the bridge gap between expectation, scientific development, and financial resources. Most countries, both small and large, rich and poor, are increasingly having difficulty in ensuring access to new and expensive drugs and implementing programs for their use within financial resources. The International Group encourages cooperation between solutions, and it is apparent that a small country such as Iceland alone is not able to handle things that are thought to be necessary in larger countries, such as predicting a new drug mentioned in English, by permission of Presidents, Δhorizon sclanging, and economic assessment of drugs. Therefore, it is necessary to monitor and participate in international activities and learn from the countries that are successful, especially for small countries such as Iceland. Like my predecessors in recent years, I have the short time I have been working as a health minister to promote pharmaceutical cooperation with other nations in order to improve the availability of medicinal products and to achieve an increase in competition with a larger pharmaceutical market. At a meeting of the Norwegian Ministers Committee held in Oslo last week, there was a discussion of the Norwegian pharmaceutical cooperation and there is clear evidence that in all countries the political will is to increase such cooperation, especially with regard to shopping and drug exports. Already, the North countries have established a spirit of cooperation because of this, as the Benelux countries have also done. I expect North American partnerships on shopping and drug exports will start to be effective even now this year. At present, there is a bill for a new drug song within the Ministry. In fact, it was said in the Government Constitution that we would create a bill for the Council for spring, but there is little chance of it, since it was necessary to send it into a technical notification process in the European region for several months. So it may be possible that by the end of the assembly in spring, we will be planning to contribute the bill to the Fall Council of 2017 and hopefully by the beginning of the fall council. That work takes into account the viewpoints and goals presented in the Senate arrangement for this work. A respectable president. I suggest that the proposal be referred to the highest level. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u120	President. I'd like to hear from the highest. Healthcare Ministers because it appears that it is one of the main objectives of this therapeutic policy to ensure bioavailability of medicinal products. According to one report, it is not enough to be available on market at all times but to be on a controlled price and to ensure that Iceland's health insurance is actively involved in the cost of their users to the maximum extent possible. Besides, there is nothing in the policy of meeting people, of raising government payment to allow economic access to the products. It is not enough that the medication is available if people who are ill and who need it cannot afford to buy it. I wondered if this came up and why it's not in policy and if it's the highest. A minister does not feel that there is a need to meet the problem in some way. Today, more and more voices in the community are talking about the big problem that we are actually putting on the heads of sick people when they need community support most. It is coming up with a new pay system on May 1, but it is not at medical expenses. A big part of the cost is the drugs. How will we come to meet people so that we do not let those who are sick become anxious because of economic anxiety when they need the most needed time to be calm and quiet in order to regain their health?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u121	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It is true that the basic theme of the doctrine of pharmaceuticalism is access to essential drugs. The reason that the cost of the event is only in the general policy is that it is eventually decided on the government's financial and financial resources to the Party. That's where we agree, me and the senator, that it should be done better. When it comes to medicines that have a fixed roof at the cost of medicine, it is an expense system. Happily, all the most expensive drugs used in hospitals are generally supplied there, so patients do not have to worry about the cost. The government's policy is to reduce the public payment of the health system. Medicinal products are not excluded there. The reason for the lack of accurate comment in the drug program is that the budget is determined by the World Council of Congress. In turn, the government's financial policies are presented with funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u122	President. I appreciate the answers. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to cast an idea. How's the top? A minister of the idea of forming a patient's emissary here? I've heard from talking to people that the system is extremely complex and people who are weak in difficulty understanding exactly which rights they have. Part of the cost lies in the fact that no one is holding people's affairs and is their advocate of the system, helping them to resolve complications and to know exactly what benefits they are entitled to from the system. I wonder if this was not an option and might be at home, perhaps not in this policy but in health policy, that there is an agent, a spokesman of patients, who can handle their case and help them find out exactly what help they have the right to receive from the state, so that people don't have a full job trying to get some rights when they don't even know who they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u123	Madam President. I can agree with the senator that such things should at least not at home in the pharmaceutical policy, but the availability of patients and individuals to inform and about their rights is certainly at home in general health policy, I agree. As has often been observed in my case at the Senate Hall, I aim to work on such a general health policy. This is one of the things that you would like to enter into that work. There are not exactly any information or persons available to patients, of course there are both in the medical system but also in the field physician's office, such as and then the emissary of the Generals allows individuals to seek their rights and obtain information. I agree with what. A senator says it can always be done better. The health system is very complex. Health matters are generally very complex for people who do not know. There is every reason to make sure that information is good, that it is clear and understandable for people who have, as it were. A senator pointed out that there was much more to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u124	Madam President. We'll discuss a proposal for the resolution of pharmaceuticalism to the year 2022. I want to thank you very much. Minister for his history. This is a very important thing. On the one hand, it is because drugs in modern society are very important because access to right medicines and appropriate drugs can save lives as well as change lives completely. Also important is this case because drugs are, unfortunately, frequent animals, no matter whether we are referring to the State to pay or to the person who needs the medication. Therefore, I miss that this is not a fixed term for the government's expense, which is just the other side of the same coin, which is the patient's expense. V.E.G. In his historical history, a minister spoke of the need to be sufficient for the government's cost. Depending on who looks at what is sufficient, the situation may vary somewhat. I listened to the highest. The minister explains it in the opposite direction. paritaprevir The Halldóra Mogensen, which turned up in this regard, was to include only in general the cost of this policy because it would be done in financial terms. All right, well, it will be done in financial terms. Still, I miss that this is not part of the financial agenda. In my opinion, that would have been a foundation for what comes in the budget bill when it comes to that. For example, the budget of the 2018/2022 budget, on page 20. 308, that one of the basic objectives of medication - and I know we're talking about pharmaceuticalism, but this is related - is preventing excessive use of drugs and keeping costs to a minimum. It's set here. I would have liked to have made a strong statement regarding the government's financing and would have thought that it would have been more subjugated to the highest policy. There's a government on this. At the moment, we're in the middle of something and we have to rely on a good word. A minister of those matters, and we will surely review them in some context. There are other things that matter more than crowns and pennies. Although there is an important point where drug access is involved, it also matter what other objects are. In this regard, I find it especially important what is being discussed in step 2 of this suggestion regarding safety, quality, and effectiveness of medicinal products and pharmaceutical services. Whether to improve drug use and improve compliance, etc. is discussed. and that there is special consideration - and it is also only about this in chapter 3 on the wise and practical use of medicines - to examine the interaction of drugs because the nation is getting older, drugs are getting more complicated, and medication is being cured or prescribed for more and more complex diseases. It's really a big consumer thing, I think, which happens to users. These issues need to be extremely good. I think it's a good thing that we're in the drug conference, and I think it needs to be done. It is said that the state is increasingly having problems ensuring access to new and expensive drugs and making plans for their use within financial resources. This also involves health costs. Here again, I find it so important that we keep in mind that the uptake of new and expensive drugs is not just an expense but an investment. This is not just an investment in shortening the hospital life, though it is certainly one of the investments, but it is an investment in health and activity. That's why they can keep people in a job market and save when they come into the social security system, which is actually not what they're dealing with. Ministers, but they come to the rest of the government's finances. That is what we need to keep in mind whenever we discuss the medication issues. In the article on page 19. 5 Explains the increase in practicality and good sense in the use of drugs, and it is appropriate to consider a way in which Sweden has subsidies. There's very little discussion on this, in a few lines. I say it may be a good idea, and it would probably be one of the committees. I'd like to get more meat on my bones and get some information on what's being referred to. At least I can't see it from that text. If this is something that we members of Congress should receive at our level, as part of the way some expense event or subsidies take place, then we need to get more information on that matter at the time than is found in this report alone. I guess there's something to make a movie. A welfare committee can look at the details. I don't know if it's right to do it at this point. Madam President. I'm running out of time, and I'd like to say that this is about, and the highest. A minister also did so in his background, investigating whether it is desirable to be allowed to sell certain products in public stores. Then I wonder if it's a reasonable idea and if the lack of medication should interfere. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a matter of great care.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u125	Madam President. There seems to be a number of good things at first reading in this direction. I am pleased that public information should be enhanced, particularly regarding the adverse reactions on drug use and the effects of multidrug use, and that the role of the users in self-administration should be enhanced and patients responsible for their own health. That's a great goal. I also rejoice that the increase in drug resistance due to the use of antibiotics in livestock is an enormous problem in the world that threatens health and the use of antibiotics should be kept to a minimum. I specifically agree with the plan of Ministers to cope with the abuse of mental and analgesics, where use is considerably higher in Iceland than in other parts of the North countries. What a vital assignment this is! What I think quickly is missing in this course is two. First of all, I miss being treated with preventative measures to reduce drug abuse. Government contract states, by permission of the president: ▪ Government policies and planning will make sure that people are affected by health and well - being. The future will be reduced from direct and indirect costs for the community all by promoting safety and public health activities. I'd like to hear some explanation from a minister why these views do not belong in a pharmaceutical policy. Maybe they belong somewhere else, I don't know, but I feel like they belong. Second, in a government contract, the decision to reduce the payment of health care providers is to be made. A more intensive drug policy puts it that the health - care providers and the general public's at risk, but there is no intention of reducing the burden of payment for those who are ill and who need vital medication. This is rather surprising in view of what is stated in the Treaty, but also that the primary objective of the pharmacological policy itself is to ensure drug access. By permission of the president, this report will be presented: In line with pharmaceutical companies, the National Competent Authority must ensure access to necessary medicinal products and the necessary product information. In collaboration with stakeholders, the European Medicines Agency must continue to seek all ways to ensure that the necessary medicinal products are always available in the country. These are all good and blessed, to make sure that there is always medicine in the country, but are we not also required to ensure that those in need of these products have financial ability to approach them? I look forward to a better look at policy within the health committee and hope that my views will be well prepared there. It is clear that by means of targeted measures to improve human health through preventive measures, drug demand could be totally reduced and costs would be reduced. Then there should be little point in meeting financially with those who are in need of life - threatening medications. We, as a nation, have come to a very dangerous place to put people on the ground when they face serious health problems and need community support most. But this is the case, and I think it's very serious if it's not to be taken up in a drug conference to the next five years, except for the preemptive value of not dropping seriously ill people into financial problems with related anxiety and stress that simply prevent recovery. And what will follow? Is it possible for people to experience disability because they do not have the opportunity to achieve health? How much does it cost the community? This is a chain effect, and we need to approach this group in a whole way. What seems to be saving in one of the cells of the excel document just ends as an entry at the expense of some other slot in the document. You ask yourself, " Is there an effective way to approach these problems? ' I can't wait to learn more about this on the Committee. I know that when we talk about things that have to be fixed and developed in society, it's always said that there's some cost behind it and there's no money to do it, but the point is that there's always money to save. If we look at this whole - souled, we can find out where we can save and how we can afford other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u126	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the past history of this important case, a plagion proposal presented here for pharmaceutical policy to 2022. A concordance was proposed at the Council of 145 C.E., but it did not work out. This may now be a well - intentioned face lift, as mentioned at the highest level. A minister has been cut down, one cut out, and another added. It is a vast group of paintings, and, of course, it is a giant class in the absolute sense that affects all the people of the land from cradle to grave, and the use of drugs continues to increase. Having good medicine for use in our lives makes us more and more dependent. Of course, they make a big difference for many - much less time, and so are those who need medication to keep their whole life and who could not do without it. If use continues to increase, of course, costs increase for both individual and public. This presents a great challenge to governments at any given time. This is a major global subject. In this sector, there's a lot of growth. It is a field of knowledge and evolution, and business is so eluded, but it is not always the human spirit that makes up the market; it is the source of materialism. This is what the government has to say. We regularly hear of new drugs going around the world, which, of course, are a great and loud demand that the latest and best drugs be used constantly. And they're expensive. But this is understandable, we wrestle here at the root of our lives, and we all want to have the best life. Today, for example, it is likely that nearly 100 medicines are being tested in the fight against diseases such as alzheimer and arthritis. Iceland has a very specific drug use status. We'll stand out compared to the neighboring countries. We use a lot more agonist, sedatives, and anxiolytics and hypnotics, as well as analgesics. In that case, the use of antibiotics by the Icelanders is greater than that of the rest of the northern population. Not long ago, it was shown in the medical journal on prescribing that we use testosterone products several times in our neighboring countries. This discussion has been going on for a long time, this massive use of various antipsychotics, and the main weighting of antidepressants. There is no country in the OECD states that uses another form of antidepressants like Icelanders. The increase is an example of 27% in the course of 20101⁄2015. Studies show that it is women who use more drugs than men. The great use of antidepressants in Iceland gives us reason to keep an eye on and see how we can change this. They ask, "Why do you enjoy so much of antidepressants? " Why do Icelanders use so much antipsychotic drugs, far more than any other country? We're going to use twice and three times as much as our next neighbor. What's your special situation? When asked, the answer is thin. They don't know. They haven't seen it. There's one of the challenges in this pharmaceutical policy that I believe. It's a small thing that we should analyze the reason for this. Like our neighboring nations, we consider ourselves to be less healthy and happy, even one of the happiest people in the world. This may not mix well. This drug - based approach presents a real challenge. It is shown that the correct and reasonable use of medicines can reduce other health costs. Of course, finding a suitable medicine in times of need increases the quality of life. This may prevent hospitalisation, result in shorter periods of waste and fewer days of illness. But there is also the wrong use of drugs, as we know. It can pose a risk to patients, resulting in waste and high cost. This proposal for the currently proposed pharmacological policy includes three key factors. First, the availability of all the people of the country is increased by the second: the safety, quality and efficacy of medicinal products and pharmaceutical services and then by the third, the practical and practical use of medicinal products. I'd like to kill a few things. It is said that the market will be started and more competitive in cooperation with the northern countries and that drug exports will be strengthened and improved, looking for cooperation in cooperation with other Northern countries. This is an important thing. Shared shopping for bigger markets. But I now remember that this has been part of the discussion for almost two decades. Asks us: Why is it so slow, and why is it so difficult? We know that there are strict demands for new drugs. But the Norwegian market, e.g. ... withauthority? In so many respects, we feel that we are comparable to our neighbors. Here, too, it is designed to limit the right to prescribe certain medications by trained nurses and midwives. It was the first course that I remember, too. It's good. I think it's mostly a pregnancy issue, perhaps hear a minister more accurately about it. It is then spoken of as a free-selling drug that will be considered to open up sales for them in public stores, especially in the country. I don't think there's any reason to carry the country's borders in this, since most of the country's settlements are small. Since they are not available, there are small medicine camps or medical facilities, let us call them, in clinics, or at medical clinics that effectively solve these problems. Small medicine camps are occasionally employed in association with health institutions. That'll do just fine. Then I'd like to ask about what's cut out of this drug conference, the point where we're going to investigate ways to reduce the value of a tax on drugs, and whether such a reduction will be due to patients, the name of the old proposal. The question is, why was this issued? There are other factors to which the proposal and safety, quality, and effectiveness of medicinal products were made. There is an increase in clinical pharmacists in medical institutions, e.g., measures to improve compliance and compliance with multi-drug use, which will be consistent. The selection of medicinal products and the preparation of the medicinal product in a healthcare facility will be subject to pharmacological advice. The use of multiple medicinal products in patients concomitantly used is a major problem in the elderly. I hope to the highest. A minister can shed some light on these matters. I might get to come up and answer him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u127	Madam President. I'm just going to take up this important matter, which is a drug conference to 2022. A lot of things have been done here. I have to agree with it all the time. First, when we talk about why the Icelanders use so many drugs, it was said that it was because it was so dark here, that the Icelanders might be heavier than many other nations. We might have to prescribe more vitamin D to a person than some high - frequency antidepressants, and I'm going to belittle the fact that they've done pretty good for a lot of people. I think part of the explanation is that we speak very highly of mental disorders in this country on the subject of an appeal number. Since then, drug use in young children has increased greatly. Part of my explanation is that if children need any assistance on the part of the community, support or anything like this, a psychiatrist should have decided that the child has some particular disorder to give that support, i.e. The rural society will then be paid from an equal reserve to cover the costs resulting in giving adequate support to children. It's not absolute, but it's more and less like this. I think that's part of the explanation. I have worked within the school and have seen that medicines have made many children miserable and have helped them to gain a new life. But I have also seen significant results of a variety of treatments, which we may talk about afterward in the next language, which I think would require even more support in the system than is. We have a very good shopping department, which is the land hospital when it comes to buying medicine. I remember accepting a bill that set up a budget board on public shopping, which included it. Make room for medication. You've been surprised that hospital drugs, the so-called "S" medicine, are over plan year after year, it doesn't seem to have changed there, although maybe it should be practical. True, an invitation is often being made for a long time, but it should have worked in both directions if you had thought. It has been a little surprised that nothing has happened in this regard. I'll have to agree with the last speaker, OK? paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson Thomson, that is in 2017, and we are a little in the same place that we've been doing for decades in regard to an extraordinary number of cases. You find it incomprehensible that we are living in a computer age when it comes to the need for public members to cooperate on information so that we have all the main information about drugs and medications and can find somewhere with other health and administrative institutions. Of course, this is supposed to be a long time ago. This is part of our ability to deal with drug abuse. I also have to say that I pay attention to the h- team, where there's talk of increased and improved access to drugs by putting free-selling drugs in public stores. Medical and health care programs are very capable of handling this. I think it's wise that we keep it, but we're no more than shopping the medicine in general. It should further be emphasised, as stated above, to increase the number of pharmaceuticals and to ensure that they are actually more effective within the pharmacy and where drugs are generally sold. This has reduced the application to pharmaceutical education. This refers to strengthening our study and promoting growth. It would be interesting to know if there is a plan, in what way it should be done, because it cannot be seen in the financial structure how it is thought. It speaks of things to do, such as improved software, and I came here for electronic prescriptions and electronic management and all of this. The financial programme says that the clinical database should be established and that the implementation of applications for clinical drug studies and the conduct of such tests will be in accordance with the requirements of the EU. It's an operation, but there's nothing more to say about it, I feel like, how to do it, and whether this is a set amount. This figure refers to an increase of 9.2 billion during a period of financial planning, of which 3 billion are expected as a result of an increase in budgeting in 2018. This increase is said to be primarily due to estimated expenditures in 2017, above what was expected in terms of budgets. Then there may not be much left when we look at what needs to be done and suggested. There's a lot of good things in here that I can say, for example. what has been introduced here is to correct excessive use of multi-drug products. That's what I think might be difficult because the common registration system is not good enough, and there's, of course, reason that people can abuse the system, as alas too many people might. Of course, we all want to feel free to use any medicines, whether they are mental or pain killers. Therefore, I look forward to getting an answer to my query regarding the use of antipsychotics in nursing homes because this includes: This information should be available to all, and of course it should be available to all those who need to be employed, whether in aging homes or elsewhere. I also wanted to introduce myself to the fact that this is a talk about increasing the practicality and rationality of the use of drugs and pointing out what Sweden has been doing and that the medical centres, according to certain rules, will subsidize the products. They're looking at this a little bit from a financial side. Sweden provides a full list of prescribers with a list of medicines to be used, i.e. what medicines they should write to people. True, it is said that use of drugs will be maintained, but it is said that the savings that can become useful in other activities. Of course, this is also about the fact that people are not receiving medicines that they really don't need. There is also one here that may not have been discussed, on page 18. 4 on the safety and quality of the veterinary medicinal product. It is true that the same is true of humans. That's exactly where electronic registration needs to be improved. We also know that veterinary surgeons need huge areas, so we might consider whether farmers or others, whether they are farmers or others, can have access to certain medicines when even over a mountain road, and they cannot be approached in an acceptable way often. Of course, there is reason to call attention to the same thing. I realize there is a cumulative need in the system and it's been very long on the S-labelleds. I'm worried that once we look into financial plans, we're not ready again. The minister may correct me, it's hard to read through the financial program because we don't get the order on a project, i.e. what's meant in what, until the fall, but one of the things I find critical is that there are only a few committees here. Here are medicines and medicine, but nothing really about what is part of each project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u128	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much for a very good discussion. I'm going to try to answer a few of the questions that were addressed to me, and I'm going to come up with a few points as a matter of course. In their talks, members of Congress called attention. I want to reiterate what was presented in my answers to answers. paritaprevir In the past, Halldóra Mogensen, the reason why there is no deeper involvement in the pharmaceutical policy costs than in the general wording, is that the cost of the event and the availability of drugs depends on some extent on the financial resources and resources provided by the General Assembly. As we all know, resources to the pharmacy were approved by the General for Christmas by 2017. In view of the situation today, it is quite clear that it was highly underestimated, and that is why the government approved and entrusted me and the highest. The secretary of the budget is to take a specific look at these matters and to ensure that the necessary medication would be financed. That work's going on. That is why a point called a weakness in the 2017 budget or bases of 2017 is also considered when this category is being considered into the budget of 2018,2022. In fact, it is being taken into account this rising cost factor of the drugs, for despite the fact that you had thought, positive progress development, the costs of medication have not increased as much between years of high sir's time as they did last year. In the drug conference, below 1st, it is stated that work will continue with stakeholders aimed at maintaining the price of medicinal products in a moderate range and in line with the neighboring countries. Then the report, as my witness, says by permission of the president: It is essential that health authorities continue working to maintain the price of medicines comparable to those in neighboring countries. At the same time, an increase in drug costs due to population growth and the age of the nation is expected. It points to the need to look at the cost when it comes to the products involved in the budget. Before I've run out of time, I'm going to try to enter some points as long as I can. Senators have pointed out, and I want to thank you again for very good talks. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Yearsy noted the importance of drug interaction and, as it is said, adherence. These are often words that may not mean anything, i.e. how medicines work in patients with multiple diseases or complex diseases. This is often true in those who are older and who use many different medicines, so it is important to be careful that they do not work well together and that they do not go badly. Part of it is a seizure. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned in his speech, the need to improve information and a common electronic registration system. The good news is that we Icelanders have been able to go beyond most other countries in electronic registrations, we think I have a higher proportion of electronic prescriptions than the nations we are applying to. Other than that, improve the registration process, and hopefully improve the use of the necessary medication. It should also reduce the chance that medication may be incorrectly administered or incorrectly prescribed and that physicians have all information for the interaction of the medicines. Hv. paritaprevir The S. Brjánsson's God - fearing husband introduced the subject, which is an unusually high use of antipsychotic drugs and certain analgesics in Iceland. It is taken into account in the pharmaceutical convention that this need to be considered. You're right. One senator says, at times, the answer is a little thin about how this works. I refer to reports from the surgeon general's office and to the surgeon's Web, where these findings are being reviewed from the results of the use of antipsychotics, the office is looking into these cases. To some extent, this may depend on our being a small nation and on fashion or a particular emphasis being made in a small community. When we pick up new treatments, they'll know everything. This may be one of the reasons. It has also been said that we have again fallen into mental - health services and availability for other mental - health services. This may result in an increased tendency to prescribe drugs instead. As I say, and agree with what. A senator, it is important that we look at these matters in particular because when used properly and correctly, it can be a wonderful consumer business and just a security case when drugs are used or abused. In terms of a common purchase a few years ago. It is true that this is a long discussion. Icelanders may, on the other hand, have encouraged more cooperation in shopping and outlets and information when it comes to drugs, which are understandable to a small country, for a small system, to have as much perspective and to produce just as much as larger countries do. The good news is that these matters look to some extent. I was in a large circuit minister meeting with OECD in the winter where ministers from all nations, large, small, rich, poor, and most continents, agreed on the importance of improving cooperation in this. The Benelux countries have already come far, and as I mentioned in my background speech, it was agreed at the Prime Minister's Conference last week, where I attended a meeting with other health advisers, to set up a common area of the Northern States to work specifically on this matter. I allow myself to be optimistic, even though I realize that I am now in an awkward long line of health ministers in Iceland who have allowed themselves to be optimistic about these matters. Just before I run out of time, I'd like to agree with the idea here to consider the limited right of specially trained nurses and midwives to prescribe drugs, especially during childbirthal services. The idea of identifying the potential for selling certain goods in public stores is just about to be considered desirable. The idea is not to overthrow the nation's drug trade system but to see if this could be a way to improve its bioavailability. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you for your discussion and look forward to observing the case at the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u129	Madam President. It's going to be very short. I'm not interested in extending this discussion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there has been anything to do with the development of this policy or if it will enter somewhere else. I find it extremely important that we look for ways to reduce drug use by preventive measures. It can be done. Shouldn't it be in this direction? Or does it belong somewhere else? I'd like to hear from the Minister about that. Then I was surprised, there were some new information for me, when things happened. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttirs said that children could not get help or help, financial help, from rural society without being drugged. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it really...? [[Get an analysis.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u130	Get an analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u131	Get an analysis and that medicine? [[Up front.]] Not necessarily. But is something being done with rural society when such a drug policy is being made? Is there some form of collective view? I'm interested in the process behind this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u132	President. I appreciate the answer. I think the reason why policy prevention is not clearly under way is because the policy is a pharmacodynamic policy and is regarding the administration of the medicinal products, i.e. it when we need it or are going to use a medicine. But it's stated in the entrance here, as my witness, by permission of the President: ...the primary objective will be to ensure access to medicinal products, quality, efficacy and safety of medicinal product and reasonable and efficient use of medicinal products. It can be said that only there would be references to the guardians, although the policy lies primarily in the use of drugs. This is very important and is a point which is expected to be involved in the over-use of antipsychotics, i.e. The possibility of strong preventive measures. It has been spoken, e.g. for so-called motor acoustics, which are referred to as motorists, allowing people to maintain increased health in order to prevent disease and therefore prevent excessive drug use. In the context of the local community, there is a lot of conversation, although it does not come directly into the pharmaceutical conference where medical and medicine are used by the State. In particular, I would like to refer to the assessment of education without a separation that was taken out in Iceland by the European Institute and was recently provided with a very good report and a good job. The Ministry of Education, Health Ministry, Department of Health, both fields, and in cooperation with the European Union of Iceland is responsible for setting up a team of working men to work a plan based on this assessment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u133	Madam President. I don't have anything to say about it. I just wanted to come up once. But I thank you very much. A health minister for giving clear, satisfying answers and responding to all the comments that came from us in this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u134	Madam President. I wanted to take this opportunity to thank you as well. Parliaments and council members for a well - lit discussion. I think there's a lot of things going on here that's the best thing to do. a well - being committee in the coverage and is looking forward to sharing in this work with the Committee and the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u135	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis of a child protection strategy for the next district election in 2018. The Ministry of Ministry is responsible for child protection policies. Is the motion extended according to Article 5. child - protection laws, including tasks designed to work out the goal of the law to provide children who live under unsatisfactory circumstances, or to jeopardize their health or development at risk of the necessary and effective assistance. In the implementation of the programme, the Children's Health Authority shall have four main objectives: to develop child protection in the country, to promote child protection, to improve the ability, ability and knowledge of staff in child care and to ensure availability and access to measures based on cross-checked methods. The Ministry of Justice oversees the implementation of the programme, which was based on active and broad consultations with key stakeholders on the importance and priorities of projects. The program was made by a committee appointed to the Ministry of Health, Children's Health, the Union of Iceland, and Reykjavík. The proposals were also based on the Commission's advisory group appointed to ensure that as many views as possible would be taken into consideration by access and consultation with stakeholders. The proposal I recommend here today includes a third child protection programme of the State and sets out the most urgent tasks in this area. First, there is the establishment of a new treatment home in the capital area for youths with behavioral and substance problems. In the capital area, most of the young people who need such service live. Research has shown the importance of treating children in the closer environment in order to maintain and improve family relationships and manage the problems in the child's environment. By forming a treatment home in the capital area, there will also be an increase in the number of employees with appropriate professional training, thereby improving the quality of treatment protection in children, but it has been difficult to meet the requirements for treatment homes outside urban areas. The location of the new home in the capital area will then improve the availability of the necessary external expertise. In recent decades, there have been significant changes in child - welfare activities in Iceland. Child - welfare committees have declined, and the districts of the committees have increased. Special staff has grown, and professional work has been progressively supported. Thus, the implementation plan puts special emphasis on measures aimed at improving even more child - welfare practices and practices so as to be progressively based on scientific techniques and the best knowledge available. Thus, during the period of the implementation of the programme it is assumed that a method will be developed to assess in a systematic way the staff's work load in child protection. You will also continue to work on implementing a cross-checking and systematic assessment method and to coordinate and improve work to identify and treat abnormal behaviours in children. In addition, it is assumed that during the time period, the Children's Protection Agency will provide guidance on child protection guidelines on child safety priorities depending on severity in order to ensure that a child's or family crisis is in advance. Children's rights and their parents'child protection have been improved and increased their participation and cooperation. Thus, the Management Plan takes into account the United Nations Children's Convention or the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, as well as other international human rights Convention in Iceland. At the time of the implementation programme, efforts will continue to promote the PMS of child care, which aims to provide parents with training in support of parental skills, to reduce forced parenting techniques, thus to promote parents in their role of parenting, and to improve their relationship with children and parents. The programme also discusses the development of child care and child protection. It is emphasized, therefore, that certain measures in child protection based on scientific techniques should be improved and placed in place to ensure continued special service to children and families. These include the 1998 Children's House, set up to provide opportunities for the cooperation and coordination of institutions involved in child abuse. The main objective of the house is to lighten the load of children by reporting to children in child - care environments through the access of special staff in this field. Children's Ideas have drawn far beyond the cliffs, setting up an example for children in many lands. Children's activities have been under constant development in recent years, and for example, the special staff of the house now provides services on children who have experienced serious domestic violence. In addition, interviews are conducted with non-supervised children who have been requested international protection for the country. At the time of the implementation of the programme, an appointed task force is expected to initiate a full reexamination of child protection law, but it is time to consider whether the legislation and implementation of the legislation are consistent with the development of child protection. There is a large project that will take a long time and will not be over the duration of the implementation programme. It is therefore assumed that at the end of the first phase of its task, the staff will submit a report of the necessary changes in child protection in order to improve the activities of the Children's House as well as other government resources for child protection, such as MST multisystem therapy. This treatment consists of offering a child and a family holistic treatment and counselling in a household and in the daily environment of a child. The introduction of MST multisystem therapy on national level has reduced the application of child protection committees for saving children in the Children's Children's Family Homes. Research has shown that experiencing domestic violence can have serious consequences for children's development and health. In recent years, great and positive developments have occurred with a new approach and improved practice in domestic violence. Then the cooperation of police, social services, and child care in such matters has been established in many places. During the time period, it will be emphasized to ensure that children who have experienced domestic violence need for support and special service, and to establish a harmonizing procedure for child - bearing approach on domestic violence throughout the country. In recent years there has been an increase in the measures taken by children in foster care, and this increased demand has meant that in isolated cases a child has taken a long time to find suitable foster care, which can provide necessary care. The programme therefore suggests improvements in embryonic issues aimed at meeting the demand for foster parents and increasing the opportunity of foster parents and future foster parents for their role. V.E.G. President. I have come to explain the basic proposal for interpretation of the Children's Child Protection Programme for the next district election in 2018. So, I'd like to propose, sir. President, the proposal to be followed by this discussion referred to why. The welfare committee and the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u136	Madam President. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister. This operation programme is now required for only one year. I understand that under child protection programmes, these programs should be agreed on for four years. I don't quite understand why it's done this way. I understand that this is not an isolated situation, and the plan of action ahead also existed for a year or more than one year. I'm asking the highest. Minister of health whether or not he should abide by the law when such plans are being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u137	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's absolutely finished, we must obey the law, and the law requires that child protection policies be set between local elections. In itself, this strategy is late forward, but until the next district election, we should submit a new plan for these matters until the next district election. That explains the short duration of this strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u138	Madam President. Is it, therefore, the correct understanding that the law is such that it aims for a four - year strategy to be made from now on, must be made in between the elections of government? I want to know. Besides, I was thinking about something else. I understand that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Education are working on an anti-violence strategy. I wondered where that job might be and if it could be supported by the next action plan, which, hopefully, will be four years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u139	Madam President. It is true that policies are expected to apply to four years of age between rural elections, with a large proportion of child - welfare services being provided by the Child Welfare Services Committee, therefore it is considered normal to be in line with the terms of the terms of local government. This explains how this is going to be so, but it is certainly assumed that policy will be directly followed by rural elections and values for the next four years. About a question why. The senator's action plan against violence is that it is a just week, half a month, then four ministers resigned a new declaration of a non-violence program. Now it's working on a Senate resolution on the case that I expect to be held in the fall council. In any case, if she does, she may become very supportive of the next government programme on child protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u140	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister of well-being. I'm a big fan of the plan that's here. There are many fine, ambitious goals. I noticed that repeated reports say that the cost is contained within the welfare department's financial resources and twice the cost is said to be contained within the Children's Protection Agency's budget. Now all of us know that long - term financial shortages have compromised the function of the Children's Institutes of Children's Health and Child Welfare and made it very difficult for them to do professional and good work. I wondered if there are plans to raise funds to the Children's Institute and if we can see such information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u141	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the funding of the Child Protection Committee and the Children's Protection Agency need to be distinguished from the local community. As for the funding of the Children's Protection Agency, I simply think it's wrong to claim that it's a fiasco. I think the financing of the Children's Health Department was fine. Certainly it is so in all government business that there is always more to be done. But children's clinic has been able to care very well for the work she is assigned to do. In this course, there is one prime resort built to a new treatment center. It has been financed both in the cost of living and in the cost of operating. In addition, the Ministry has been ordering the Senate hearings like this, or granting the proposals that are to be carried out, so this strategy should be well funded.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u142	President. Thank you so much for the answers. Those were very clear answers. I'm going to ask another question: What is the cooperation of the Ministry with Reykjavíkurburg and other rural areas in the capital area with regard to this new treatment home? Is cooperation with the location and capital completely arrived? Is it in cooperation with the communities, or does the State completely finance it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u143	Madam President. It is the responsibility of the State to finance a new treatment home, and the funds have been assured and are already expected in the current budget and again in the five-year financial programme proposed. So it should not be a problem. With regard to my partnership with my rural society, I'm not going to tell myself that it's been three months at work, but all I've done is that it's good. I don't expect any more than that the location of this treatment area will remain good, but the next part of the program is to find that new place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u144	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for history, and would like to be thanked for this proposal. I'll admit I recognize some of its contents working on it in my time as social and housing minister. What I want to say here is that I think the proposal contains -- it may not be surprising--very practical suggestions as far as they reach. These are suggestions that, as mentioned earlier, work within this period of time is practical and have been financed. Once we've got a strategy into the council, we've often had financial support for the proposals, and they've been around the clock, but I believe it's a proposal that should be properly developed. What I wanted, however, to say here, hoping that a welfare committee would think that when it comes to working on this strategy, the project will begin to focus on the proposal 7, on a team's order for changes in child protection law. In a sense, that suggestion is a partial answer to a question. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen asking about the legislation involved in the Children's Protection Act and the Time frame that is inserted there, whether the strategy will be sufficient to fit in with the Minister's strategy in the seminary. There have been some indications from the National Reconnaissance that the Ministry needs to make significant improvements in policy measures when it comes to child protection, be more leading to the strategy, and that is one of the things I would have been interested in seeing to a greater extent the text of a strategy. When you read through the suggestions yourself, I think we can see specific emphasis, specific direction. We can certainly read the emphasis on supporting parents, the stress that child - welfare work is based on, as expressed in the Child Protection Act itself, that if appropriate, efforts should be made to achieve the goals of the law by strengthening families in their role of training and then taking steps to protect individual children. We'll see here that the PM services are being referred to. Another factor that we can see to a far greater extent and that has been very controversial about, for example. Norway, for example, is that when the situation is at home where parents have not been able to support their parents in their role of parenting, a plan for the fetus is better than a home. Here are some suggestions. There is talk of training and training for foster parents as well as the proliferation of foster parents. Then there is the introduction of proven embryonic methods. What I would have liked to have seen added, and it has to do with a certain extent the inquiry which I have directed to the minister and still wait for answers to that, d-about research about it, is to find out what will happen to the children after we have had to intervene. What is their outcome, and what is the result of the provisions we use? This suggests that the resources of the Children's Protection Agency will be checked in a certain way. This has been done in the multisystem therapy since 2008, but it should also be done here under the guidelines for the treatment of support and the Children's Institute for Children's Health. I would have liked to see that the same was true of foster parents. One of the things I would have wanted to see to a much greater degree is that we had set some overall standards, specific policies, or overall goals that we wanted to achieve with our emphasis on child protection. One of the things I asked, e.g. ... in my inquiry the subject is the one that is involved in the child's conduct of the Children's Health Organization, whether the child lives with parents or guardians who participated in the treatment they are offering, whether he has become involved in the law, and whether he is involved in learning or working. The Australian policy has e.g. It says that a standard of high school is whether a child graduated from the 10th grade, began high school, let alone graduate from high school. It tells us that we have been able to help our child cope with the trauma of their upbringing. Whether your child is at work if he is not in school, if he is not in school, as shown in the synod, abuse of alcohol, or other drugs, is determined, and so is the question of whether he is a victim of violence or a threat to violence. That's one of the things I wanted to mention especially. Both the data I studied in the processing of this case in Norway, which I know that Children's Protection Agency has looked very much like a great example and how it's worked, and since the way men have access to it in Australia, there is among the things I wanted to see here regarding a review of the Child Protection Act. This might lead us to try to watch the role of protecting our children as a far greater project than the routine that has to do with what we are looking at today in a very narrow position through the Children's Institutes of Child Welfare and Children's Health. Since we are supporting our children and families, reports such as Norway run through almost every system we have. They're talking about the health system. They're talking about the school system. The emphasis is that we all have a role, that we as a community are responsible for supporting our children. The chief aims of the Australian policy they were to present, with the permission of President, the National Framework for Protesing Australia's Children in 2009-2020, covers a slightly longer period than we are doing here, but they bring three years of projection that is based on these policies. The goal is that Australian children will be safe and comfortable. That's the primary objective. That's what we're going to do with this and that we're going to recommend it. By their actions, the misuse and neglect of children in Australia should be progressively reduced. This must be what we're doing when we're talking about child protection, the good measures here, and other things the government does in cooperation with the many parties. That's the thought behind this. The scales we are watching are: How are our children's health? What is their maturity? How do they feel? How do they say they feel? We are to examine hospitalisations of children at the age of three because it is, for example, the condition of children who are in hospital emergency departments at the age of three. If there is an increase in time, the signs that things are not all right. Of course, when we have confirmed reports to the Child Welfare Committee, all alarm alarms are to be set before us, and we want to see that we are working against it. It's a goal not to get it, we want to intervene before they have to use the child protection program. And one of the criteria is what is developing in children outside the home. Then came the Australians with a six - team policy that specifically speaks of the importance of considering families with certain risk factors. There's talk of domestic violence, just like here. It refers to alcohol or drug abuse and also to mental health problems as high - risk factors when it comes to neglect and neglect in families. I hope that by these suggestions, we can convey a clearer strategy from the Minister on what our aim is by suggesting this so that we can make sure that each child in Iceland is doing well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u145	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this. It was interesting to listen to a former social minister review this particular aspect of foster families and parents and to consider how we have been able to apply these tools in our life and how children have done so, whether they have completed elementary school or not. I find this very interesting because, unfortunately, we consider too little of what we're doing. Of course, when we have people as sensitive as these young ones are, young ones, we should be very concerned. I wanted to come into this discussion because there's a lot of good stuff here. I wondered before the minister mentioned why the plan was only one year old. It's getting bigger than the ones that make up within one year, though some time is set on the first part of the next year and most of what is being done here. I have to say, I'll be thrilled if we succeed in going through all the goals set here for the year's completion. Of course, it also explains why some of these are included in a plan; otherwise, if they had been in the long run. I want to talk about what was already started and is a new treatment center in the capital area. I'm not going to reduce the wisdom of setting up such a home where the number is greater and the need to use a variety of measures to solve the problems of these young people. I can't let it go by saying that we've had a waiting list for space for a long time, for years. I know that from a previous job. I'm sorry that the resources I think were there haven't been fully new. As a result, there is not enough service in the country to care for this. That is not to say that I am beinglittled by other methods that require trying to handle matters with the immediate family. But it is reported on both PMT services and MTS that they should be increased in the country by education more people. In fact, it is specifically stated that 16 professionals are attending PMT therapy and are scheduled to be released soon and that they should be added to three areas. Now, 20 agencies offer this support. I think it's odd that at the same time we've had a treatment home in these areas that could have attended e.g. in such special services, even not far from territory and such, if not used. I must say, this has led to disappointment. It is very beneficial to make good use of a variety of methods, as is suggested. Of course, we should make these changes right away if it is really so that we need to change the Child Protector Act in order to establish the World System Therapy (SST) for example. Or about the unaided children or such, if it needs to be guaranteed by law, we must change it the quickest. I certainly hope that it will not interfere with the services that these parties are needing today. It's also said that I like to create a response team for children's deadly deaths. Unfortunately, we lose too many young people in all kinds of situations that we would need some statistics about and maybe we know why they happen, so we could do as this suggests, react. I think it's very important. A financial program points out what is quoted in the family chapter on these young people whom we are discussing, where there is a recent investigation, by permission of a president: ▪ The position of young people with micro- or rehabilitation pensions shows that a large proportion of the group have received inadequate support in younger years, both at home and in school, and half of them have only completed primary school tests and 3% have not completed elementary school. Later, it is important to meet these challenges by strengthening basic services, strengthening prevention and early intervention, and increasing the need for mental - health care. What was the most interesting thing to do in this is that it says here: A child's relationship with mental and developmental disorders is characterised by a lack of overall vision as well as a lack of integration and cooperation, and a lack of service in certain fields. Then we know what the consequences are, including. increased scarring, etc. I find it interesting to see that after four years of independence, belonging to the present government, there has been no progress towards better conditions than this one. There is a great need for both vision, integration, and cooperation. It's depressing after so long, and after discussing these groups for so long that the situation is still the way it is, I don't talk about what we talked about just earlier, like with mental health and other things. However, as suggested next year, I feel that I have a good plan and a wide range of resources, which I hope we can control. I think it's high time for some action to take place. I think it's amazing that we didn't get to certain conclusions and we didn't have the resources to figure out. Maybe that's one of the things Iceland and I aren't good enough for, I don't know. As a small nation, we should be able to do this. It speaks of child - care approach in domestic violence, where it is important to ensure that appropriate attention is given to the rights and needs of children who witness violence in their homes as we establish the necessary support and specialized service of child - abuse practices in all child - care institutions. Now we have had a special campaign that was started not so many years ago and continued during our last terms. When the police were dealing with domestic violence and sexual abuse, they were being given special attention. You'd think it was supposed to follow. I don't feel like it's the whole thing that's missing. I hope that there will be one of the findings that this will be done on a collective basis, not that child - welfare committees will be alone on this project, but that they will simply be connected to the police so that domestic violence that will be reported to them will be the most direct route when people work a little together. There's been a defect on our system, and I also know from school, that as soon as you turn the cases to Child Services, the schools don't get to know what they're doing and what the result of the students is or the family. This is something we must resolve and cannot have locked up on the grounds of silence. If we're really going to talk about a complete approach, this is one of the things I think the Child Welfare Committees and the Lawgiver need to examine immediately on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u146	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal for an interpretation of a child - welfare strategy, a case that I think we all in this room are heartly agreeing that it is important and that we want to be very careful. It is written by the council resolution, and it was also published in the history of the Supreme Court. Minister, that this strategy will take into account the UN Convention on Child Rights, the European Council's Convention on Protecting Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Misuse, as well as other international human rights contracts made by Iceland. I'm kind of giving myself one of those other international human rights contracts that Iceland is a member of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People. I would have thought it very good to list him here, too, because we've just validated this deal at the Council. However, it is still a little new for us, both as a community and also new for the General as legislator when it comes to having these issues, i.e. On the issue of disabled people and the objective of the UN Convention, our discussion on all matters, whatever. That's why I kept silent because I think it's important to repeat it. In terms of MST multisystem therapy and Children's House, says, by permission of the President: In 2016 the Ministry of Children's House of Health gave 3 billion to the Ministry of Children's Health. K. contributes to strengthening research and treatment when a disabled child is suspected to be violent. I like it very much. The fact that disabled children are mentioned here is extremely important because, unfortunately, disabled children are at increased risk of using any form of violence. I wondered, " Could I have considered mentioning disabled people in other places in the text? ' I would like to speak in support of the 23rd paragraph. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, which deals with respect for home and family matters. It is directly involved in this synopsis proposal. To 23. Article 1, says, with permission from the President: The Member States shall take effective and appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against disabled persons in all matters of marriage, family, parenthood, and relationships, in the same way as others, in order to ensure that: So says Step 4 on page 23. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Member States shall ensure that a child is not taken from his parents against their parents'will, unless it is decided by the competent authority, in advance of a review of the Judicial Authority, and in accordance with current legislation and treatment, that such separation is necessary in the child's best interests. A child should never take away from his parents because of the disability of the child or another parent or both. This is particularly related to what is discussed in the B team, chapter 3, called the Guideline Information Guideline on Reporting, which discusses the automatic need for a child protection report, but is required by a child protection committee, which receives each report to assess the content of this report on the basis and to decide if an action should be undertaken. So I agree completely. I'm not criticizing this point, but I believe that there is a need to strengthen or consider that in other places, the ability of disabled parents to care for their children and also to increase the knowledge of the Children's Health Committee at both the contracts and the circumstances of disabled children and disabled parents. This is equally true in section 7 of the C team, the ship for changes in child protection. There I think it would be especially important not only when the staff has been appointed but also when it comes to consulting the law to have a contract made by the United Nations as one of the things taken into account and how to guarantee the rights of both disabled children and disabled parents. The support that disabled parents receive from the government can be so immensely important in how they are helped to raise their children in our complex, technologically advanced modern society. This I think can be done, and not just that, but that we are under obligation to do it because we have validated the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I thought this was a point that was very important to be included in this discussion. Because they are not directly referred to the UN Convention on the disabled people, I felt that they had to mention their name here in the discussion. Otherwise, I want to join in celebrating the good indications that have happened to other people. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. It has been very helpful and interesting to watch. I am absolutely convinced that together we can make a pretty good plan when it comes to child protection in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u147	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator very much for the tip. I think it's very important. There are studies that have pointed to a number of times when disabled children are at greater risk of abuse, violence, sexual abuse. This is a major risk factor. That is why at one time I felt that this convention was just as important to teach those involved. But I would also have liked to see, as I mentioned, regarding clear policy that we had done, for example. as they do in Australia, offering six suggestions for emphasis and one of them had been what we were going to do in particular to disabled children we know are at greater risk. One of the projects that have been going on in Norway, which is of particular interest, is about supporting the parents of disabled children. We know how large the disability can be, and special parents are carrying out very difficult tasks. It may be easy to lose self - control in this regard, not knowing how to cope with the challenges that may arise. They offer courses that are focused on supporting them. That's one of the things I'd like to see coming in there. I think this is very important for them to bear in mind that the law is being revised, that it is very clear, and that it is more repeated in the Children's Protection Act. Then there is the natural covenant, and the covenants that we have made valid here should be to work on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think this is a good suggestion to make a plan of some kind or to do more in terms of the increased risk of child abuse in disabled children. Like a snooze. A senator referred to a number of tests. There have been studies in Iceland, but many foreign studies show that this is the case, unfortunately. It's certainly not too long since we were here in a special discussion to discuss the report on the Kopavogs bin. There is something that happened in the past, but unfortunately, disabled children are in an increased danger of becoming violent, and it is not just in homes, it is everywhere in the community, in the school system, in the leisure system, and in many institutions. This is something we need to think seriously about right here and now. I think it is important to support and train parents of disabled children, but I think it is equally important to support and educate all the others working with disabled children, just because we want disabled children to be members of society in exactly the same way that all other children do. Then all who come to be raised and treated with them also need to be aware that this is a special risk factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u149	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the answer. I think it's something I'd like to encourage, and I'd like to agree with the senator that a health committee would particularly consider this and take a clear view of it on the sort of case. This should truly be one of the key things to consider when it comes to revising the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u150	Mr. President. I'll take my heart to that. The welfare committee considered this and added and strengthened this chapter. I would like to reiterate that it is also those of the local community who accept announcements or those who are actually involved in child protection at any level. For those who are on the Children's Health Committees for smaller rural communities, where the approach can be intense and therefore difficult when sensitive issues arise, education in the United Nations Convention is also crucially important, so that they know what to be more alert to, what it takes to guard against prejudice, e.g. With disabled parents, of course, there is always the child's best interests and safety. This can be a bit complicated, and this certainly is not the knowledge that people are born with, so I think that government policy means a huge deal. In fact, it should be kept in mind that this factor may require money, i.e. Education, it can lead to financial evasion. But I think they would surely pay off, especially if we could reduce the likelihood of a child's right, whether to a disabled or to a disabled parent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u151	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a very helpful discussion on this important subject. At the end of the discussion, I want to respond only to the indications that have been presented and are all very helpful. It is quite true that the course, and I hope that my career predecessor recognizes policy, is certainly in every fundamental basis for the job started in its Minister's reign, and I assume that it can support most of the things it shows. But it is just so important that we are in policy measures, both now and then, to support the more fundamental changes in child protection involved in providing services in close environments, to use as mild measures as possible in the position, instead of counseling where possible, under any circumstances. Of course, it is of utmost importance that we continue to work that way. We can see that doing so brings us remarkable results and very good results. We see that the use of burdensome measures, such as saving in a clinic, has been greatly reduced. On the contrary, there is much more to resort to other means of service and to the child in its surroundings. That's extremely important. I want to agree with what. A senator's concern is that we develop standards of success, that is, of course, what this is all about. We intervene where necessary. There we must be very carefully observing that our intervention and new options will lead to real success in the affairs of our children and that we will continue to support them in life. This is of great importance, and I think that there's a great need to be made, even as it is in the context of sharpening government surveillance, as has been repeated in this regard, to state reexamination, and to work within the Ministry to change the motion of these matters so that there will be a significant improvement in monitoring, both in these important issues, in child protection, and no less when it comes to the affairs of the disabled. When it comes to the discussion of treatment homes and special home care in the country and practicality, the development reflects to a degree the focus being made, the service of their children in their close environment in all situations where possible. This means that these measures have been less used, i.e. saving, in the country, and considered less relevant than in earlier times when it was considered an advantage to take a child out of its environment, to remove it from its present situation, and to save it far away from home. In fact, here the emphasis is completely upside down. It is not unusual to see the process developed. Therefore, it is extremely important to build a treatment home in the capital area, in order to sharpen and enhance our ability to handle matters there, as well as to promote other counseling measures that we have, and to apply them more fully and more, and to apply them nationally, which are of all importance. I'd like to agree with the discussion on the importance of a complete approach in these issues. That is where our mental - health issues are so important that we need and are about to improve. The same can be said of the emphasis on child - bearing approach in domestic violence. All can imagine the shock a child feels when he sees violence in his home. Sadly, it is only in recent years that you begin to look especially at how your child's interests are viewed, how you can get your child out of the situation immediately when the police come into your home, discuss with your child. The importance of talking to the child immediately during this intervention, i.e. ... policecomein thehouse, they've shown themselves. It is often the only window to achieve this conversation, and it closes quickly, in many cases at least, and it is important to provide advice and to offer further service. Such efforts have proved effective, but we need to develop this strategy from being some kind of initiative in being a standard-based, national response. Finally, I would like to agree with the discussion when it comes to the child protection and rights of disabled persons. There I can agree with every word that has been said. We know that when it comes to these matters, when it comes to the danger of child abuse, the need to be violent, the violation of their rights, there is a high risk of child abuse. It is of utmost importance, and I support my whole mind to a health committee that had particular look at it, and I give it a lot of emphasis that we review child - welfare laws will be seen at the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, especially disabled children in this context. That's where we're all still learning. We've entered the contract. We are always increasingly aware of how much fundamental change it involves for the approach we have to this group of subjects, the constant importance of the right to the independent life we know, and the need to realize that it will cost us in various areas, but it is an unbreakable part of our commitments to implementing the contract. You can always see better and better how important it was and how important it is to continue in legalizing the resources of the contract. Once again, I want to thank you for an extremely good and useful discussion. I'm sure she's the best person in the welfare committee for the discussion there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u152	V.E.G. President. I recommend the opinion of the greater part of the General and Education Committee in case 236, the bill for a change in the law of foreigners. The committee's first reference work identified who came as guests at a meeting of the Committee and what reviews were received. I refer to what is said in the opinion of it. This article will consider the subject of the bill as discussed here, pointing to the fact that on the other hand the bill represents a continuation of the right effects of certain U.S. National Institutes of England and, on the other hand, the provision of the bill is to explain Article 35. and 70th par. The law. The committee's opinion says: With 1st stil. The bill is presented with a change to 35. The law, which stipulates the implementation of decisions on international protection or protection from persecution. In 1st. Thirty-five. says that the decision to leave the country for international protection is generally not to be carried out until it is final at the administrative level unless you want to leave the country yourself. The bill suggests a change in 2 mg. the one measuring for exceptions from the principle 1 mg. It is suggested that in the case of evaluation of the applicant's application for international protection, the decision of the National Institute of Iceland is not to be correct and it comes from a state in which the Agency is listed as a secure state, dr. b- team 1.mg. 2 mg. Twenty-nine. foreign shapes. It is recommended that the regulations of the 3rd mg be executed. Thirty-five. that a minister may in a judicial capacity recommend the judicial hearing of the non-surgents to waive a request for a continuation of proper action, as this is considered unnecessary. With 2 st. The bill is proposed to eliminate the condition of 2nd. 70 C. The law that marriage needs a general period of one year or more in order to become a basis for the granting of a reservation. The bill's report shows that the terms of the law on time should only be taken into account. The management of the case in the Committee discussed a large increase in candidates for international protection in this country, which was about 1,100 in 2016. The bill's report shows that some 60% of candidates were found to come from safe countries, mainly Macedonia and Albania. Their applications are unfounded otherwise, but such applications are generally rejected. The growth of unfounded applications has increased the pressures of the entire security system and, at the same time, increased the financial cost. The majority of the following notes that it is important that governments take action aimed at reducing the number of unregistered applications from secure countries to speed up the treatment and to improve the effectiveness of application procedures for international protection. The majority, however, stress that such measures do not reduce the security of candidates for international protection. The committee continues to state: ▪ The more part points out that the bill's continuation of corrective effects is a physical consistent provision that was added to the new alien law while enforcing it on January 1, 2017, by law No. 124/2016, but the law delayed V.U. 2 mg. and 3 mg. Thirty-five. The law to April 1st, 2017. In the treatment of the Commission bill, the implementation of the provisional principle was discussed. It came to the opinion that it is unclear whether the NTSB may address a request for an extension of the proper effect, granting such a request to the Commission, and whether the decision not to postpone a court order to the Committee has been called upon. Sv. 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Government law is a general rule that a higher power of government is permitted to postpone the legal effect of a charged decision during treatment for which grounds are recommended. 3 mg. Twenty-nine. Government law states, however, that this rule does not apply where laws differ. In 1st. The bill does not clearly state that principle 2. Twenty-nine. administrative laws are not valid. Thus, the majority suggest a change in the bill in which it is stated to the NTSB's request for a delay in the right effect on the decision of the National Institute of Iceland, or a charge to determine that the Commission does not delay the right effect, should be referred to as such. In the treatment of the case, the Committee also discussed when it is evidently an unfounded application and government authority to support the list of states generally viewed as safe from ethnic states. b- team 1.mg. 2 mg. Twenty-nine. The majority of the reasons why all applicants for global protection are given an individual and careful treatment with all the information available on each subject. For the Committee, it was concluded that despite a change suggested with 2 st. The bill refers to the terms 1st. 70 C. The law still applies to marriage and living as well as to conditions for the granting of a resuscitation as required by the arrangement. The majority therefore contributes to a change in Figure 1. 70 C. so that it is clear that marriage should be kept for more than one year, but this does not apply to marriage. The majority suggest that the bill be adopted with the following adjustments - which are then attributed to the Senate document. Under the committee, this publication is addressed here, ostensibly. Councilmen Nichole Leigh Mosty, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Eygló Harðardóttir, Óli Björn Kárason and Pawel Bartoszek.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u153	Mr. President. I am quite concerned about the laws here. In fact, I agree with a smaller part of the General and Education Committee to change the wording of marriage and to take out the timeliness that somehow managed to infiltrate by error in the current alien law. On the other hand, I am quite worried that this arrangement that has been developed for some time will reduce the security of candidates for international protection. It has already been. I don't think it's a perplexing reason to reduce the rights of the shelterer on the basis of increasing, as it puts it, the non-founded applications have increased the pressures of the entire security system and, at the same time, the increase in government funds and this includes cutting down the rights of citizens from a safe state. I'd like to ask you what. more than one piece of history. The majority of opinions indicate that during the treatment of the Commission bill, the implementation of the provisional principle has been discussed and that there is an opinion on what is used to evaluate national security, as to what aspects are used to determine whether applications are clearly unashamed. However, these opinions were not at all fully established in the Committee, especially in the evaluations of the National Institute of Iceland, to conclude that an application is clearly unrecognizable and has the Red Cross. According to the opinion that an application is clearly unfounded, it is enough for a person to be from a so - called secure state to be placed in equal balance. Has a what? Don't you worry that this area loses the rights of refugees who attend here and that they will be sifted out on the grounds of their nationalities, which we know is a violation of international law? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u154	V.E.G. President. The short answer to this is to assume, and as far as I believe I have information about it, applications are individually assessed, but of course it matters when such a situation is taken into consideration whether it is a state both in the country and in the neighboring countries that are considered a secure state, that is important. However, it is a matter taken into consideration on an individual basis. What this change involves, however, makes it possible for a foreign institution to decide, but it is possible to dismiss those who are supposed to be applied without having sufficient grounds before it. I think there will be a way to shorten the time of treatment or to shorten the time that the individual is in this country as takeaway people quite seriously, allowing us to respond better to those applying for refuge on more reliable grounds. It's a warrant. I don't think there's any reason to expect it to be abused. I don't think there's any reason to believe that this will lead to your passport alone being the standard that will be laid on that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u155	Mr. President. I can't agree with this because we have an opinion, we have a review from the Red Cross of Iceland that tells us about the implementation of this directive that a person comes from a so-called secure source and that a person has clearly submitted an unsatisfactory application. This is of great concern if the nationalities of individuals do not get the right to charge the legal effects of the decision of the National Institute of Iceland, especially in the light of the changes made by a greater part of the General and Education Committee, which suggests that the legislation will be added to the following, by the permission of the President: ...receiving a request for an extension of a legal effect on the decision of the National Institute of Iceland or a charge to decide not to delay the right effects of the Commission, the Committee should refer to this issue. This makes me feel that what comes most dangerous to me is what comes from then on. More than a part of the General and Education Committee, that includes all estimating power from the Commission of Foreign Affairs to act if it becomes known that the National Institute of England misuses its power, it is possible to move people abroad to an assembly of some kind on the grounds of nationalities. It is true that many of these countries are generally safe. However, some of them can be said to be members of a certain minority group to fit in with the United Nations Convention on Refugee Rights. So I'm really worried that I'm not fully aware of how the Foreign Institute of Iceland clearly considers unfounded applications, comments from the Red Cross of Iceland, and then this transition from the greater part of it. I'm asking why. The author of the majority opinion whether he is not concerned about the possibility that this could lead to our breaking of the rights of our most vulnerable candidates. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u156	V.E.G. President. I don't share their concerns again, and I'm not showing them that case is being reviewed by more than just your country or passport, so to speak. When a foreign agency makes a decision on the subject, it is based on a study that we, of course, demand to be on objective grounds. There is no general dismissal of the lawsuit, but it is assumed that the charge of this particular decision is removed, the possibility that the change would not achieve its purpose unless the possibility of such a decision was taken. The idea behind this is, of course, that if an observation by the National Institute of Iceland indicates that an unfounded application is possible, it will be possible to dismiss those who apply for asylum on such grounds. I think it's a concern that this evaluable authority of the U.S. National Institute will be abused without cause. We must bear in mind that international laws and rules in this area assume that people can apply for protection or shelter on certain grounds. It is not a universal dish but must have specific conditions for humans to take advantage of. [[The president calls.]] In spite of this change, I think we would respond to their viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-04-54.u157	Mr. President. I stand here as a messenger of the minority opinion and education committee on bill for the legal adjustment of the alien law of delaying the proper effect. I may say a few words about the international commitment involved, which is a United Nations refugee Convention, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights. In fact, the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights could also be adopted, which, unfortunately, grants the total ill - protected right to leave its country and to go free through the world, which is not the real world today. What lies ahead for us now is that the Icelandic state does not see how to handle the rights of over a thousand people who are looking for international protection and therefore feel the need to restrict the rights of the individuals coming here as the Icelandic state has decided not to have worthy applications for international protection on the basis of the source of the individual being, because we are not prepared to contribute much money to this category, despite the fact that Europe and the whole world are at this moment going on if it is not one hundred or a thousand times that we are dealing with here in terms of refugees, protection and treatment of them. I think it's kind of awkward, Mr. President, that we should look for ways to impair the rights of those who apply for international protection only to save money and save time, instead of properly entering this seminar, rather than to the highest degree. A government can hold on to the big words and accept more refugees and think about how best to accept those who seem to be from so - called safe ethnic states, which I may come in more detail when I begin to study our committee opinion in the memory of the section. The principles found in refugee rights that are especially based on the United Nations refugee agreement are very important, but they have been violated and are breaking down in Iceland. There are regular cases in the media, which I have seen to myself as advocates of some refugees in Iceland, whose rights are very gravely violated by refugees, both in terms of the right of justice but also in the general right of their public right to live with human dignity when they come here for refuge. I believe this change here is no exception at all. I think it's morally reprehensible to represent this legal bill, since I think we can do much better in refugee matters than we do now. I think it is unnecessary to restrict the rights of those whom we have decided on the basis of their ethnic background that they are not worthy of the normal treatment here. A panel of parts of the General and Education Committee will appear, with the permission of a president: The use of unfounded applications has added stress to the entire security system and, at the same time, to raise the financial cost. The majority of the following notes that it is important that governments take action aimed at reducing the number of unregistered applications from secure countries to speed up the treatment and to improve the effectiveness of application procedures for international protection. The majority, however, stress that such measures do not reduce the security of candidates for international protection. Mr. President. We have no real signals, and we have not received the proper assurances from either the Foreign Institute or Foreign Affairs Committee for Foreign Affairs, that such measures are an emphasis on reducing the applicant's security of international protection. The points that the Foreign Institute, or Foreign Authority, was required to evaluate which state should be counted as a secure state according to the standard to be used here to dismiss the people sooner. The information received by the Committee was extremely poor and with the conditions set out on the website of the Foreign Institute of Iceland, which the one being fully aware of, but is not at all satisfied with the fact that the National Institute of Iceland makes a cool assessment of each country and considers the specific points to be considered on a national level. Each of the so - called secure states is considered individually, to be safe for the individual. We know, for example. that in some former Eastern states, being in so - called mixed marriages can be very dangerous, and people can be persecuted for this. I can't see that the Foreign Institute or the Authorities or the legislatures allow no room for this, which things need to be especially looked at when it comes to individuals. This is of greater concern when it comes to the statement of the Red Cross that during the implementation of these laws, people came from a so - called secure state, which I think sounds like the meaning of a food pack rather than something that is relevant to the origin of people who are concerned, and that they feel they have applied for international protection, which is apparently a failure on the basis of the fact that the individual comes from a safe source, so to see, ethnic background. Of course, this is disturbing, the highest. The president, and especially in view of the fact that the committee has not received proper information that this is not the case, although it was requested. Similarly, in this case it may be true that a business committee of foreigners could not, in any way, intervene if it appears that the Foreign Institute has overindulged, has made a decision too early, or has based on illegal views, when it decided that a statement was evidently unprovable, as they call it, and therefore cannot decide to postpone the rightness of the decision. This is dangerous in my opinion because the basic principle of refugee rights is, and this is what the United Nations Refugee Organization has repeatedly claimed, and this is also what we think in the lesser part of the General and Education Committee, that it is generally not to be referred to as one of the countries until the final stages of the administration, i.e. Until the final decision has been made on the administrative field, in contrast to this proposal, which is, after the first administrative level, the lawgiver may even have had to dismiss people from the country after the rejection of the Foreign Institute. This is, of course, on the contrary to the recommendation of the United Nations Refugee Agency as well as on the contrary to the recommendations of the Red Cross of Iceland and other organizations that are concerned with refugees. I think in these last and worst times, when we've never seen such a huge flow of refugees go around the world, pathetic that we're here trying to find ways to avoid taking over a thousand plus souls who look out at the prom sea only for protection. I find it amazing that we don't have character in ourselves in order to welcome them, welcome them, and give them the treatment they deserve. That concludes my lecture or lecture. I'm going to turn my songs into a cross and face the opinion of the committee that we've proposed in our smaller parts on this matter, but it's a committee's opinion of change. The commission says, with permission of the president: ▪ The Minister of Justice, Article 328, aims at two modifications to the law on foreigners, No. 80/2016. The first is to establish the provision of a preliminary law which was added to the laws of Article 1. track No. 124/2016 of the change in foreigners agreed on by the Council on December 22, 2016. This law includes the fact that the application of exodus to a foreigner who has applied for international protection does not delay its rights if the Foreign Institute has clearly assessed the application unrecognised and the individual comes from a state on the National Institute for Security. The second change is due to 2 mg. 70 C. track No. 80/2016 had made the mistake of marrying and living together as an equal requirement for responsibly applying in terms of time. Since it is clear that there was no need for the Lawgiver to turn aside from a previous project, it is suggested that the length of the paragraph applies only to living together. The lesser part supports the change as 2 g. the bill includes, but it shows that it is necessary to determine whether the directive has affected the applications of some individuals and even leads to evaporationalization of the application on the basis of a less than a year's marriage contract has been rejected. If so, of course, justice should be done to those who experienced it as soon as possible. Mr. President. If not, it is a sign of how the government in Iceland views the citizens of this country where, on the other hand, the lawgiver's will can be viewed rather than the law code, e.g. what was involved in the rights of the nursing staff to the decline of social security, that should be in harmony with the lawgiver's will, but when it comes to the actual will of the alien resident, where the infatuated people marry, who are of their nationality and who want to live here, they are not allowed to come out of some law code that is apparently contrary to the lawgiver's will, and it would not have been a very important matter to ask for whether or not. This is just an indication of the position the State has in protecting itself from its own systems and not from its own citizens and their rights. I hope this is going to be an investigation of the quickest, and if this has happened, if people were to be denied the rights in this country or dismissed on the grounds of this evil error in the law, they should correct it as quickly as possible. I also believe it is normal for a public apology to follow. The minority opinion continues, with permission of presidents: The animal part is against material 1. The bill, and it strongly opposes its approval. The rationalisations against the contents of this article and its impact on the applicants on global protection are clearly explained in Iceland's Red Cross reviews of the bill, as well as in the comments of Iceland's Police Association and No Borders Iceland. The memory part should take full consideration for the comments of these individuals and the indication of defect 1. g. The bill. It should be stated that the idea of a so - called, secure state is more doubtful and not solidly based, especially when it comes to the affairs of various minorities in the countries in question. By applying this appeal to the state's security, and using it to send people out of the country without any recognising treatment, they are actually being rejected, on the basis of state, by evaluating applications of large groups of candidates for international protection. It will thus be the applicant's passport, which determines whether or not he or she is being heard in the case rather than in the circumstances of the person. The lesser part strongly contradicts both the art of the states, as it is implemented and its use in the context of foreigners. The direction of the majority of the countries that instead of ◯ safe countries to stand, there is no difference in the loss of the share on the law. In the case of the Commission it was a view that the requirements for appeal did not delay the right effect would be used only if the applicant is from a state of safety (U.S.A.) and the I.A. assessment of the application to be currently unrecognizable. However, there were insufficient data on the Agency's assessment details to determine if the applications for global protection are clearly unrecognizable. In my opinion, these laws are not sufficient to ensure adequate protection from candidates for international protection. Therefore, the terms put the government at risk that their implementation can violate the basic rights of refugees, i.e. Resurrection no more.◯ Here, too, the European Court of Human Rights has a comprehensive judgment story in these matters and I consider it to be a greater part of the General and Education Committee to study the issues and to see if they do not reach any other conclusion, but they find out by their change and by their majority benefit. I'm going to finish this minor opinion, with the permission of a president, but it also states: It is very important that the decision of a government like the National Institute of Iceland to be accepted so that such persons do not gain sovereignty in the affairs of the candidates for international protection, which would violate Icelandic law and international commitments and, of course, put themselves at risk that people who have applied for protection would be sent out of the country in circumstances that could prove to be dangerous and were the reason for their flight here. They plan to drop or impair candidates' chances of global protection to point the conclusions to a higher authority of Article 1. the bill is a prescription for unacceptable treatments and may also result in violation of human rights. In addition, the smaller part is considered to be that no one should make a decision for the security of candidates for international protection other than that individual interests and positions are individually evaluated. The smaller part believes that it must not be removed from the principle that governmental decisions are indictable and that once every month the result of an act of justice is spontaneous until the final decision is established. The smaller part doesn't think it's possible to accept the bill as it already is, and suggests the following change: 1st par. put it this way: Thirty-five. The law says: The decision to make a candidate for international protection by 36, 37th, or 39. leaving the country is not an option until the decision is final at the administrative level unless you yourself wish to leave the country. Under this minority opinion, the one here is writing, okay? paritaprevir Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. Brjánsson, who is an audience officer of the United States, who is also acceptable to this view. Finally, I'd like to state that although a person who has applied for asylum and was rejected by the Foreign Institute and his application was apparently considered unfounded and that he comes from a so - called secure state, the right to charge that decision is wrong and often useless if he is to dismiss that person from a foreign land. It's very difficult, Mr. President, to take advantage of his court of law, to run his case at a higher level, to get himself out of Icelandic lawyers, to communicate with him, especially in a dangerous situation in their own country. This is simply not controlled; it cannot be compared to sending people out of the country so that they can work against the first level of government in the country that they chose to flee from getting a full court order to another government level, which is the treatment of foreigners. I have to say, I'm very sorry that this is the general development of the justice system in Iceland and the lawgiver's will. I had high hopes for the cross - political cooperation that took place in the development of new foreigners, and I must say that new foreigners were a real disappointment to me. They were introduced to me at their early stage, determined to find them, as I was quite associated with the work of protecting refugees and the rights of refugees here in the country since 2014. I was invited to a meeting of the transnational Parliamentary commission to discuss this matter and to introduce me to new foreigners. They filled me with hope. I thought this was finally going on radical, beautiful, and human love changes in the justice system in Iceland, in the way we treated the trustees and refugees in this country. But the law as it is presented today, and the alien law as it was approved was a source of great disappointment. I feel like they're incompetent. I feel that they lack compassion and empathy. I think they sound stingy when we do this. I'm tired of it, Mr. President, and I wish we were more humane at this council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
