ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u1	Madam President. There is a proposal from a smaller part of the General and Education Committee involved in the granting of the Commission clear evidence that we will accept only this new level of justice meets the laws of equality from the first day. There is a requirement for a legal equality law, something that has taken particularly two times in the text of the laws currently indicated to change. Similar regulations and smaller items were suggested at their time in paragraphs 9 and 11. The law to make the Lawgiver's will clear on specific points. Now, we are to use this opportunity to demonstrate in a clear and decisive way that the legislator's will is to succeed in implementing the national rights as in our proposal in a smaller section of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u2	A respectable president. The following issue focuses on the appointment of judges in a new interjugation phase. The Law of a new interjugation was approved here during the last term in the broad favor of all classes. The current legal adjustment is required by the minister to enable the Commission to suit candidates for a state-of-the-state judgment status and the Supreme Court to take a position on candidates for a judge's standing at the National Court. At work on the bill, it was concluded that the sex ratio to a new court should be balanced and reflected in the opinion of smaller parts and the change in the ratings. The Assembly Hall of Endurance shares the vision given there. However, both Justice Ministers and more of the General and Education Committees should be able to ensure that equality laws cover the whole process. We believe that the current legal mask is adequate, so we'll vote for less than the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u3	A respectable president. I must agree with each word. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and at the same time declare my frustration over words. paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszeks, since I believe that the adjustment in my section will be fine with the Treaty Review, the bright future, and the Independence Party. That includes, by permission of the president: A far - reaching sense of justice is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. Similarly, the Bible says: ▪ Trust must be built on the foundation of society, including the Generals and Justices. Here, we have a golden opportunity to secure and respect the city's confidence in the court's authority by ensuring its diversity. I encourage everyone. Councilmen in this room to vote for the change in the memory of the object in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u4	Madam President. Sometimes it is spoken as if the law of equality gives the opposite sex a advantage regardless of what is appropriate. I also remind you that if the situation is that two or more candidates are equally qualified, they will not be the first to consider. Yet, hearing has been heard, and it has been claimed that the courts are judicial laws and that equality laws do not take part in the order of the judges. Therefore, the Group of Congress has the right to post this in order to eliminate any doubt. So we'll vote with the change in the memory of the object.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u5	A respectable president. Words go. paritaprevir While Paulels Bartoszeks came from the category of equal justice ministers, I was surprised by his surprise. I'll let it work to describe how I feel about that statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u6	A respectable president. This little vote now will be symbolic. It will be symbolic for the real importance of equality between each member of the body. Now it is important that members of Congress vote according to their convictions as to whether it is important to be said when there is a reason for equality. We have here, what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and others, short - lived it well, with reference to the legislator before, with reference to what has been previously said, and especially with reference to the fact that unfortunately, strong voices within the Independence Party have spoken against the fact that there is always a need for equality. I'm afraid that this vote is at the expense of the Independence Party's rearm. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u7	Madam President. The Constitution of the Constitution begins to swerve various fundamentals of balance, vision, and so forth. Soon afterward, the lessons that humans choose will come in for a fixed priority. Chapter 1 includes health matters, rightly, 90% of the population. Number two are Social Security and other welfare groups. After that, there is equality. It didn't take long, but now people are submitting to the independence party's will not to have an equal policy with those in the litigation categories in which the Independence Party does not wish to have equality policies. It's good, then, that's what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u8	Madam President. Since changing Pirata's proposal did not succeed, the bill is now in the 3rd district. ...we're in the courts. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Foreground on: the courts.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u9	A respectable president. I explain my vote in the matter of national rights, to be clear, and I want to reiterate what has been stated before that I view all of us in this hall, including you, ow. Councilmen who did not accept the adjustment proposal of a smaller part of the General and Education Committee will agree that the National Court should reflect the community, it should be set up as men and women. If the process that now takes place within the Ministry of Justice does not produce that conclusion, we are to attend. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-35.u10	Madam President. Right place, right time now. We're paying a vote for a social security bill change that involves recovery activity because Pirata suggested removal of feedback was not approved. This law now applies since January 1. Then I will vote against the bill as it stands; though I agree that this is corrected, I do not approve of recovery and will vote against it.
